ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e1263	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to welcome you and ask you to take the places. I'll open the 121. Meeting of the National Council. The Official Protocol of the 119. Meeting of 12. In May 1998, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. Members Dr. Hazelsteiner and Dr. Hlavac are reported to be prevented for today's meeting. The term of office shall be replaced by the
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e1300	==References====External links== In May 1998 the communication was received by Mr Magistrate. Schreiner did not exercise his mandate. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e1321	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e1429	Deputies Mag. Before entering the agenda, Stadler and comrades have asked for the self-employed request of the honourable Member at the same time. Stadler and colleagues on relations between politics and Russian mafia are urgently to be dealt with. For the purposes of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, this urgent request will be discussed at 3 p.m. Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e1454	Before entering the agenda, I shall also inform Mrs Magistrate. Stoisits has requested the Constitutional Committee to report to it on the application 773/A concerning a federal law amending the Broadcasting Act, a period of time until the 25. May this year to sit. In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 43 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure proposed that a short debate be held on this request for a time limit. In view of the request for urgent procedure for today's sitting, the short debate will take place following the negotiation of the urgent request and the vote on the request for a deadline will be taken after the deadline debate has ended. Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (1100 and 1100 of the Supplements): Federal Finance Act for the year 1999 and Investments (1160 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e1481	We are now going into the agenda. The item on the agenda is the report of the Committee on Budgets on the 1100 Government Template and 1100 of the Supplements: Federal Finance Act for the year 1999, including investments. Does the rapporteur-general wish to speak on behalf of the rapporteur-general? - That's not the case. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e1508	It is my proposal that the debate should be conducted in accordance with previous practices so that general budgetary policy issues can be discussed in connection with the consultative group II, and I am in favour of continuing to do so in the course of the procedure which has proved successful in recent years. The planned breakdown of the debate and the vote within the meaning of § 73 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure can be found in the work plan issued. On the other hand, are there any objections? - That's not the case. Thus, this procedure is so approved in consensus. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e1536	In addition, the Presidential Conference of the National Council of Consensus on Design and Duration of Discussions concluded as follows: A day-block speaking time of 9 "Vienna hours" has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ 135 minutes, ÖVP 126 minutes, Freedom 117 minutes, Liberal Forum and Greens per 81 minutes. The speaking time of the member of the government responsible for the respective advisory group or the Secretary of State, which exceeds 20 minutes, is to be counted on the time of the respective government group. We shall vote on this proposal. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal in consensus to give a sign on this point. - That's unanimous, as far as I can see it - Mr Grabner, do you agree? - Yes! - so decided. Advisory Group I Chapter 01: Presidential Chancellery Chapter 02: Federal legislation Chapter 03: Constitutional Court Chapter 04: Administrative Court Chapter 05: Public Prosecutor's Office Chapter 06: Court of Auditors Advisory Group II Chapter 10: Federal Chancellery with services Chapter 13: Art (including economic compensatory estimate) Chapter 71: Bundestheater
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e1631	We are now entering the joint debate on the advisory groups I and II of the Federal Proposal for 1999. Is there a wish for oral reporting? - That's not the case. Then let's go into the debate. I call Mr Trattner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e1655	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr President of the Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate! High house! I already know the statements made by Members from the government parties, who will now come to the speaker's seat. They will rejoice and say: The budget target is: The budget deficit is 2.6% of the gross domestic product, with the government debt ratio we are on our way towards the 60 percent, so it's all palette! Ladies and gentlemen! It's nothing paletteti! [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: At your party!]] If we look at the development of the budget from 1995 to 1998 - we had a deficit ratio of 5.2 per cent in Austria in 1995 - and we now have a 2.6% in 1998 - then we can first look at it as a success. However, if one goes a little deeper into matter, it is noted that from 1995 to 1998 alone tax increases amounted to more than 6 per cent of gross domestic product. [[Unrest in the hall]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] They are still faced today with holding a deficit ratio of 2.6 percent. Celebrating this as a success really goes too far. There is certainly no happy mood there. On the contrary: That's a failure par excellence! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They have not even achieved the goal in the most generous interpretation of the convergence criteria. They have repeatedly said that the achievement of the convergence criteria is crucial to the achievement of the stability criteria for the future single currency, the euro. They were always your statements. What happened now? What means have you achieved the stability criteria on the way to the euro? Were structural measures including: yes or no? - There were almost no structural measures under it. You have made one-time measures, you have made outlays, and you have tapped the reserves of the Austrian National Bank in an order of 18.5 billion schilling. But if the liberals come and say that the silent reserves of the Oesterreichische Notenbank, which are not necessary, would be used for a tax reform, you say: It's a monetary policy madness! But if you do it yourself, then everything is fine. The only difference is the: They want to carry out budget cosmetics, but they want to finance a tax reform for the liberals. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They have only achieved these figures because the federal government has become a poor payer. They have postponed payment terms by more than 120 days - at the expense of the Austrian suppliers, who have to go back to the banks and interfinance with high interest rates, at the expense of their budgets, but in favour of budget cosmetics on the part of the Ministry of Finance or the Federal Chancellor. They resettle construction projects, you sign contracts late. There are unforeseen delays. They make fewer accounts payments and so on and so on. This is what your actions look like to achieve the stability criteria in order to keep a stable euro! You should be aware of what the budget experts have said in the budget hearing. They have expressed their opinion that you are far from achieving the budget objective. Professor Clement said in the budget hearing: The deficit of 2.6 per cent in 1999 is far too high, this deficit has to be reduced to 1 per cent, because we are in a phase of growth which is not based on domestic demand - your tax policy has taken away the Austrian budgets on average 25 000 per year - but only on the export offensive. Again: Your goal is to realize the deficit ratio to at least 1 per cent, or if you really take the Stability Pact seriously, even to reduce to 0 per cent or to switch to surpluses. The next one who criticised budget policy - truly no friend of the opposition - was Mr Walterskirchen of the Wifo. He said: The budgetary situation is not particularly rosy. Further consolidation steps are essential. On the one hand, the Austrian National Bank praises the fact that some things have been achieved, but on the other hand it says that substantial substantial consolidation measures are simply necessary. Yeah, where are you looking? Don't you listen to the experts? What are the experts working for you for then? - Finally, listen to the experts and make a budget policy that really guarantees that a common European currency can be stable and not at the expense of the Austrian budgets. Ladies and gentlemen! But it's also about something else: We have experienced a spectacle in the appointment of the ECB President. Duisenberg, the candidate of all the French with the exception of the French, must be appointed for eight years. They have now tried to add to the Treaty so much that they have been said: Well, maybe for health reasons, he'll be leaving for four years, so that the French can get along. Any argument will then come to our minds! But if you look at the contract in which it stands, such as the order or the The duration of the ECB's Executive Board is determined, then you can see that Article 2.11.2 fully specifies: The term of office shall be eight years. - So what's the whole thing? Is he here for eight years now, or is he only planned for four years? Should the Maastricht Treaty be amended: yes or no? - You just made a punk! You've made another scandal, a purely political one. You said: Well, Governor of the Oesterreichische National Bank is a black one - that is, Dr. Liebscher - but as far as the ECB's Directorate is concerned, of course, we must already see that the political proportion is in line again. Regardless of whether the candidate is a bank expert or not, it must be one of the red half of the empire. - We then nominated Mr. Novotny for this post. Ladies and gentlemen! You have missed a huge opportunity there, because, because you only had political speculations in your mind, you have neglected to nominate a really good bank expert for these posts, regardless of the political color, regardless of what kind of empire he belongs to. Then we would have had a chance to send a member to the ECB's Executive Board. But with the political players you've run, you've rejected this opportunity. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] How seriously do you really take the Stability Pact? - they have committed themselves to a Stability Pact, which means that the structural deficit must be reduced to 0 per cent, and in which it even means that surpluses are to be generated so that action can be taken in times when the economy is down. They only hope to benefit from economic growth as a result of the export offensive, but they do not change the budget deficit. They insist on the 2.6 percent and celebrate it as a success. However, the Stability Pact requires something quite different, namely that you produce surpluses in good times. Where is the reality? Do you all suffer from real-life insanity? You'll never do that! For what does all of this mean? - If there is now an economic recession or growth expectations do not arrive, the structural budget deficit will probably go to the close of 3 percent. And what will the whole thing have? - At the time, you have committed to your EU campaign itself in the EU brochure that the interest or interest rate that a good debtor will receive depends on the conditions on the capital market. It is stated in the 'The Book - Europe' that countries with a low budget deficit will receive lower interest rates, and, of course, those countries with a high budget deficit will pay higher interest rates. The consequences have been calculated, but not by the opposition, not by the liberals, but by the Austrian National Bank. It has been found that if the budget deficit does not fall to zero, but remains in the area of 2.5, 3 per cent, it has interest rates in the range between 0.1 and 0.7 per cent of the gross domestic product. This means that if you pursue budgetary policy in this direction, that you always hope to achieve some figures with one-off measures, an interest-rate burden on the federal budget, which will be well over 100 billion schilling. The result will be - not the critics of the opposition parties, but the economic experts - that another package of savings will be needed. In 2000, 2001 - not by the liberals, but by the experts - another savings package in a scale of 50 billion schilling will be necessary. But how do you want to do that? You have no options at all! This is where you feel that you are making a tax reform to relieve Austrian workers, on the other hand you are not able to do so, because you already have to prepare the next tax package. With regard to the I and II tax packages, experts are now also confirming the statements made by the Liberal Group at the time that there will be not two thirds of the reduction in expenditure and a third increase in revenue, but will be exactly the opposite. In fact, you got two thirds more revenue, one third were expenditure cuts. This was subsequently confirmed by experts. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The report on the convergence criteria on the part of the Austrian National Bank shows how this can be seen in the international comparison. Please, we are the first to be among the 11 participating countries. Every second participant state is heading towards zero deficit, every third participant state is heading towards surpluses, and we are cancering at 2.6 percent. Federal Chancellor! Mr Finanzminister! You should take this seriously, because it is precisely because there is a risk that there will be a new tax package in Austria, which will again be carried out at the expense of Austrian workers. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Finally, take note that it is finally over to constantly present something that does not exist! We have government debt in the apparent scale of 1,600 billion schilling. [[Abg. Fink: Talk about the debts of the liberals in Lower Austria!]] In addition, the liability which is currently being shown on the part of the Austrian Control Bank, for example, in an order of 107 billion schilling. Of these 107 billion schillings, 70 billion will probably be slamming, even in the near future. Or do you want to continue with this tactic that, for example, Russia's debt is constantly being re-indebted, made sense-free, or low effective interest rates are envisaged? - It's five or six times like that. They basically want to disappear until sometime the point has come and you have to go out openly with the Austrian population coming back to something that we all really want to prevent. We simply want to avoid that there will be a tax package on the population, which will lead to a massive tax increase that will go far beyond the current tax and tax rate of 45.7 percent. Look at what dangers there are, what else can happen to us. The fictitious budget deficit, calculated due to pensions, is in Austria, according to the head of the General Pensions Bank, Helmut Kapl, at 300 percent. The second worst country in this area, i.e. in the pension area, is Holland with 210 percent. Since the liberals have already realized in good time what dangers there are there, we then presented our pension model, the so-called three-column model, which turns from charging to the capital cover process. [[Abg. Koppler: Trattner! That's crazy!]] If you had taken these things seriously earlier, we would have been a bit further now and would not have to run after them. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Kapl also demands in his report... [[Abg. Koppler: Do you know what this means for the workers?]] It simply means going through this change now. Because there is still another danger in the pension reform that you have carried out. There is a danger that early pensions will still be exploded, because those who are just ahead want to take the old rules along and, of course, go to the early retirement. The stress is therefore increased once again by these future early pensions. All this will again mean only tax increases for the small Austrian entrepreneurs, because the large enterprises can do it quite well anyway. They have the option of avoiding tax loopholes in countries. [[Abg. May. Posch: Like those of the FPÖ!]] We have also repeatedly called for an objective to be carried out tax harmonisation before joining the EU, so that such things are not possible, that the great can be guided by the escape of tax havens, while the little one has to pay the taxes here in Austria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Posch: This is an unfrozenness!]] I do not know what you will say as employee representatives. How do you explain this to your people? How do you explain to your people that you're all the time talking about that labour costs are too high... Yes, the three-column model. [[Abg. Koppler: You believe with the three-column model!]] [[Abg. Koppler: The three-column model we explained to the people!]] One has to discuss everything, and one cannot refuse something in advance and claim that it is not good without looking at it. [[Abg. Koppler: Workers know what would happen to them in the three-column model! It would be a disaster!]] [[Abg. May. Posch: That would be crazy!]] Look, the budget experts in the budget hearing also said they want to look at the free family splitting model, they want to calculate it, whether it's going or not. You have to look at things. If you only criticize without having read anything, Mr Koppler, then simply lose credibility. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: You're talking about credibility!]] First you have to read it, then you can criticize it, but not vice versa! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I know exactly what I'm talking about. I know what agreements you make. Take the score that was drawn up by the Confederation at the time of the negotiation of the acquisition of the Federal Shares of CA. And where is the research offensive? Where's the export offensive? For this, you have decreed 1 billion schilling each. What happened? - Not even half! They promise again and again, announce, but nothing will be realized. What about the employment plan? Where are the 3 billion schillings in the budget? - Nowhere! You announce, put something in view, so that there's some sort of peace going on, and then you kick it out again, and nothing happens. This budgetary policy will certainly never be taken into account by our opposition party, the Group of the Party of European Socialists. That is why we will reject the budget.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e1895	The next speaker is Mr Peter Schieder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e1913	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I have been surprised that Mr Trattner is speaking here, under the presentation of general budgetary considerations, of the Chapter on Top Institutions. I have read in the paper that he has been dealing with the financial resources of FPÖ and the conditions in the Lower Austrian FPÖ over the last few days. It is likely that this trip to the Federal budget has been granted to him as a relaxing holiday from these conditions. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! My main task is to speak to Parliament on our own work, but of course I would also like to make a few words on the subject of Trattner's comments. I would like to point out that the presentation of the budget which he gave was clearly rejected in the debate at first reading, also by our speakers, that it has been clarified by many things, not only through the presentation, but also through documents, that some of his claims do not agree that his fears will not come true and that it is not only good that this excellent budget has been achieved, but also that the form has been chosen to deal with it earlier in order to have the second half of this year free for the EU Presidency. I would also like to address a word of thanks to Mr Bundeskanzler and his colleagues on the relationship between Parliament and the Federal Government. There is very good cooperation between Parliament - except here in the House - with the government, i.e. in the advisory councils, in the Council of Foreign Affairs, in the Council of Integration and at many other levels. The dates, the contents were well coordinated with us, and all the documents requested by Members were made available to them. Even though I am talking about the work here in the House, Mr President, I can begin with a word of thanks to you and to the staff of this House for the really good care. I agree to address this word of thanks to you only today, although it would have been due in recent years in the face of the rebellion that has taken place in this House. However, I do not do it until today because last year the Second and Third President of the National Council also made events and I now thank you very much and can praise this work. I would therefore like to thank all the Presidents of this House and, of course, you, Mr President, for your initiative and for the variety of events, without putting me to the accusation, I praise the first President of the National Council simply because he is from my own party. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is particularly important to highlight the commemorative event that we held together with the Federal Council recently in the Reichsratsshalle. This commemorative event, its contents, the manner in which it was held, as well as the performance of the opera "The Diary of Anne Frank" was a political, symbolic and also artistic highlight. Thank you, Mr President, and all those who have helped to make this possible. That was good for this Parliament, that was good for this country! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP, the Liberal Forum and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to speak on two or three other smaller points. The first smaller point - I hope it will not be a bigger one - is: It will, of course, be a task for this Parliament as a whole to discuss - if it becomes true - what has been announced by the Freedom Party in recent days in response to the affair with its Member, namely the financial line, the treaty with the Members to be created. It would certainly be unfair to talk about what will stand inside if it has not yet been presented. It is therefore only possible to judge it according to the previous statements, and according to the previous statements, the concerns expressed by our clubman Dr. Kostelka yesterday are appropriate. An internal situation of a Member caused by such a contract: There must not be an existence against oath as a Member, a fine against vows. There must be no cuts in the independence of a Member. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The electorate has the task to give to the honourable Member. I know the parties play a role in mediation, I know that this role has sometimes been exaggerated. In overestimation of this role, mistakes have been made in the past - also by my own party - but according to all that we know today, there must be no relapse that goes further back than anything others have ever done in the past. That would be the electorate who has delegated the control of the Member - the Quis custodet would look new - that would be the Member who - even in his existence - has become the puppet of his party. And that will have to be considered carefully if the appropriate proposals are made. The first presentation, the first words, is designed to really arouse the greatest concern in us. Next brief comment. When I heard a report on the radio at 8 o'clock in the morning, suddenly the word "sitter decay" came down from the mouth of the Second President, Neisser, and I thought he was talking about the case of the FPÖ member Rosenstingl. - No, no! The "situation" was the question of how Members would react if they were given a call for order by the President, what the actual corrections would look like et cetera, et cetera. So the reaction of Members to the President's decisions was the reason for the debate on a moral breakdown in this House. I think Mr Neisser will certainly give us - I know how contentious he is - the opportunity to discuss this with him. I would like to mention from our side the willingness to discuss this. It is likely, however, that some of these questions could be resolved by the way in which they are chaired. For example, if, in the case of an actual correction, there is a problem that the honourable Member does not start with the passage he intends to correct, then the solution would be quite simple: According to the Rules of Procedure, the President should not even ask for this passage to be brought, but he could simply blaze off and withdraw the floor from the floor of the honourable Member who did not bring this introduction. It is as strict as the Rules of Procedure! So some of the problems presented today in the early days on the radio as problems with the house are, I think, to be solved by a corresponding type of presidency. But I did not want to call on radio, as we will certainly have other opportunities to talk to President Neisser about it. The last point of our work, which I would like to mention, Mr President, is also the stronger electronic dimension of work of a politician. I am very pleased with all the possibilities that have been created here in Parliament in recent years. It is, however, an area where one cannot keep up, but must always develop in order to remain at the height of time and possibilities. It would therefore be appropriate to consider whether the data passed on to Members could not include certain presidential decisions, dates, visits to the House and others, whether the programme could not include the individual votes - which are to be voted on by the majority - in order to facilitate Members' work. It would be to consider whether it should not be possible for them not only to have access to some information here in the house, but also to be able to find connections to the work via the now possible recall system from a laptop or computer wherever they are. With regard to all the new possibilities introduced in the Federal Republic of Germany - electronic act, reports et cetera - it is necessary to examine how the legal and factual possibility of access can be created for Members. I am glad that a solution will be found for the Federal Law. I ask you to consider when we come to a voting system, and when it is set up, you should also create a connection for a laptop on every pult. These are not the main problems, but they are small things of our work which are discussed at this point - not because they are so important as small things, but because they are supposed to help the individual Members to facilitate their work so that they can work better and more effectively for the people of that country. And that's our job after all.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e2008	Mr Schmidt. — (FR) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e2027	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate and Court of Auditors! I would like to follow an old use just a few fundamental comments on this budget and I intend to speak again on the subject of culture, because I have seen that this is a somewhat different process of discussion. I do not want to address the individual chapters so much now, but rather to limit myself to basic things. There is hardly a government, if any, that does everything right. There is hardly a government, if any, that makes everything wrong. That is simply the case, and even the assessment of what is right and what is wrong will depend on the different viewpoints, namely, fairly. And the extent of right and wrong, the weighting will depend on whether you are responsible for government or whether you are in opposition. These are all self-evident things to be said clearly in order not to fall into a black and white painting. Of course, this government has also made one thing or another right - everything else would be terrible - but it is now important whether one has the correctness, regardless of whether one has different viewpoints on one issue or another, at a time when, in the truest sense of the word "point", as it seems to me, for example, when achieving the Maastricht criteria, whether one measures the accuracy of the facade, i.e. in terms of formal criteria, or whether and to what extent one is willing to look behind this facade and to honestly assess the foreseeable development and effects. I say it again: It will be different depending on whether you see it through opposition or through government glasses, but it is already possible to objectively do some. Although not all that is contained in an OECD report finds my undivided agreement, it is an argument that can help with objectivity and must be taken seriously. The last OECD report on the year 1997/98 contains, among other things, assessments of the state of Austria, with the conclusion - and this is probably one that is not only reflected in this OECD report but is shared by almost all economic experts - that the state deficit for 1999, at least - and I am saying already a high figure, should not be more than 2%, because of the need for room for manoeuvre. We need this margin not only for concrete measures, which are then also mentioned, but also, of course, because it is a matter of creating the scope for other times in certain economic times, in order to achieve stability with an anticyclic budget policy. That is to say, the 2% - once again: a very benevolent number, the majority even goes below - would be at least those slats that would reasonably be sought. The OECD, in this context - this is a realistic assessment of the situation, which is already projectable - says that, for example, the large block of pension expenditure from early retirements, which can be expected, will of course turn out accordingly in terms of changes in the pension system. The OECD is still doing something: It takes the Federal Government's announcement of a tax reform seriously - something I am unfortunately not doing; I very much regret that I cannot do so. But if one takes this announcement seriously, it is also clear that a certain margin must be created for this, because one thing is certain: Such a tax reform must be linked to tax reduction - and this is not only an opposition to it, but, as I believe, it is objective access, which can also be read in this report. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] That is to say, deficit reduction and structural reform - I am now quoting from this report - are to be seen as mutually strengthening processes. The pressure for consolidation - and this is available - is intended to provide the basis for a reasonable tax reform, for a reasonable pension reform, for a reform of the public service, in order to cut and raise only those three large pieces which are actually reflected in the budget and where there is a need for reform that has not been implemented so far. The OECD believes that it is desirable because of this analysis of the situation of the greatest fiscal policy ambition. - I can only join this, but add: Structural policy ambition would also be desirable, and none of it can be seen in the previous government policy or in the budget policy or in the presentation that we have to discuss today. The 2.6 percent who are treated as a deficit here are already some of the positive figures mentioned in order to be able to work towards relative stability for the future, and the main problem is seen by all experts, even if they belong to the government parties, in the structural deficit. As regards pension reform: I know it's laborious, you're talking about it all the time, but it's necessary to mention this subject again and again, because it's not solved so far. The solution that the government is selling as a reform is a compromise solution. We've been talking about it. We have also recognised that one step or another is going in the right direction. I don't want to paint black and white now, but to call it "reform" is really a recognition of this term. The problem is not only not solved, but it has also been taken wrong steps, namely - and that is what bothers me so immeasurably in this government policy: this obvious short-termness in thinking - the inclusion of all incomes into compulsory insurance. This may in the short term bring the pension funds, but every reasonable person knows that it will lead to a burden over a longer period of time, because of course these payments also lead to a return. That is why this step has been a wrong one, bringing only a short success, if at all, but pointing in a wrong direction. This is to be blamed on this government, which is to be objectively blamed. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The fact that personal responsibility is always held only in the mouth, but that there is no precipitation in the political concepts is also legible - also in connection with the pension reform - because not only that no tax incentives are given for an individual or an occupational pension, the opposite is true: It is precisely these self-responsible ways that are made unattractive. I wonder, With what good conscience can Chancellor & Co still lead the term "own responsibility" in the mouth, if nothing of that is reflected in political actions? Tax reform: The fact that the labour factor is too highly taxed has now become a blasphemy. I would also like to refer to the last OECD report in which this is expressly recorded. This cannot therefore be regarded as an oppositional view of things, but it is objective. That environmental taxes play an insufficient role - I now use the benevolent words of the OECD report - is, in any case, objective in this form. I'll tell you: They do not play a leading and therefore meaningful role at all, but if, then these considerations are always used only to a budget stop - and to nothing else. The uneven distribution of the tax burden in the context of income tax - also conclusions that: They do not need to read in opposition papers, but are presented black and white in the OECD report. The OECD - and I am referring not only to it because I believe that the argument gets a different weight, but also because I share this assessment - is the right conclusion that excessive taxation of labour income has a negative effect on incentives, and that the SPÖ has been written in the main book, on social justice - one really cannot speak of social justice in this context - and that in an analysis of fiscal profits from cold progression, I say now, the last years that have been counted with 15 billion shillings. If you divide the numbers about: Since the last tax reform which took place in 1989, as you know, wage tax revenue - congratulations, Minister of Finance!; he was not there - increased by 125 percent. If you look at the 1999 proposal: By 1987 it was 108 percent. At the same time, however, wages and salaries have only increased by 54 percent, and that, although we know that we have more employees, these wages and salaries are therefore divided into more heads and, therefore, these 54 percent are also a very distorted number as far as the individual is concerned. The tax levels have not been adjusted for ten years. In other words, the effect of this cold progression and the savings package means that taxes have increased twice as fast as wages and salaries. This is a balance sheet that can be satisfying for no one, since you can be beautiful as much as you want. The taxpayers pay by 147 billion Schilling more taxes and taxes than they did three years ago. You have to imagine that! This means that about 25,000 S per year is more dependent on the individual. That, Mr Bundeskanzler Klima, is exactly the opposite of what you promised. You have promised that the tax and tax rate - I admit you have used the word 'tendial' - at least rightly - must be reduced. The opposite happens! And if, in these weeks, the 1999 budget is decided, you have no chance at all of fulfilling your promise at all. I admit that you have not concluded that contract which the party chairman Haider will now all miss his officials, so you will not be used to a ponale out of your salary, and I would not want to do so in this case, Mr Bundeskanzler, but I hope that the Pönales will be paid in the form of voters and voters. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] But you have also not kept your other promises, namely all those who have at least shown a reformatory approach in the choice of words. Whether this was the trade order, whether it was the export offensive, which was announced whether it was the technology offensive, which was announced whether it was an administrative reform, although we have now decided an AVG new: However, administrative reform cannot be discussed. The title for all of this would be the reconstruction of the state that you have also promised. You know, it's an old leader, and I don't wonder that so few listen here because we already know all of this. Only: It does not change the fact that in Austria we have the lowest rate of self-employment compared with the other European countries. In the other countries, the average is 11 percent, we have 7 percent. And we know - and this is also an old hat - that the bureaucratic effort is that of 33 per cent of potential entrepreneurs as either dissuasive or at least as an argument for the poor quality of the location of Austria, which exists very well in this context. There are sectors in which the bureaucratic effort - if you calculate it, you will believe it - comes to 83 000 S per employee per year. That's inconvenient! For me, not everything that comes from Europe is too sacrosan, and you know very well that we, as Europeans, have a lot of criticism. But in this context I must say: The criticism of the EU authorities is well justified when it says that it recognises no new approaches to the fight against unemployment in Austria - admittedly also in Germany. If you are talking about new career opportunities in the social and health sectors, that sounds very nice. But if we don't know who's paying it and how it should be implemented, then I don't think anything about it, because even things you've made more specific, you haven't complied with. If we are talking about education and training - the key to unemployment - and the apprenticeship package - it was only recently discussed - this has no significance for me because it is at the expense of others, at the expense of the long-term unemployed and at the expense of women. That is, it is a hole-to-hole policy, and with such a policy one cannot boast of God. That we - and this is particularly remarkable - still have one of the highest social quotas in Austria is nothing that would scare me - unlike Mr Klubobmann Khol, who seems to be very scared - if the effect were to be a more correct one if we could bring about more social justice if we could bring about more security, more social security for fellow citizens in this country. - I'm saying, Citizens, which does not mean citizens. I hope that has been understood. So if this were achieved in this context, then the level of this social ratio would not irritate me. It irritates me, however, because this effect does not occur, and it cannot be met by holding a social-smarter debate of the worst kind - because it is in the coat of the Christian Democrats. The honourable Member, Mr Khol, has declared that the middle class is no longer ready to feed. - That's not the way to encounter such a misdevelopment! However, the opposite is the case. You find only more beautiful words than another group, but it is not much to find the better words. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] However, you cannot meet this problem either by deciding what you decided yesterday, namely again a completely false transfer model, with which you have no confidence again in the support of families - and, interestingly, by a party who always believes that it has leased responsibility for itself as a political principle but has not yet implemented anything of it into politics. We are at the top of the chapter, and I therefore repeat my request in this context that a dissent opinion be introduced in the Constitutional Court. In fact, we would have had a completely different basis of argument for a reorganisation of family transfers, and it might not have been possible to find out what came out yesterday and what I think is unfair. I would also like to go back to the OECD report, which speaks of the need for a vertical division and not the horizontal one that you are so pleased to do for ideological reasons. But if we're already with ideology, I'll stay at the Constitutional Court. I think it is urgently necessary for us to find a new order mode for the constitutional judges. I do not believe at all that, whether this is the Federal Government, whether these are the parties, whatever the case, can be used to bring ideologies into the Constitutional Court. This constitutional court knowledge must have opened the last eyes to the fact that it is not about the principles of the Constitution, but about ideological principles. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I believe that in this context one cannot and must not, above all, proceed with the means with which you are doing it, but rather with the development of other models. In the context of the social ratio, I will not miss an opportunity to ensure social cohesion by finally having a political debate on basic security. It is not enough for us to get approval from the field of science that we get approval from the Catholic field that we get approval from many people who are dealing with the concept of basic security ideologically. What I want to achieve and what we want to achieve - and we will not abandon it - is the political argument to get to a conception, as always it then looks. We have our ideas, we are ready to discuss them. We need basic protection, which means that there must be social security - regardless of whether or not a person has employment. The real challenge of this society is to preserve social cohesion. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: But not with a basic guarantee!]] This is particularly true of the social democrats who have so far refused this discussion as have all the other parties or almost all the other parties in this House. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I would like to conclude by perhaps having the opportunity to report later on on on on the subject of culture. It is always delegated and complained by all possible people, in particular parliamentarians, of what kind of law flow we are faced with. This is a very essential point when we are talking about structural reforms, because it is not just a matter of avoiding such a number of laws and other legal provisions as they are being passed on on a regular basis and, as they are then, as administrative regulations, that we not only talk about them, but that we ask ourselves three basic questions every time a matter enters the House. There are three basic liberal questions for me, which I also try to plant in each individual head, namely that we do not need any association that does not, in any case, carry anything on or do nothing else, but that there should be a very slow change in the law-making mentality here. First question: Can the state even regulate it? Second question: If he's allowed, does he really have to take care of it? And if he's got to take care of it already: Where is the maximum room for the individual, for the individual? I would be very pleased if, even if it were liberal fundamental questions, others would ask these questions, because then we would have those structural reforms that we need.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e2102	The next speaker was Mr Feurstein. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e2121	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen, I must say that the two opposition speeches have differed. Mrs Schmidt's arguments allow us to deal with them. What honourable Member Trattner said is hardly suitable for an objective discussion, because he simply rejected everything and did not show any alternatives. Nevertheless, I will allow myself to make some corrections. Ladies and gentlemen! The debate on the budget, which we are discussing today in the National Council's plenary session, is fundamentally different from the previous budget debates we have held in the House, especially because there has already been a great deal of agreement between the Ministry of Finance and the individual ministries on the priorities of this budget. These priorities are quite clear: Priority to education and security. These are the two areas that are clearly highlighted in this 1999 budget. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Secondly, the further implementation of what we started in 1996 is to consolidate the budget. Madam President, Mr Schmidt and Mr Trattner. The success of consolidation - you can turn the numbers and turn them as you want - is clear in my opinion: The budget deficit has been significantly reduced compared to 1995, although we all, of course, would like to have a deficit ratio of 2.0 percent and not the actual 2.5 or 2.6 percent. But our objective is - and the Ministry of Finance and the Minister of Finance have said this very clearly - to strive for and implement 2.0 percent in the next budget. However, I would not have thought it useful, or would it have been wrong, if these 2.0% had already been achieved with the 1999 budget, because then savings would have been necessary in certain areas which would not have enabled us to carry out important tasks in this budget, such as in the social field, in the field of education and security. Ladies and gentlemen! We can and must see where the tasks are. I am in favour of the budget being drawn up not only from fiscal considerations, but also taking into account the needs which we must place on the budget. Let me turn to the question: Where do we stand, where do we stand less well? When we take into account the important criteria for assessing the economic situation, we are primarily concerned with inflation in Europe: Austria has the lowest inflation rate. We are third with interest rates below 15 European countries. Austria has a low interest rate level, which is crucial for investment activities. We are in the lower third with the deficit ratio - unlike honourable Member Trattner said. We are significantly below the average of the EU countries, which is 3 percent. I say again: We would prefer 2.0 percent instead of 2.5 percent. Ladies and gentlemen! We are second in all EU countries with the unemployment rate. Only Luxembourg has a lower unemployment rate. I should like to make it clear to Mr Schmidt that: Austrian labour market policy is praised by the EU and international organisations. Not only did it happen that Commissioner Flynn voted, who was the Commissioner responsible for employment policy in the EU, asked how Austria achieved this high level of full employment and this low unemployment rate. We are a model in this area for many other countries. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course, fiscal consolidation has not been done without further delay. Victims were demanded, in particular by the servants of the federal and regional authorities. There was a recording stop. Federal Chancellor! From this point of view, I would really like to thank the Federal officials - everyone, the "small" contract staff and everyone else - for their understanding and commitment that we have been able to pursue this consolidation course in the area of administration. That was a great achievement! These were additional services that our federal officials have carried out, which are to be recognized today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Without savings in staff expenditure, which made up 16 billion schilling in 1997 - 16 billion schilling! - this consolidation course would not have succeeded. However, I would also like to thank the staff members of the SPÖ - a Member of the SPÖ - for the really great help and support that we have received from the staff of our House, the Parliament, again and again. They too had to give up a lot of work, they too have done great work, they have provided additional services, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] An important prerequisite for consolidation was also the breakdowns. Ladies and gentlemen! We can see that many of the exclusions that have taken place in the last two or three years have really been successful. I would just like to mention a breakdown, the exclusion of labour market management and the creation of labour market services. As a result, a paradigm change has taken place in labour market policy. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) There is no other area where so many structural changes have been made as much as in the social field. I warn against your proposals to change even more. What we have done in the field of pensions is the limit of what is reasonable for pensioners and for those people who are now on retirement. That's the border! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I very much oppose your proposals and suggestions. If we have now tried to involve all employees in social security and pension insurance, this is an immense progress in social policy. Ladies and gentlemen! What do we want to achieve with this? - We want to achieve that not only 98 percent of Austrians have legal health insurance, but also in the foreseeable future all women receive a pension. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This will only be achieved if all incomes are included, even if minor employees can be included in pension insurance. That is why I am contradicting Mr Schmidt, who meant that this would be a mistake in the pension reform. - This is a great progress in pension reform, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gredler: You just don't understand!]] You should also take note of this from the Liberal Forum at last. I understand what she said, because I know her proposals, and I always read her proposals word for word and sentence for sentence. I am interested in what you say, ladies and gentlemen from the Liberal Forum, as well as in the proposals made by the Greens and the Liberals. For me, the proposals made by the other political groups are very important in order to see which way we can go. Ladies and gentlemen! In one area, namely the breakdown of the statistical central office, I am very glad that a solution has been found at the last moment. For I think it is not just for the purpose of disseminating it. Federal Chancellor! So I think if I can tell you now and if you listen to me... [[The government bank is being spoken.]] I really think it is unbearable, Mr President, that Members of this House are constantly talking to Members of the Government behind the speakers' backs. [[Demonstratative condolences with the liberals.]] I do not do it either, and I ask that others do not. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Every now and then you do it! I've seen you before!]] I'll do it later. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Only if it affects you yourself, you get upset!]] In case I've already done it, I'm going to be better, Dr. Haider. But I'm talking about something else now. I am referring to the Central Statistical Office, and I am very glad, Mr Chancellor, that there has been no exclusion in this area and that we have also tried to maintain and leave the main computer, the computer unit, in the central office. Federal Chancellor! I would also like to say quite clearly to you that we are face-to-face with all the reform steps in the field of official statistics. In this context, I am thinking in particular of the development of a new data protection law, I am thinking of the development of a new Federal Statistical Act, I am also thinking of the reform that must now be carried out in the Austrian Statistical Centre due to the Diepold opinion. I also think that we should use more secondary statistical data, i.e. data produced in the ministries, in order to be able to relieve the respondents, the population, the economy. Important and priority is: We need official statistics, and we need authority for official statistics, and these tasks are carried out by the Austrian Central Statistical Office. Ladies and gentlemen! We continued with this 1999 budget the consolidation rate, which was launched in 1996. The deficit ratio will be reduced to 2.0 per cent in 2000 if the forecasts and corresponding intentions of the Minister of Finance can be met, and the debt ratio will fall below 65 per cent. These are objectives that are attainable, and I believe we should all work towards achieving and implementing the objectives we have set ourselves for further budgets.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e2237	Mrs Mag. Stoisits is the next one to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e2255	Poštovane lady i gospodo! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies' lawyers! Mr. Volksanwalt! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! - If there's so much prominence, you have to welcome a lot of fame. I would like to start by thanking the ladies and gentlemen who produce shiny manuscripts from many incomprehensible speeches, namely the ladies and gentlemen of the Stenographical Service. [[General condolences.]] I am sometimes quite amazed when I read what I said and how well I read my statements because I cannot believe that my speeches are so good. I really want to thank them. For this, ladies and gentlemen - and I am now really in the media, namely the budget - is something that concerns our honourable Members directly: From stenographic Service is worked in the silent and hidden, and the stenographic protocol documents things almost for eternity, which is not essential. Who knows how many diplomas and dissertations will arise from all that has been said in this place over the years? Ladies and gentlemen, who are so inconspicuously sitting in front of us and who are doing essential things, thank you again very much. [[General condolences.]] But then I would like to ask the President immediately, because it is essentially about the money today - and that is certainly the subject of the day. For many years now, with the total remuneration reform in the Federal Service, this has begun, some of the weaknesses in this House, namely the lack of personnel, or a different assessment of the activities carried out by the employees of this House. Mr President. You know my opinion, but I would like to repeat it here again: I always have the impression that the least value is given in this House to those achievements which benefit the honourable Member and thus directly every one of us. This work, even when it comes to job assessment, is always least appreciated. This is my impression and certainly a subjective assessment, but I assume that many of my colleagues will share my assessment. [[General condolences.]] For me, this is the essential thing. If a parliament, a national council, ladies and gentlemen, does not even have a legal service of a semi-representative size, then it will, in some way, cut itself off. This problem, Mr Bundeskanzler, is, as it were, the bridge to you. You - in the executive - have the constitutional service, which is essentially the legal service of the Republic. Here in the National Council, we decide the laws, we are those who hold our heads, because I candidate as a representative and are elected as such. You're running, but you don't exercise your mandate. They are here as executives, and I would therefore like to repeat once again today the long-standing call for a legitimate service of considerable size to be established in the National Council. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is incomprehensible to me why this device is available to you and not to us. There's no such thing. Nevertheless, I would like to thank those ladies and gentlemen who are giving us these assistance - and this applies not only to the Stenographical Service, but also to the literature documentation and the library - especially for treating us Members, regardless of group membership, so to speak. I would like to say this quite explicitly, because I have an eight-year experience in this area and I must say that no one treats us as indiscriminately as the Members here in Parliament. There I, ladies and gentlemen, have had quite different experiences for eight years in various ministries. As "small" At times, the members of the opposition do not even get telephonically through to the Councils of Ministers, let alone get the information you should actually get as a representative of the Sovereign. - But this is different in this house, and I would like to stress that at this point quite specific. Mr President, I come to the last point of my first topic - it is about strengthening the Stenographical Service. The department's wishes in this regard are known. There are huge human gaps. Maybe you could lend them your ear once. Ladies and gentlemen! I am now coming to the second point, the so important issue of dealing with the past, which affects all of us like a sort of key issue - at least since I have been working as a politician. It began in 1991 with a speech I remember, which former Federal Chancellor Dr. Vranitzky held here in the House. This was certainly hidden in a debate on Croatia and neutrality, but this does not reduce the weight of this speech, in which he clearly expressed Austria's co-responsibility in the events between 1938 and 1945 and has also taken our country's co-debt. Federal Chancellor! You are a worthy successor in these questions - this is my impression of your only one year as a German Chancellor - as regards the discussion of these issues. [[Demonstrative applause at SPÖ.]] My hopes therefore also focus on the future. Continue this path together with those who have been dealing with the so difficult chapter of the past for many years! Now I'm pretending you don't have to repeat it again. However, as Mr Fischer has said, I am doing so, which we owe, among other things, to a very essential chapter in this way of dealing with our past, namely in connection with the National Fund for the Victims of National Socialism. He does so, and he does so with a firmness and persistence that my great appreciation applies. I have the impression, Mr Bundeskanzler, that you are acting similarly - not least because of your speech on Sunday at the commemorative ceremony in Mauthausen. Nevertheless, much remains to be done. Again it is the money that plays an essential role. It is about the future of the National Fund, but not primarily about the question of how much is to be done from the funds of the National Fund to individual payments to victims of National Socialism, but also about the importance that the Republic of the War on the Past intends to give in the future, and how those simple people who are not best informed and knowledgeablely represented by organizations who have been aware of their concerns can help for many years. I mean that the "simple" - under quotation marks - victims of National Socialism and their descendants can only be provided with any help. There have already been very positive approaches in the past. Another key word: Invitation. - A German Chancellor Vrannitzky has spoken for the victims of National Socialism and its descendants and has invited them to the Federal Chancellor's Office for a jause. As banal as it sounds: These are gestures that have left a deep impression in these people. My wish would be - and I would strongly encourage this - that these things be institutionalized and that it should not be left only at the level of "private initiatives" - privately now under quotation marks - such as that Dr. Zelmans and the Jewish Welcome Service. That's not state. This is, as it were, an initiative of a large travel agency, which is also supported by the municipality of Vienna. But Dr. Zelman is not an official representative of Austria. I would like us to implement a similar initiative in an institutional framework. Because much remains to be done here, and time pushes as hardly in any other area. The people who were and are still victims are getting older and will die someday. Their descendants also have few possibilities if the direct contact with their parents and grandparents no longer exists to articulate themselves. It's just a very small thought start now. We have already mentioned this in the National Fund's board of trustees, your staff was there too. He must have told you about it. This topic is very important to me personally, because I have been dealing with it for many years. It also has budgetary implications. That is why I would like to mention it specifically. Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to thank Mr Fischer for the truly dignified design of the first day of commemoration. In autumn, on the occasion of the debate on the budget chapter, we decided on this commemorative day with a resolution. I believe - and this has clearly been made clear - that this was not just a good idea of individuals, but that this decision has really been a political necessity and an act that has found international attention, although it must be said that it was too late for many years. But it is never too late to deal with these questions, because there is still the danger. There are new forms of anti-Semitism, racism, intolerance in our Republic, whose danger has taken on a dimension that many - I have the impression - do not understand. This should also be the task of this commemorative day in the future. I am convinced that you will support future activities and that next year there will also be more planning, which will be the result of our being until 5. May 1999 has a full year for that. Activities are to be carried out specifically at the level of educational institutions, which are even more intensive in the form of schools, so that this reflection is really carried by the whole population and is not limited only to the level of the highest representatives of the state meeting at celebrations. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I now come to two other short chapters, because I want to take advantage of the opportunity for the Federal Chancellor to stand just a meter ahead of me - he sits, I stand. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: He's not standing, but he's sitting!]] The first issue concerns the ethnic groups, the second the media. Federal Chancellor! I have the impression that you are very concerned about the issue of dealing with the past, but I do not have this impression on the subject of ethnic groups. [[Federal Chancellor Mag. Climate: On the topic of ethnic groups I have been doing this for five years!]] Take this criticism as an assignment or a request to accept this issue, a subject which, of course, represents a very small mosaic in comparison to the complexity of your tasks as Chancellor of the Federal Republic - starting from the EU Presidency this year to issues that go "introduced" of the Republic. However, issues relating to the co-existence of minorities and ethnic groups are very, very important for those affected. But not only for those directly concerned are people's issues important, but they are questions that really concern democracy. What, if not the treatment of minorities, is a measure of the maturity of a democratic system? That is why they are so important, and that is why the promotion of groups, the support of cultural activities and also the support of association and media activities is such an essential concern not only for the members of organisations, but also for the interests of the majority - the one-linguistic majority - of the population. I don't know if you've ever heard that the motto of my commitment as a minority speaker is very simple: Consensuality is curable. It is the plea for bilingualism, for the support of more languages and more cultures. We, the members of a minority group, are bilingual people, the others are the "arms" - under quotation marks. But we need support, support and recognition from the outside. That is the goal of popular promotion, and it takes money to do so. Unfortunately, for the first time since I was here in Parliament, the distribution for the promotion of groups has not grown. It is, quite the contrary, lower in the Federal estimates than last year. A very simple statement was made in the Committee on Budgets: Everything, and thus the promotion of groups, has been cut by percentage. [[Federal Chancellor Mag. Climate: In the last five years it has risen!]] Mr Bundeskanzler, I know exactly the development, I have been working in this area for many years. In hardly one area, there is such a great need for follow-up in international comparison or in comparison with other European countries. Although I - and I said this yesterday in the evening - appreciate your personal commitment or that of the Minister of Finance for the support of bilingual local radios in Carinthia and Burgenland and I am pleased that there is a budgetary coverage, i.e. a unique performance for the establishment of these institutions, I regret this development. The point that I see critically the fact that there is no increase in funding for the promotion of groups of people is that more activity creates more funding. New initiatives are being developed. In particular, with regard to the Europe that is growing together - thanks to Europe that is growing together - it has created a dynamic in the field of the activities of the Austrian peoples, which is truly unique. What has happened in recent years! Let's just think about the following: Roma and Sinti were not even perceived in Austria, and if they were perceived, they were only denoted as "Gypsies". Today, however, they are for us something like a prototype of the successful integration process - and this also in political contexts. These are primarily not just legal issues. Because what are the Roma and Sinti legal? - You're not mentioned in any law. However, they are politically perceived, recognized and represented in advisory committees. They have formed representative organisations and also need money to develop. That is why I cannot understand the suspension of years of gradual increase in the promotion of groups, especially because this is contained in a budget that will work after the EU Presidency year. Federal Chancellor! I would like to add one last sentence. A problem which has nothing to do with money at all and which is just a political question is the sad question of the political recognition of the Styrian Slovenians. You know the positions: There are not in this country insignificant politicians who simply and simply deny the fact of the Slovenian-speaking population in Styria. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: How many Slovenians are there in the Styria? Mr President, Fischer opens a cultural house on Saturday!]] There is a tension between denying the existence of this group on the one hand and the exemplary activities that could be set by the Article 7 cultural association in Bad Radkersburg on the other. A first highlight on Saturday is the opening of the Cultural House in Laafeld, which will be grateful to Mr Fischer. Steiric, even social-democratic, politicians have consistently and vehemently refused to even set foot in this cultural house. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: How about the German-speaking population in Slovenia?]] I see Mr Perfuss shaking his head. I mean top representatives. I have so far met only one representative of your party, a Social Democratic countryman. Everyone else can't look there. [[Interference of the Federal Chancellor Mag. Climate.]] I do not blame you, but I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that, despite everything, you are the Federal Chancellor of the Republic and that it is not only about formal, but also about atmospheric things. The explanation of why the act of involvement of the Styrian Slovenians in the Advisory Board in the main committee has still not been implemented has something to do with government policy and junkimation. A very small, supportive group is being played on major bilateral issues of Slovenia and Austria. This is damaging to the climate in the co-existence of minorities and majority groups. That's just one last point. Now I come to my very last point, which I can hold very briefly, because today we will still have the opportunity - I do not know if you will participate in it - to talk about it: That's the ORF reform. Federal Chancellor! So much compensated failure in the sense of non-implementation of promises as in connection with the reform of Austrian broadcasting must first be sought! [[Abg. Koppler: Do we have to turn the speaker's mouth around?]] In your government statement, you have not only... [[Federal Chancellor Mag. Climate: We are not alone in the government!]] Yes, if you could, but, Chancellor, politics is the art of the feasible. And you obviously don't master this art. That's why I filed a bill today. I could document the bodies in which it concerns the future of Austrian broadcasting, in which there is word for word absolute agreement between the two coalition parties. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: You have to tell the bowl!]] In my opinion, therefore, Austrian broadcasting is something so valuable - and that is the essential thing for me - because what the ORF has done in the past and will do in the future was and will be so identity-building for this Republic. Nothing in this country, no other comparable institution, has such an essential influence on the self-confidence of the citizens of that country, on their identification with institutions, with the political system and with the fact of an Austrian identity, an Austrian self-conception like the ORF. That is why apart from all the queerels - whether AG or not, you can discuss everything, and you know very well that this is not the question - for me the essential question: As a public-law institution, does the ORF have a possibility to survive at the legal level: yes or no? Now I bring only a small example, Mr. Federal Chancellor, why this ORF reform would be so essential...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e2421	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e2436	Mr President. If we do not give Austrian broadcasting the possibility of entering new business areas also at the legal level, then he does not have them, and he is harming himself without wanting to do so. And that's the mistake you make if you don't implement this reform. But later.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e2463	The next speaker is Mr. Dr. Herbe. I don't have a volunteer limit on speaking time. I'll set the clock to 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e2479	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! On Tuesday this week, only around 23.30 a.m. could one of the most important legislative instruments of recent years, namely the AVG-Novelle, be called by the President - a major reform of the administrative procedure. The delay in this item on the agenda 4 has been caused - ladies and gentlemen, we all know this - by this huge FPÖ party scandal, by Rosenstingl and everything related to it. Please allow me this comment: It is really a staircase of Austrian political history when a new foundation of FPÖ is proposed. That, that is, Dr. Haider, who is responsible for over a decade alone in the FPÖ, who is responsible for these conditions, is now supposed to establish this party "new", in some way to himself. - Are you saying, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, how stupid are you selling voters? [[Abg. Dr. Haider: I'll explain it to you then! You can't understand!]] Mr. Dr. Winkler - I also say that to you, Mr. Dr. Haider - is a highly respected journalist from the "Small Newspaper". Do you know what he's writing today? - "The speech of the moral re-establishment of the FPÖ can only appear as a mockery in view of the verbal inhibition of Haider himself and the characterlessness of his satrap Stadler." - There's nothing to add to it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In this phase of budgetary consultation, the administrative reform is also traditionally being discussed, and I would like to focus on this reform of the AVG, which was adopted unanimously on Tuesday. What does this administrative reform mean for the economic location of Austria, for business start-ups, for jobs, for employment in the country? Are there more than 1,000 jobs? Is there an additional 10,000 jobs? Are there more additional jobs? - I am not exaggerating, ladies and gentlemen, when I say that a large amount of administrative reform has been achieved here. The instrument management can be better operated, is less obstacle and more engine that drives. If Mrs Schmidt has said that there can be no administrative reform, so there can be no trace, no matter what, then I have to say, I understand this from the zeal of the opposition, I understand it politically. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: No trace!]] I believe that the fact that the FPÖ itself is politically demoldering means that the Liberal Forum will again find certain segments. But the fact that this major AVG work cannot speak of administrative reform cannot be claimed politically, because, ladies and gentlemen, administrative procedures will be simplified, accelerated and discounted. For example, large-scale procedures are being reformed with more than 100 participants. And yet legal protection is observed. The new technical possibilities such as e-mail can also be used offensively in the administrative process. Measures to concentrate procedures and to improve procedural planning will also be put in place, for more compact procedures. And what is particularly important and, in my opinion, perhaps the crucial element is that it is a decisive change in the administrative procedure at all, namely a new design in relation to the authority - citizens, authority - parties, authority - affected, authority - applicant, authority - neighbours. Ladies and gentlemen! The new relationship is fair, but still sets limits. The Authority says: Now comprehensive advice has been given, heard, involved, discussed enough and reviewed, and now the decision is taking place. The Greens have a special sensorium in terms of citizens' and neighbouring rights, and that is a good thing. And it is quite a certificate for this novel that the greens of this novel are also in agreement. Just to the Genesis. It's a parliamentary work. Of course, it was a violent exaggeration when Mr Kopf was celebrated with Hurra-Rufen on Tuesday. The starting point is indeed an initiative proposal from the head and colleagues, actually head and Chamber of Commerce, because the original proposal has brought benefits to businesses alone, but a massive impairment of the citizens. The SPÖ draft, ladies and gentlemen, then brought things into the right lot, and finally it has come to a common ground: the commonness of science, ministerial officials, mandates and club staff. And all of these are thanks and acknowledgment. And without spraying too much pathos, I would like to say: A new time begins for the Austrian administrative procedures. Ladies and gentlemen! I'll come to the end. An employee of the FPÖ club has also become exemplary, has available and demonstrated skills and knowledge. To do this, we must congratulate you. I wish this FPÖ employee that he should not be involved in these ludicrous bulwark contracts of political mandates, which Dr Haider is planning, and that this capable employee should not be involved in these demarcation certificates for so-called freedom politicians. I hope that this employee will not have to cooperate in these constitutional, criminal and business violations. I wish that this employee should not be involved in this political and moral depth of recent Austrian Parliamentary history. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I wish that this employee should not be involved in the totalitarian claim for power of a clearly outrageous party dictator.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e2546	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Haider. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e2561	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! So we have seen two measures in this Parliament, and I would like to thank the President for his "fair" presidency. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Bravo, we can be "stolz" on it!]] Over the course of this week, there have also repeatedly been sharp attacks by the liberals towards other colleagues, and each time the President has immediately called for a warning. But that seems to be the way it is. I do not therefore want to deal with the omissions of my previous speaker, who will judge themselves, but I would like to say to the budget some things that are essential in that respect, when I always hear from all the speakers of the government parties that the budget is unlikely to be good, the debt is going back and the Maastricht criteria are reached, and so on. I'll tell you: Budgetary policy is not self-evident, but budgetary policy aims to regulate economic conditions, social conditions and employment aspects for the economy in Austria in the form of framework directives. The budgetary policy is, as it were, the government programme cast in figures. If you look at this, you can see that a dramatic decline in public investment in the budget will destroy jobs. There has never been such a deep state of investment, of provision for investment as it is now. The second thing to note is that this budget can only be financed if a maximum burden is set on the population. Austria is that country within the EU, which is far above the average of the tax rate - with more than 45 percent we are far above the EU average - and that means that in recent years, since 1995, some 147 billion schillings have had to be carried out in addition to the tax and tax burden on the Austrian population. And this budget also contains new burdens. This, of course, means that a maximum of burdens will also result in a decrease in mass purchasing power, because, in particular, the mass of small and medium-sized incomes is affected and thus jobs will be destroyed. It has also occurred that the present budget will continue with the framework legislation on the path of rising additional labour costs. You do not do all you actually promised. The industry has meant that the government has, in turn, broken its promise to reduce additional labour costs. - That's it. This is at the expense of employment. But on the other hand, you have used these additional revenues to put in place actions for which there is no understanding at all: 50 million schillings more for increasing political relations. To do this, the "small" people have to take all these loads! Or: Tax gifts amounting to 600 million schilling to the credit institution and Bank Austria because, in the course of a financial audit procedure, it has been shown that these are tax problems, VAT problems associated with their credit card company. There is a law of its own, giving 600 million shillings of VAT revenue. I really wonder, Federal Chancellor and Minister for Finance, which is why You want to justify such a gift policy if you simultaneously increase the burden on the population by 30 per cent and more and therefore ask the masses of citizens sensitively to cash! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It also notes a dramatic increase in the burden on the EU in this budget. Austria has reduced net contributions in recent years by receiving agricultural subsidies that flow through the budget, which officially reduces the net burden on agriculture. However, this is due in 1999, i.e. Austria will not have to bear 4 billion schilling in net load in future, but 16 to 17 billion schilling in net load. - And the budgetary policy knows no other answer than to put on the tax and tax screws again more firmly. You have not saved your bureaucracy, but you have actually taken only a sham. I'm telling you this quite openly. You have not reduced the bureaucracy, but you have reduced the benefits financed by the bureaucracy, such as in the social field: from the care allowance to the reduction of the care allowance and the reduction of the allowance for disabled persons. You've cut it short, but you haven't implemented any administrative reform! I would like to give you an example of this so that the situation can be made concrete: The labour market service has 130 employees in its federal office. However, the 100 officials who have done this work so far in the Social Ministry are still working. Is that the "administrative reform" you're talking about? It is also the fact that the largest computer project in the framework of the AMS and the Republic is charged with more than 3 billion schilling to carry out the networking of labour market management. After three years, however, it is still not possible to pay out the unemployment support contributions supported by the computer! The instructions need to be carried out manually! Is that your way of "bureaucracy reform"? - Because If you do not bring this together, cut the allowance for the disabled, remove the care allowance, reduce social benefits - and call it a decent policy! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You're fleeing from responsibility by saying: Administrative reform means dissemination. - That's the biggest nonsense there is at all! Administrative reform, as you do, is not a privatisation, but rather a flight from responsibility so that the Austrian Parliament no longer has any control at all, so that the Court of Auditors can no longer examine and that you can continue, as you have done in recent decades, to drive Schindluder! That's it! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is also said to you by a respected journalist, the editor-in-chief of the "Salzburger Nachrichten", Ronald Barazon, who, in the recent issue of the magazine "Volkswirt" in the Volkswirt analysis 1998, says the following - I read it to you -: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Karlsson]] "In truth, the state budget was not rehabilitated, but the population was scrapped. In fact, one has not removed the weaknesses of the state, but has weakened the whole of the Austrian economy." This is in the recent issue of the magazine "Volkswirt". You can read this, Mrs Colleague, if you do not believe it! And there are also quite other things, such as: "The social restrictions result in a reduction in public expenditure, but are, in fact, only a further reduction for those involved in these benefits." - That's what you did. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Herbs.]] - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Please understand that I have no contact with such a primitive person as you. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Mr Feurstein said here: People across Europe ask us: How did you bring together such a low rate of unemployment? - It's easy to say. Why is the unemployment rate officially lower than in other European countries? - Because in Austria we have a system in which early pensions are introduced in the case of long-term unemployment, in which there is a pre-retirement scheme for thousands of people, such as now at the post office. Whether the posters want or not: They are pushed into the early retirement, because people can no longer be brought to an early retirement. At the post office, this is about 10,000 people. There is the rule that school leavers do not appear in unemployment statistics if they have never worked. There is also the provision that those who apply for a pension and receive a pension advance are eliminated from unemployment statistics. And all those who are in a work foundation are not officially regarded as unemployed. Therefore, if you sum this up, not 300,000 or 350,000 unemployed, but more than 600,000 unemployed, which is 16 percent. Then we no longer need to congratulate ourselves in Austria, because hiding the unemployed is really the refusal of the government to deal with the problem of employment. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, let us say the following to you: There can only be another way. You must reverse your budget policy, and you must go on a path that makes Austria competitive internationally so that a dynamic economy can also secure jobs! It can't be like saying, We are in a global economy - in reality, however, we do not take into account the conditions. The first bid to accept these conditions is that you will have to make a tax reduction at the earliest possible time, for the companies that invest, and for the employees who are hardworking and diligent and who increase mass purchasing power. Tax reduction is the command of the hour! In our view, tax reduction is a 5% reduction in wage and income tax at all levels. This would mean that a earner of an average of 20,000 S gross per month would have an annual tax saving of 12 000 S. This is an attractive offer and can also be financed. If I look at the budget at which the Minister of Finance takes some billion schilling from the re-evaluation of the reserves of the Austrian National Bank, I must say: This money is not there for this, but it has to be used for value added productively. And that can only be a tax reduction! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This would give you back part of the money you pulled out of the people with the last savings packages. In the last three years, every taxable person in Austria has had to bear 26 000 S of extra burden. They should be returned to them by means of the tax reform and thus boost mass purchasing power. As a result, we would have a better employment situation in Austria than is the case at present. - That's the one point. The second point is that you must also reward the economic operators that invest. What you have done so far is that you have the burden of retroactive tax laws, which have led to the fact that the investment decision has no longer been voted on and many Austria as an investment site do not consider attractive. We say: The elimination of unabsorbed profits when they are re-invested means that up to 50 000 new jobs can be created in four or five years. If the money the company has earned flows back into the investment to secure jobs, that is the appropriate way - and that is what we propose to you. A company that makes 1 million Schilling profit - and the mass are small and medium-sized enterprises - according to our proposal, and takes out only 400 000 S for private withdrawal, pays 378 000 S in taxes according to today's tax laws for the reinvested profits: Income tax, corporation tax. If he uses our tax model, then if you take 400 000 S privately and tax as income according to the current rate, the rest can be invested tax-free, that he does not pay 378 000 S in taxes, but only 117 000 S. It is attractive to make investments and not to consume the money privately. And that's what we want! Investments that are employment-effective can only be stimulated by a reasonable tax policy and thus also generate a corresponding new dynamic. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I would also like to point out that this policy is coherent in itself because it is also called upon by the European Union, which has already repeatedly been referred to it by its Commissioners. There you do not need to philosophise, as Mr Schieder has done today, whether the liberals make any liability agreements now! Ladies and gentlemen! It is really unique that, so to speak, the "four-bands" in the Austrian Parliament are excited that politicians should assume responsibility. That's the interesting thing! They explain Article 56 B-VG in such a way that politicians' responsibilities are not responsible! And that can't be it! We want responsible politicians who have to stand straight for their election promises. Then there would be no such letter from Dr. Vrnitzky to the pensioners, in which people will lie before the election - and after the election, the Federal Chancellor Vrnitzky has forgotten this election promise. Then there would be Mr Mag. Climate in the form no longer, which, although all apprentices promise an apprenticeship, cannot comply with it. We want those who do not comply with their election promises, who do not comply with their government programme, to be also liable for damage to the population! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is a policy that clearly distinguishes us from you! [[Abg. Dr. Maitz holds a "Kurier" article with the headline: "FPÖ-Klub gave up Rosenstingl millions for speculation".]] And there's nothing for you to do, Mr Maitz, if you keep a taferl above the Rosenstingl if you're one of the biggest citizens with public funding with your paper in the Styria. That's a fact! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I should like to point out, ladies and gentlemen, that even now in Poland there is the possibility of citizens going to the Supreme Court and accusing them of holding elections. I should also like to point out that a few months ago, in France, a French minister was sentenced for not complying with election promises. - And you want to explain to the Austrian people that politics is a responsible business? - We're not going to play there, and we're going to look at exactly how you handle your problems with responsibility when you say: We hide behind an anonymity in the Austrian Parliament, we do not let anyone dictate anything, and not at all by the citizens! - That's the difference to our policy. The liberals are certainly not "marionettes", which are now so much spoken of. But what puppets are those that sit with you when it comes to the force of clubs, about the 0.8/0.5-promille vote, in the course of which in the socialist club Members were even forced to vote for it, although they had a different opinion on it! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Calls of the Abg. Dr. Karlsson.]] What kind of puppets, ladies and gentlemen, are these, for example, in connection with a report on the Court of Auditors on East Funding, which has been in billions, subsidies which the Federal Government has granted since 1981: at least 2 billion schilling for humanitarian services every year! Since 1981, the Court of Auditors has called for a legal basis to be established for this East Funding - but to date, the parliamentary puppets of the government parties have not been able to make a legal settlement in relation to these expenditures in billions - and this, ladies and gentlemen, at a time when the Director-General for Public Security says: If you do business in the east, there's no business today where the Mafia isn't behind it! And you can be authorized to take many billions of shilling without control each year, without any evidence of use, in part in an adventurous form, as has been shown in the Court of Auditors' report, out of the tax pot! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! What kind of thought is behind that, you can see: They really want neither democracy nor parliamentarianism to be effective! [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] You don't need to laugh at that! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Court of Auditors report states that the Federal Chancellor's Office - after years of intervention! ==References== In June 1996, the draft law on the regulation of these eastern credits was notified but at the same time it was accompanied by a letter adding that this draft was already obsolete because the ministries wanted to negotiate something else. But to this day nothing is on the table again! - I can only say: There's evil will in there! I appeal to the Red and Black Marionettes: Do you not believe that billions will be spent by the Austrian Federal Government without parliamentary control, without any legal basis, without a legal basis for doing so without a legal procedure to make it comprehensible? [[Complaints with the liberals]] [[Intrusions of the Abg. Headmaster.]] If you do, you will be credible for us! But as long as you flee spiritually and politically from this responsibility as long as you afford a clubman who is persecuted by the prosecutor because he has mistrusted 33 million schillings of public funds, but still has his mandate, so long as you are real parliamentarians! [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Where?]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e2760	The next speaker is Mrs Bauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e2779	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! It is not difficult for me to resist the temptation to blame me. On the contrary, I do not wish to continue making an advance on the urgent request, which will be dealt with in just a few hours, but to return to the subject of budget, specifically to the chapter on women's affairs. Not, Mrs Federal Minister, because this chapter would be so large - I know you are suffering exactly like all women under it that the budget for women's affairs is not particularly high - but I think it is particularly important to talk about the future of women and future women's policy in the context of budgetary discussions. My colleague, Mr Feurstein, pointed out that the Austrian People's Party was particularly important in the context of this budget, namely education and safety. Both are very closely linked to women's concerns, and it is so - as we are currently discussing the future of women - that education, training, choice of profession, employment and jobs are very essential criteria that we must devote ourselves to in order to identify and shape the future for women. The compatibility of family and profession is one of the most essential points to which we must also make a priori commitment. Social security is also something that we are particularly concerned about by the Austrian People's Party, and we believe that soon we must start to guarantee it. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] We have indeed been successful in recent times - despite all the austerity measures that people have undoubtedly taken, which we have indeed taken note of with regrets - in the social field, in order to bring about a suspension of hardening for women. One must never forget that there is a bunch of measures for women: whether by the Ministry of Women, whether in the social field or in other areas. And it is true that even now, when discussing women's people's desire, we have been confronted with the fact that women in particularly difficult financial or personal situations still often do not know where to go or where to get help. It is therefore important that all those bodies, such as equal treatment attorneys, such as women's homes, such as women's advisory bodies, receive state support and subsidisation, which they need in order to provide advice and assistance to women on the ground, or at least to be able to listen to them. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Feurstein has also said this: The AMS has taken over new tasks, and it also has to put in place new and more efficient measures for women who also take action. Social and women's policies are therefore particularly mixed. However, from this point of view, I would like to say that, in this House, too often, of course, because it is urgent, we are often talking about the subject areas that are covered by reception mechanisms and repairs. However, we should also start to conduct the discussion in principle. I am pleased that my colleague from Lower Austria, Lese Prokop, has commissioned a study for the country of Lower Austria, in which women are questioned and are to be worked out how effective women's policy is, in the direction in which they are to go, how individual measures are adopted, where women in families are most often pressured by the shoe, especially as far as life with children is concerned. We have - although not so concrete, but still - given orders on the occasion of the women's popular desire in the form of resolutions, of which I wish they would soon be fulfilled in order to have effective documents in order to make the future way for women a positive one. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Since security is a particular concern for us, I would like to say the following, Mrs Federal Minister, and you also know it: I say that we should start to think about self-sufficiency for women as soon as possible. In any event, it will take 30 to 40 years until it is actually so far that women come to their own age insurance. I would like to express once again our particular desire, namely the so-called compensation, which, if we come to an independent pension scheme, is only a temporary measure. A corresponding request, tabled by us, is still in Parliament. This compensation would help those women who have raised children for the most part of their lives, have cared for sick relatives, and have often refrained from self-employed work in favour of the husband and the family, and then, if they themselves are often thrown out of the family’s network, which would require family solidarity, in an appalling way by divorce from the family association. The men often behave very bad and do not feel at all responsible for what they would be guilty of the wives in the civil field. It is not just us from the ÖVP, but above all the employees of the Social Security Offices who are alarming and alerting us that these cases are getting more and more. In this case, it is not about the poor families, but about families who are financially in a very good situation. This is only a matter of moving as financially as possible into a new phase of life for personal reasons. It does not matter to those concerned; the state should do something with those women who remain there. Here we have a model that would be commonplace, which would at last call for the responsibility of men. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I have said it very often from this point of view: The state can take on many things, but it is not necessary for it to jump everywhere, but we must have the courage, together, to demand the men's obligations to their wives. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is therefore very, very important, Mrs Federal Minister and my honourable ladies and gentlemen, that we should soon start the discussion on this independent pension scheme for women, but also the compensation - or the splitting model; as we call this model, it is subordinate - to include in these considerations, because it helps precisely those who are always called poorest, but when it comes to concrete assistance, it will be denied. We are in favour of giving women around the age of 50 and older a corresponding pension scheme and giving them a decent life in their last part of life - at the expense of men, of course, that must also be said. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! There is no doubt a much wider catalogue of wishes for women, but I believe it is important that we take a substantial step yesterday in the budget accompanying legislation, and that is the most serious and most urgent point of all.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e2880	Mr Grabner referred to an actual correction. Ladies and gentlemen, please start with the facts you want to correct. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e2898	Ladies and gentlemen! I am correcting Mr Haider, who claimed that I am always going to the Olympic Games at the expense of the Austrian Olympic Committee, and I am also correcting his statement that I am a "marionette". - That's really not true! Mr Haider has deliberately said the untruth, and I will prove it. First: Here I have invoices of 92 000 s from the Austrian Olympic Committee. [[The speaker holds two papers in height.]] Secondly, This is my bill from a travel agency in Kitzbühel. Thirdly, I have also shown this to Mr Grollitsch. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: What about Atlanta?]] As far as Atlanta is concerned: First: I've got an invoice here. As evidence, I refer to the Olympic Committee where this invoice was paid. Secondly, And in this context, I have written off the advertising costs at my financial office. And thirdly, As far as Athens, the World Championship in athletics is concerned: Even there, of course, I paid everything myself. Again: Mr Haider has deliberately said the untruth here! He's supposed to ask his club colleague Grollitsch, whom I've shown the bills. Ladies and gentlemen! That is really not the way to speak in this House!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e2937	The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e2981	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! In the context of today's budget debate, I would like to return to the questions - they are certainly dramatic enough - and start with the subject of popular support. It's embarrassing. [[Abg. Grabner: He flies with the helicopter – and the others pay it!]] The promotion of groups is not marked by the funding of helicopters. The promotion of groups is an issue I would like to highlight here. The approaches have been shortened, and substantial additional tasks have also been put on the budget approach of popular support, namely the aspect of press promotion, newspapers and private radios in minority languages. That means: Approach shortened, additional tasks - and this in the light of the fact that people's issues are always great in Sunday's speeches. The accompanying music: The People's Advisory Board for the Slovenians has been in need for weeks because its term of office has expired and no new advisory board has been set up. Result: The requests for support cannot also be consulted in the Advisory Council. This is apparently a pleasant side effect. The reduced appropriations do not even have to be spent because there are no recommendations from the Advisory Council. This is a way of dealing with budget approaches, which is simply intolerable because, contrary to what is announced in government declarations, what is claimed in Sunday's speeches. In reality, the funds are cut short and the laws in question are not even properly implemented. It is not surprising, then, if it has not been possible to integrate in Article 7 of the Treaty of Vienna the commitments entered into directly into Austrian constitutional law so that the state of course, namely the careful handling of groups of peoples, is imposed on us exclusively in international state agreements, rather than being direct, direct Austrian law. The second point I would like to highlight - it is not directly, but it is related - is the Constitutional Court; my club woman has already spoken about it today. Everyone continues to press around to finally refer clear positions to the question of dissinting-opinion. The survey on this - it should have taken place already, it has been postponed due to coordination difficulties - will now take place in September. I am very concerned that everything that will take place in Austria from the middle of the year will be fully covered by the great use made by the Presidency in the European Councils. In other words: In September the survey may take place, but the Federal Government has the excuse that, unfortunately, it is not really able to get involved because it is so hard on the Council Presidency. I have the suspicion - and therefore I mention this today from this point of view - that this September date of the Federal Government is not so unpleasant at all. The fact that there is no unanimous opinion on how to deal with dissinting-opinion in the future is, I believe, well-known. The more important it would be to get a result in an open discussion. However, open discussions are not what the Federal Government loves. That would be transparent for the disunity of the Federal Government. Therefore, one prefers a September appointment, a hidden discussion. If, after the time of the Council Presidency has passed, one goes back to the matter, one will be told that one has already discussed it in September, and I am very sorry. This takes place against the background of a small provision that was apparently created by the Federal Government under the heading "access to law". Although it is not even relevant to the budget, it is not even relevant to the complainants concerned. This is a 2 500-S fee for complaints to the courts of public law. You know very well that you did not introduce this in order to clean up the budget, but to reduce the number of complaints. It is, in principle, quite a legitimate interest to reduce the number of complaints to the courts of public law rather than to keep them high. But this can only be done if you fix the causes of the complaints - and not by building financial barriers to the complaints. The fact that the Federal Government is going to prevent complainants from making complaints by building up a financial obstacle is all about the attitude of the Federal Government, and also about administrative reform. Because the administrative reform has already been adapted several times here, I consciously agree with it once again: The AVG-Novelle, the novelle to the general procedural laws, has already been a positive step. This is not enough, however, but it is also necessary to deal with the organisation of the organisation of the federal authorities. We need a new Federal Ministry Act. Finally, we also need terms such as project organisation in public administration, not just line organization. We need to make accompanying efficiency checks in public administration a regular case, not once in a while. As long as this does not happen, as long as the Federal Government is not prepared to use modern, including management tools within the framework of public administration, it is totally unbelievable as far as its right to administrative reform is concerned. Moreover, the fullness of the increasingly increasing laws does not, of course, contribute to the administrative reform: The more laws are inserted into the administration, which, of course, need to be implemented according to the principles of the rule of law, the more the system is overburdened, without the reform of the organisation of the system, without the reform of the organisation of the procedure, and without accompanying control. In addition, legislative texts are passed that are incomprehensible. The citizens who are subject to laws do not even know exactly what to do when they read certain rules. So this is not an administrative reform! Administrative reform is not only service posts and establishment plans, it is not only service rights, where there is also a lot to be done, but administrative reform is primarily the task of considering what resources and for what purpose are to be done. And there's nothing going on in fact. At times, something is being distributed, and that is how it is hidden, but whether it is going to be a process reform, we leave it open. I recall, for example, the long-standing plan of the Federal Government to withdraw and merge the three weather services we have in this Republic. - Nothing's happened to this day. The Austro Control, the former Federal Office for Civil Aviation, has been subdivided, transformed into a GesmbH and provides weather services for air traffic. But there is also a military weather service. Interesting. And there is the Federal Office of Meteorology. And in principle, all three do the same. Faith You're telling me: The weather in St. Pölten and in Zell am See is completely the same - regardless of whether it registers, measures and logs military personnel, austro-control personnel or personnel from the Meteorological Experimental Institute. Only the personnel costs are partly fully asymmetric. If you as a young meteorologist or young meteorologist start with perhaps one or two careers at Austro Control, then you will find that you can expect very sympathetic starting salaries far beyond the 30 000 S. But if you have the wrong that you come to the Meteorological Experimental Institute, you will find as a fully trained meteorologist with professional experience that you must be happy if you skip the 20 000 S Code with your initial content. - Both do the same, and both are employees of the public hand, only one is distributed and the other is not. This calls for transparency, for streamlining and for reforms. It has been said, since this government ruled in this constellation, that in all declarations of government it is a declaration of intention to do something in this regard. Three weather services for the small Republic of Austria! That there may be some military specificities, I still accept, but that will be solved by a particular form of process organization, not by a separate unit of organization, which itself measures temperatures and air pressure, for it is the same for military personnel as for civilian personnel. In addition, this would also have a location aspect, because this high cost, which we are making senseless, makes the use of airports more expensive than it should be. I'm sorry. If the Federal Government is not able to do something here, but at the same time presents budgets and is famous for their savings, then one must mention it from this pult. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Finally, a last minor point of view. Matter is important, but the point of view itself, when I put it in the middle, is small at first: A particular form of "partailing" of the Federal Government can be seen in the fact that it does not write certain budget approaches into the budget. Then the budget looks slimmer, and people think it's all right. To the Data Protection Act: We know that, due to the need to implement EU law, we need to reform data protection law in Austria. We know that our data protection law is partly antiquated in its architecture and needs to be fully modernised, in particular in the services involved, high-grade personnel needs, because at present several functions are carried out in the personnel union, such as the complaint agency, the advisory body and the legal authority. These are all the same people, and you know very well that this does not correspond to the principles of separation of power if one has to complain to the same people who have previously issued the permits. Therefore, for these reasons, but also for other reasons, there would have been a budget approach to the costs of reforming data protection rights - but there is no such one. It's probably going to be written into the matter law somewhere, by organizing a small budget overrun law at the appropriate time, so to speak. But budget truth is not that. If one already knows at the time of the creation of a budget that a certain cost position will come, then one has the right to write it in. If you do this in a company at the balance sheet if you do not Using your entire knowledge when creating a balance sheet that you have at the time of the balance sheet creation, the balance sheet is wrong. And a budget in which an issue is not included, which is already known at the time of its creation, that it will come, is wrong. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] It's a small position, but it's defying - and that's where data protection is not about any secondary matter, but is a central matter for the further development of a peaceful, a civil, a liberal, an open society. So it is not a matter of which we can say that we have completely overlooked that, this has yet to be adapted to the EU, which has been overlooked in the Ministry of Finance. The fact that the reform of data protection rights is in place at the latest in autumn must be known to everyone in this Federal Government. This must be a matter for everyone, including the Minister for Finance. But that this does not happen in the budget is all about what the Federal Government thinks about such questions. And this is not a good prognosis against the background of noise attack, Rasterfahndung et cetera. - Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e3037	Mrs Dr Karlsson is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e3053	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen. In fact, I would have expected that, after these really unimaginable accusations against Mr Grabner's colleagues, Mr Haider, he would come out and apologize. Actually, he's gotten out of it. I hope that the next speaker of the FPÖ will make this apologies, yes, I ask, because this must not come to light: Exciting the most evil strain under the coat of immunity, and then not a word if the evidence has been given that all of this has been invented and hypocrites - I don't know where you've got it - simply sneaking out of the plenary and pretending as if nothing had been. [[Abg. Aumayr: You have to say that!]] [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP, the Liberal Forum and the Greens.]] I would also like to turn to Mr Mentil, who, obviously, has gone before the public as a whole, who has resigned. He is still on the agenda today, and no report has been received from the main electoral authority. Although it is not in the house, it is purely gag-like and so it is still a Member, with all the rights. What happened? Where's Mentil? Did he relinquish his mandate now, or did he not relinquish it? It would be interesting to see him in the house maybe. But now, after these unfortunately necessary things... [[Abg. Scheibner: That the news is not yet in the house does not mean that he has not resigned!]] He has not yet returned the mandate, but he has given up to the public, including in this House, that he has put it back. It's in the newspapers, isn't it? Where's Mr. Mentil? What did he really do? Will he relinquish the mandate as he said it, or will he be playing the "Pradler Knight Games" yesterday, and today he's got his head up again - yesterday the head was off, today he's back on it. And once again, we're playing it all again. But now back to those things that have to deal with us here. I want to focus on the public prosecutor's office and on the public prosecutor's budget, because every schilling that is spent on the public prosecutor's office is a well-used schilling. The People's Procuratorate is a recognized institution of this Parliament for control. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] People's lawyers want to spend more money on making them even more aware that they are becoming even more accessible to individual citizens, and this is very welcome. And the People's Procuratorate... [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: To spend more money is not welcome!]] I think that if it goes in the right direction, more money should be spent, for advertising that the public prosecutor wants to do now. However, the Public Procuratorate also has problems resulting from the restructuring of the general public's competences. I have tried to question this on the occasion of the report of the Public Prosecutor's Office, but perhaps it was too short, and it has then been interpreted as though I were against the people's lawyers' control in the distributed establishments. On the contrary! I have only a differentiated view in this regard. The companies that are now being distributed and, so to speak, exposed to competition, such as telephone, power supply, mail and so on, are then private competitors and have private competitors who, if they want to do so, are not subject to control. They could defend themselves because they are controlled by the Court of Auditors, by the public prosecutors, but they should compete with Globalnet or whoever, at least with companies that are not controlled, where there is no possibility of complaint. On the other hand, regulation authorities are created according to the English model, such as now for Deutsche Telekom, who are sitting somewhere that no human knows and who actually watch over the companies working. What happens to consumers or employees there, especially consumers, is not a matter of concern. In England, there is now the first green paper on the effects of utility privatisation, as the English call it electricity, gas, water, transport, telecommunications, and the toothlessness of these regulators. Only a small example of this green paper concerns consumers: The privatized electricity suppliers were required by the regulators, by this authority to spend 2.5 billion pounds on grid maintenance and for consumers. In reality, they spent 2 billion pounds instead of 2.5 billion, and the rest has flowed into shareholder dividends. The network is linked to shutdowns, all possible problems for consumers and high prices. - So we don't want to. It is not true that this privatisation allows consumers to say: Today I'm going to this telephone company, tomorrow I'm going to that one. As a consumer you have to have new paper printed, give all people the new phone number and so on. This is associated with considerable costs. Instead of a linear extension, one should consider the following, and this also corresponds to what Bruno Kreisky had in mind at the time with the creation of the People's Procuratorate, namely the Swedish Ombudsman system - there is the Justice Ombudsman, the Consumer Ombudsman and so on - which really has bites and which everyone is afraid of bringing at least one bit to Austria. It would be appropriate to consider extending this well-established, well-known public prosecutor's institution - as a control authority and, above all, as a contact authority - which is the great advantage of the public prosecutor's office - to the areas of supply that have now been distributed. There's a rethinking possible. I would recommend looking at this green paper. However, I believe that this would be a useful opportunity. Even if Mrs Schmidt is against it, I believe that any schilling would be useful. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e3132	Mrs Mag. Mag. has now been reported to the House. Kammerlander. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e3147	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate! Mr President-in-Office of the Council! This is really a "stressing" budget debate, I see. That may also be the case... [[Abg. Ing. That's up to you!]] No, I think that is because we are discussing the budget for next year in May 1998. This does not give rise to a particularly burning interest in the public, because the interest in nature is rather focused on how the budget will continue to be affected for this year or there. This is a bit of a prelude to 1999. - That, I think, is one reason why it's a little laborious today to bring a dynamic in here. The second reason is that it is just lunchtime - a particularly ungrateful time to make budget speeches. [[Abg. May. Posch: There are also the midnight times!]] I'm coming to women's policy. I would like to refer once again to the women's advisory bodies which I mentioned during the budget debate in November, and I would like to make a direct reference to them. In my speech in November, I explained to you the importance of the women's advisory services, I explained what tasks these bodies are carrying out and what they are doing. In particular, I have pointed out the field of vocational guidance courses, return courses, advice and care for women seeking employment. These women's advisory bodies are under a very acute financial pressure and have to get their money from at least ten different posts. That alone means a very large administrative effort. I also told you at the time that there is the final draft of a law to anchor the women's advisory bodies in comparison to the family advisory services in the budget. Again to the memory: Although the women's advisory services have been budgeted a little more on the part of the Ministry of Women in the next budget, I would like to stress this too, this is in no way comparable to the family advisory services that fixed 110 million schilling in the budget and no longer have to worry about a large area of their activity. Some things still give me to think about, and I would like to point out that. On the one hand, Mrs Minister, I have heard that before you can befriend yourself with the thought that there is a legal anchoring of the women's advisory services, you want to carry out a demand survey and once you find out how great the need is at all. That's always sound good, but I've become loud with the word "necessary investigations". These women's advisory services have been available in part for ten years. In ten years, enough experience has been gained. There are enough studies, there are enough studies on the need for women's guidance services. There are enough analyses on how effective the work is. There are enough studies, there are enough numbers, for example, how high the rate of women who can actually enter the profession because of the courses these women's advisory centres conduct. But one thing makes me skeptical, one thing we have learned in women's policy: that the need always really arises when the institutions are there. They cannot determine the need where there are no women's counsellors where such facilities are not yet comprehensive. You can only do that when the facilities exist. Then you can evaluate that, and you will see - and we have also done this experience -: The longer such facilities exist, the higher the need, because the level of awareness naturally increases, this also increases the interest and facilitates access for women. That is, if you first want to do this investigation, this demand survey, and then you only want to find out if you can befriend yourself with such a law, then that means a delay of a year. This means that the women's advisory bodies will have no certainty, whether they are financially insured or not, for a year again, and probably even in the next budget for the year 2000. But that also means - and I therefore come to my second concern - that they are once again at great risk in the work they are doing. We now have the National Employment Plan. We discussed him here two days ago with your fellow Hostasch and Gehrer. You probably know exactly - I think you have contributed - that this National Employment Plan contains all the measures that are good: Vocational orientation courses, return courses, orientations, consultations, everything is inside, I don't want to list it all now. But you should also know that these are all areas in which some of the last two years have had to be drastically saved, because of your reduction policy, because of your savings packages. I would also like to read a few examples here, just like your colleague Hostasch, because I sometimes think that you, as ministers, are a little far away from practice. Otherwise, you would not say on the one hand - and you do - that this National Employment Plan will change a lot, but on the other hand you will not be able to answer clearly what the financing looks like. We know that 1.5 billion schillings are available, but this is not much more money than it has at least been nominal for employment measures. We know that there has actually been less because, for example, the AMS alone has had to deliver the 7 billion schilling to pension insurance every year. Nor can you tell us - it is not in the National Employment Plan - how much this money is spent on women's employment measures. Nor is it concrete how these measures will be evaluated, nor does it stand within how you will react in a five-year period when after a year it appears that the distribution may not be according to your expectations. But let's go through the list quietly. Vocational guidance courses had to be set up many times, were to be reduced by those bodies carrying out them, and these are primarily women's counsellors, women's service facilities. The re-entry courses had to be partially cancelled by various women's advisory bodies, because the AMS no longer has available funds to do so. The special courses, such as management courses - an example from Graz - had to be cancelled because there are no resources and no more possibilities. There were dramatic cuts especially in the area where it would be particularly necessary, namely young people, girls. A number of vocational guidance courses had to be set up - exactly the focus you have set, which we have wanted and which is really extremely important. In particular, in the area of girls, the courses, the support for school leavers had to be reduced. And what does that mean in the mirror of what we have been discussing in the last half of the year in connection with women's desire? Let us bear in mind that 50 percent of women only have compulsory schooling! Especially in the area where it is a matter of enabling school dropouts to come to school or vocational training, the women's counsellors have had to reduce the measures because you are unable to make the appropriate funds available to them. But also in an area which is particularly sensitive and which you especially like to stress, namely that of childcare, had to be dramatically saved. It is not enough and it does not help to make 600 million schilling available for childcare facilities on one side. That's important, I want to emphasize - but it's not enough. In fact, it is not enough if the special childcare allowances for re-primary women need to be partially deleted or, for me, completely absurdly, are no longer given when women return to the same service provider. What a logic that is, I don't understand at all. Women who were in Karenz and return to the same service provider and have no other childcare facilities are not paid out by the AMS anymore because they have dedicated anything - I don't know when and where - otherwise. I could continue this list. We have enough letters, documents, calls for help from the women's counsellors, from women's service facilities, from associations that carry out such measures. They say they can't do that anymore. You can't just do these courses anymore; Advisory activities are also no longer financed. These are only financed more through the AMS if the AMS also implements them directly. I don't think that's an advantage. This is not only a local centralization, it is also, in the special case, no individual advice, no longer possible in the depths of consultation, if you know the operation on the AMS in practice only some way. All these measures show that the situation has worsened dramatically for those women who want to get back into work, who want to return. So much for me - I don't want to be black-painted at all - to see in this National Employment Plan only something that could be optimistic about me, I must say: I don't see it. I don't see it! As I said, 1.5 billion without more precise allocations for which they are, will again result in the individual groups entitled to have the rightful claim, which are also mentioned in the National Employment Plan being taken into account, being further played out among themselves when it comes to the allocation of funds. I can only say what I said during the discussion on this National Employment Plan. Theory and practice are far apart here! I have also given my impression in this debate on the National Employment Plan, which is that Mrs Hostasch does not necessarily make himself very strong when it comes to women's policy concerns, because otherwise there would have to be a different look, not only in the National Employment Plan, not only in the field of the AMS. As mentioned by the side, the following is interesting: The AMS is a pure male domain, since there are no women in leading positions, there are hardly any women sitting in positions who decide who is assigned what resources. [[Abg. Wormitzer: That's not true!]] This is an interesting detail by the way. This is quite a measure which can also be forced into action in a ministry, namely that there is an actual quota. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Hagenhofer! Hagenhofer! Mrs Hagenhofer! Mrs Hagenhofer!]] - Please? - A woman, a woman in nine federal states! I don't know how many AMS jobs there are in how many districts, but only one woman! That's really touching! [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: She's sitting there, and she doesn't notice you!]] I have the impression that Mrs Hostasch does not transport or perhaps support women's policy concerns in the Federal Government. But I do not have the impression, Mrs Minister, that you are the one who says in connection with the National Employment Plan and, for example, in connection with the women's advisory services: This is my concern, which is one of the most important and central concerns of me! I told you that already in November. You could only profile yourself with that. They could show how important it is to ensure that women's policy concerns are indeed represented across the board. But if you say now that you are conducting a demand survey, and you will then see it at the beginning of 1999, you have not done this. On the contrary: You have once again put yourself in the shadows of your male colleagues, the Minister of Finance, the Chancellor and others - instead of showing your own profile in a matter in which it would have been urgently necessary!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e3250	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Prammer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e3268	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I am therefore so spontaneous about the statements made by Mrs Mag. Mr Kammerlander reported that she had today sent a partial message of a meeting with the women's services offices, which took place with me only yesterday. There I conducted a very long and very detailed conversation with all 30 of my consultants in women's service stations. Unfortunately, there was only one part of this discussion, this debate on the very important issue of the situation of women, especially in the labour market. In fact, as far as women's services are concerned, it is essential and important to me that there is a surface cover. I really don't need a law that secures me 600 000 S for 30 women's services a year. They get this money anyway, because this security has all 30 women's services. But I know how many people, how many women in Austria do not have the opportunity to visit a women's service office because we have many "white spots" in this area in Austria. That is why I have actually commissioned an evaluation because I am convinced that the women's services in Austria work very differently, because they have different structures. It probably makes a difference to support and accompany women in Vienna or in Tyrol in some distant valley. I believe it is important to consider when laying structures which other infrastructures are necessary to ensure that everything is properly embedded. I say that this basic work is necessary first of all by an autonomous body in order to also have the best possible data and information material in order to be able to go to the best possible level of structure. I am also convinced that it is important and necessary - in the sense of the self-conception of women's services - to present itself as an autonomous outsider and not only to evaluate what has happened to date. This means that it will be very important for women's services if they can, so to speak, at the university level - because there they will also be done - show how good and efficient they work. I also got the question asked yesterday in this conversation - it was put on the table so to speak - how at present the situation of these 30 women's services, which exist, is common in Austria. In fact, in these women's services, the situation of women in the labour market is not the best. I wasn't surprised about this statement either. On the question of how the funding of the women's services itself now looks or goes on, there was the answer that although one or other course does not take place, no extension has taken place, but also de facto no reduction has taken place. That's what I received yesterday's information. I believe that there are, in part, very different descriptions of the problems. What was very important to me yesterday in this information discussion was that - I was very pleased because it also showed the efficiency of women's services - it was not about women in women's services, but about the many "normal women" - under the lead marks - who are pushing on the labour market, who are unemployed, who need support and who, above all, also need the best possible work. For this is the umbilical and the essential! I am also aware that our National Action Plan on Employment can be seen in particular on equality of opportunity for women. Last week, Mrs Kammerlander, I was in Belfast for two days, where, for the first time, all the ministers of equality and women within the European Union - at the invitation of the British Presidency - met for the first time, where we shared with the responsible Commissioner and director of the Directorate-General, Flynn and Larsson, for two days, how women's policy is currently taken into account in the individual national action plans and what would be desirable. I was very glad that Austria is united - uniform! - to re-establish those countries which have already done their homework from the point of view of women's policy. But we have understood that it will be necessary to work together to intensify, intensify and intensify all efforts. We all know that unemployment can only be solved in Europe if solutions are also found from the point of view of women's policy and employment. For example, Austria is one of the few states that provides almost all 19 guidelines for women's quotas. Most of Europe's countries have not seen women's policies in any way other than the pillar of equal opportunities. In other words, the first three pillars are usually without special reference to the situation of women on the labour market. I think that will also be the important and essential challenge. At the beginning of the Austrian Presidency there will be an informal Council of Ministers for Labour, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities in Innsbruck, together with Mr Hostasch and me for the first time. In other words, we can also make corrections and adaptations to these national action plans in the sense of equal opportunities and better opportunities, and also set them up for the next few years. Finally, the following comment: Child care aid under the labour market service is an important tool and can also be found in the National Employment Action Plan, which is to redefine and redefine it, because there are certain injustices as regards childcare aid. For a woman who has never left the profession, who does not do so well-paid and well-dominated work despite small children, cannot from the outset apply for child care support, while others who have interrupted their professional training find this opportunity to support her. That means that, from the point of view of justice, the issue of childcare aid will be re-examined in the near future, and that is also the intention of the Minister of Social Affairs, and I will certainly support it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I do not think we should be colouring, we have to take the situation seriously, but I do not allow anything that goes in this direction to be presented from the outset as inefficient, impracticable or not in the right direction. I think there will be a great deal of effort to overcome the problem of women's unemployment in Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e3342	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister. Mr Kröll has spoken. Speech time: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e3364	Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. High house! I would like to dedicate myself to the budget chapter on approaches to sport, but now I would like to point out that, of course, the detailed implementation of the sport will be presented to our sports spokesman, with my friends from Carinthia certainly voting in Olympic terms, which is based on current reasons. With my contribution to the debate today, I would like to focus on people with disabilities in sport. To this end, the approach in the budget itself, estimated at 617 million, of which 400 million come from the special sport promotion, is to be chosen as a whole to document how much the sport also means in figures. An amount of 4.8 million Schilling is provided for the Austrian Disabled Sports Association. This one has remained the same for a long time. As soon as there is a bit of room in the budget, I would like to remind you that it would be more than fair to raise the approach in the field of disability sports as soon as possible. The performance of Austrian top athletes shows that investment in Austrian sport is justified. This shows the huge successes in Nagano, I mention only Hermann Maier and the other medal winners in this context. But also in the other sports disciplines - World Cup, European Championships and others - Austria has great successes. The athletes not only bring their performance in sport, but they are our best representatives and ambassadors to the outside: They advertise for our country and are also indispensable for the economy and tourism. The project Top Sports Promotion, which is again estimated at 8.5 million Schilling in 1999, is welcome. We must take into account the selection of support here. The importance of disabled sport is also mentioned in the 1996 sports report - not too detailed, but, after all, this mention is clearly to be read. Especially the achievements of the top sports-related area - I am thinking of the paraolimpics of the worshiped athletes - are equal to those of the non-harmed top athletes. In this regard, Austria has also existed in Nagano as one of the most successful nations in the world, and this also has an unestimated impact for the motivation for imitation in the appreciation of the adored in society. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] These athletes achieved great performance at the Paraolimpics. - The Secretary of State responsible for sport is not here at the moment, but he will be right to welcome all the members of the Committee. Numerous events in this field have shown that Austria as an organizer in particular has an excellent organization and thus achieved excellent quality for athletes. For example, I mention the disability games in Innsbruck 1984 and 1988, the Special Olympic World Winter Games for the first time in Europe 1993 in Schladming and in Salzburg, the Alpine sliding championships of the revered in Lech 1996, in order to point out only some important events. The central task of disabled sports in Austria is certainly broadband. However, performance sports only show what opportunities there are for those concerned at all. That is why the great achievements I have referred to have been rightly mentioned in the context of the Paraolimpics. More and more people are being alerted by the outstanding achievements of these athletes to do something in the broad development of sports as well as to perform and contribute as a revered or disabled person. In particular, this strengthens the self-esteem of the women and men involved in disability sports. If, in February 1998, Mr Wittmann, in connection with his appointment as President of the Paraolimpic Committee, has announced that more attention will be paid to the sport of disabled persons, this should only be agreed. It is, however, to be expected and hoped that the connection and networking of federal sports organisations to the sport of the disabled will also be deepened and improved. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Allow me now to point out a special event. You know that I have the honour of holding this honorary office of the President of the Special Olympic Austria since these World Games in Schladming. It is a special honor and pleasure that the Board of Directors for the disabled athletes, athletes of this country, is made up of respectable personalities of sport, politics and the economy, such as Ernst Wolfram Marboe, Dr. Andres, Member of the Council of Europe Ettl, Member of Parliament Dr Helene Partik-Pablé, Director General Leo Wallner of the Austrian Olympic Committee, to mention only a few, but not to underestimate others. This shows what it is possible to do for the disabled. Now in Vienna we can carry on the experiences of Special Olympics and continue the goals. ==References== June - the opening is on 22. June at the Town Hall Square - we expect about 1,000 participants, athletes with caretakers, and 600 volunteers and companions from ten European nations, who will compete in twelve summer sports and two framework competitions. I cordially invite you all today to look at these events. Please do not wrong me that I have also signed with those responsible for the Organization Committee when asking for a sponsorship for such a disabled sportsman. Perhaps it is possible for you to follow this wish! We can use a number of best sports venues at the best conditions through the presence of the city of Vienna and many public authorities, but also accommodation is guaranteed by public assistance, barracks and so on. Unfortunately, since my speaking time is already coming to an end, I would like to thank the private sponsors, especially the families with their athletes and the caretakers in the disabled organisations, whether they may be called "life aid" or otherwise, for the fact that my speech time is already coming to an end at this point. On behalf of all those who work for the disabled, in this case for Special Olympics, I should like to express the invitation and thank everyone very much. I would be pleased if we could see ourselves at the opening or at one of the events. The disabled would be particularly happy.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e3445	President. — The debate is closed. Mr President, you, too, have given a voluntary time limit of 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e3463	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Chancellery also includes the problem of the ethnic groups. [[Abg. Dr. Karlsson: What about the excuse?]] Only a previous speaker today, if I have properly observed, has dealt with this important matter, and there is a lot to be said about this subject. First of all, to the ethnic groups themselves. We all know that there are six recognized groups, and these six groups... [[Abg. Dr. Karlsson: Unsustainable accusations, and then not even have the urge to apologize to a Member of Parliament!]] What is it, Mrs Karlsson? Tell me now so I can hear it too. [[Abg. Dr Karlsson: Mr Haider has accused Mr Grabner of driving through world history at the expense of the Olympic Committee! Mr Grabner has presented invoices, and you have not even apologized!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Wouldn't it be cheaper if you spoke? I have only 8 minutes of speaking time, and the President will hardly let me over. [[Abg. Dr. Karlsson: Excuse me! I was expecting it in my speech!]] - In your word record, but you're still coming, I think, right? [[Abg. Dr. Karlsson: No, I was already! – The FPÖ must apologize to the graver!]] - You've been talking, I've overlooked that. I apologize. I apologize for forgetting that you have already spoken. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals.]] Mrs. Colleague! Continue to the ethnic groups: Not everyone is a friend of minorities and ethnic groups, but listen, even if you shouldn't be among the friends, listen to a little, listen to what there is to say about this topic. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Other calls of the Abg. Dr. Karlsson.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Each of the six recognised groups is included in a People's Advisory Council. There is a fair work in these national councils, but I believe that we must find a way of constructing them differently in the future. At present, the national councils are mainly composed of associations and their officials. The complaint from the members of the ethnic groups that what is reflected in the national councils is not really representative of the ethnic groups is becoming more and more apparent and less observable. It will have to be added that in a kind of pre-election or original vote, one will have to consult the national councils, all of them together, as the peoples and their families really imagine, and not as one or another organization, who wants some kind of association. In addition, individual national councils with regard to the associations which are in their ranks with their representatives are strictly composed of black and red according to the proportion. In this context, I can only refer to the Croats in the Burgenland, where this is strictly observed, a bit is the church in place, but otherwise it is ÖVP and SPÖ associations or their associated associations that put together and form the advisory boards. We will have to ensure - we liberals will not get tired of demanding it - that we continue to impose a different kind of composition, so that the groups will be represented accordingly. There is still a desire of the peoples, as to which there has hardly been any progress so far, and this is the desire for a Viril mandate - a viril mandate in law-making bodies, for example in the state days of the federal states in question, and also in the National Council. Both fail, however, with the resistance of the two government parties, who are likely to fear that there could be a swim of voices that they believe could otherwise be taken for themselves. [[Abg. Wormitzer: This is wrong! Your party...!]] - Then come out, colleague, and announce your party's consent to the Virilman Data in Carinthia and the National Council. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Wormitzer: That's wrong!]] Mr Wurmitzer! Here's the speaker's desk. People's group members are waiting for you to declare your agreement for your party. I'm curious. - The Carinthian Landtag is in demand of you, and the National Council is in charge of you. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Wormitzer: You're next!]] But we liberals have a proposal, as we may have, without really having to overcome the resistance of the ÖVP and the social democrats, that the groups of peoples may find themselves with representatives in a part of the legislative bodies, and that would be over the Federal Council. I already know that the Federal Council does not have the legislative significance that comes about to the National Council, but it seemed useful for the beginning - and we liberals make this claim to us - that each of the recognised groups - as mentioned: six in the number; the Slovenians, the Croatians, the Hungarians, the Czechs, the Slovaks and the Roma and Sinti - recover with a viril mandate in the Federal Council. The number of members of the Federal Council would increase for this purpose. It could be chosen within any group of people to fill in the Viril mandate; this would be a start towards the representation of the recognised groups in law-making bodies. I can also deal with the problem of the ethnic groups outside our borders. We Austrians understand how to pursue a very far-reaching, very positive group policy. We are committed to the fact that we are far-hearted and generous in this sector, although regrettably in certain limits, but we must observe that beyond the borders it is not the same as in Austria. We must note that in some countries it appears that a positive group policy will be a permanent one-way road. As a negative example in this context, Slovenia has been mentioned. Again and again, year after year it has been claimed in Liège that there is no longer any old-Austrian German tongue at all in Slovenia; it is therefore not a question of granting them rights, as happened in the Slovenian Constitution, for example, in favour of the Italians, in favour of Hungary, in favour of Roma and Sinti. Now there is an opinion of a renowned Graz university professor, Professor Karner, who also enjoys international reputation as a coryphae in this sector, with the result that there is very probably a German speaking group in Slovenia, which is very decimated by the events of war and post-war times. I appeal once again from this point of view to the representatives of the Republic of Austria, particularly to the chancellors and also to the Foreign Minister, to ensure that Slovenia, which is committed to the rule of law and democracy, on its way to Europe, on the way to the EU also recognises the minority of the Old Austrian German tongue in its borders the natural rights of the ethnic groups, which must apply in Europe today. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It should not be so, ladies and gentlemen, that we are dealing with our minorities far-heartedly - what we are confessing and what we are not going to get rid of, no matter what is happening beyond the borders - that we believe otherwise not to have to oppose anything corresponding to that in which we think that people's group policy is going on for the long term around a one-way road. It won't be like that!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e3633	Mr Wurmitzer spoke on an actual correction. Deputies! I would like to draw your attention to this: It's just about putting your version in front of a matter. - Start Please give us the facts you want to correct.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e3654	Mr President. High house! From this point of view, Mr Ofner has made the claim that the two government parties would be opposed to the establishment of Virilmandata in the country days. - This representation, this version is wrong. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: You're for that?- Oh, my God!]] Mr. Ofner! In Carinthia, it was expressly the Freedom Party, who opposed a Virilmandat of the Slovenian People's Group in the Carinthian Landtag. The Freedom Party has more than a third of the votes and mandates in Carinthia and can therefore prevent any constitutional change.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e3721	The next speaker is Mr Brix. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e3760	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen, lawyers! High house! In the press release of the President of the Court of Auditors on the accounts of the year 1996, dated 22. In January 1998, President Förder found that the budget was actually a very neat one. I quote literally: While the National Council praised the rethinking towards serious consolidation and the insignificant reduction of the deficit, it had to be made sustainable. President Fierce has said that, according to the 1996 accounts, the budget has been dealt with very well and that we are on the right track. In principle, this also applies to the budget that we have decided in these weeks and days for 1999. I would like to remind you of some of the things that others have said about the 1998 budget from that time on. ==References== Mr Schreiner - apparently already in the white light of the events to come in the coming months - said in January 1998: It is necessary to create incentives to save in order to reduce the structural deficit. - Whether it was explicitly meant by Lower Austria and thus its State Party organization, unfortunately it does not appear. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: His party!]] But at that time he still got strong shooters. On the same day, Member Mentil, a liberal from Lower Austria, spoke of a "ordinary debt bag". I wonder, then, what hellish abilities the liberals had when they talked about the budget. [[Congratulation with SPÖ and accompaniment of the Abg. Dr. Lukesch.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Mr Colleague! That's not a hell of a thing! If you already know about it, that's no more light-seeking!]] - Well, that's actually knowledge. Perhaps they already knew what they were supposed to say that they were being pulled on the tapes, because the then liberal representative from Lower Austria, Rosenstingl, put it on 26 May. In a debate on the Court of Auditors' report on March 1998, it stated that all purchases had been overpriced and that waste policy had been discussed. - At that time, when it came to the Court of Auditors' report, he was probably talking about waste disposal policy in the sense of "honestly" and "freedom". Ladies and gentlemen! This should only be a few reminiscences from this time when the liberals on the subject of budget and the Court of Auditors' report told us some things. It is now becoming increasingly common for many to cry out that the Court of Auditors should examine, thus increasing the number of work done on the staff in the Court of Auditors. And I would like to thank you here, Mr President, on behalf of my group, for all the women and men employed in the Court of Auditors. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But I would also like to say the following: If we demand that the Court of Auditors carry out even more work, we will also have to do so - Mr Firlinger, I assume you will have that too - that more staff will be employed there, because the former will no longer be able to do so alone. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.]] [[Abg. May. Main: You have rejected our request for introduction...!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Then, Mr Firlinger, you will not be able to wager against the officials, then you will not be able to say that there are too many officials, but then you will probably be of our opinion, namely that the officials employed there need special protection. We need a right of service there, which protects those officials who make checks. We by the Social Democrats will support the officials there so that they will have a proper right of service. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] I think it is very important to carry out proper checks in this country. When you hit today’s newspapers, you can see what swamp has spread out in some parties. It's a shame the swamp doesn't shine blue. If he had a color, he'd only be blue! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulation with SPÖ and accompaniment of the Abg. Schwarzenberger.]] But we also have another problem, I don't want to deny it here at all. [[Abg. May. FILLINGER: Let people greet you, Mr Colleague.]] - We'll talk about it. Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! In connection with the Court of Auditors, it would also be necessary to consider finally adopting a modified form concerning the Court of Auditors' raw material report. I've got the "Press" of 4. ==References====External links== "Rechnungshof disintegrates Lenzing", writes the "Presse" on 4 April. ==References== However, the Court of Auditors' report did not go to me personally and also to the other ladies and gentlemen of this House until these days. We have negotiated it yesterday and will not have the opportunity to talk about it until June. One should therefore consider why uncommented raw reports can be published by all the newspapers. It will publish things that have not, in fact, yet been discussed. Or, a second example: Autobahnpickerl, Court of Auditors lists scapegoats - "Kronen-Zeitung" of 11. ==References== To date, there is still no such report. [[Abg. Young:... is revealed!]] - We're already for your maladministration to be revealed. Their "mistake" will already be revealed, I am convinced. You only need to look at St. Pölten, there you have enough work. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] ==References====External links==* Official website ==References== The "Kurier" wrote: "Semmering Tunnel: The Court of Auditors now warns." - Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Political statements are made, as political statements are transported through newspapers, through a raw report, without asking the women and men in Styria or in Carinthia whether they want the tunnel for the railway. Why do we not ask the people there, why do we not let them speak, but scandalize something? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Young: Why don't we ask the population about the euro?- Oh, my God!]] In reality, however, one would take away something from the Steirers, the Carinthian and Carinthia, for why should they not quickly come to their destination? The West Austrians already have a corresponding railway line. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But no, we have a political report relating to the Court of Auditors. This is why we also need to say: It may already be that this Court of Auditors report - which is very important, and we also want to point out - that which is not in order economically - that is what we want - but what we do not need is a political comment on whether this tunnel is necessary or not. This will be decided by the people who live there! [[Further applause with the SPÖ.]] So I'm a little surprised, because there's an invitation - I hope it's only in the form of the entire academy - that's what university professor Norbert Readers said on 8 October. A presentation at the Court of Auditors’ Academy in June, entitled: The political system of Austria is considered critical. [[Abg. Edler: That's great!]] I mean, The Court of Auditors should not consider the political system, but the economics of this country. [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Edeller: Politizing Court of Auditors!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Even if you're yelling in like this: If you had only one spark of propriety - I was actually expecting Mr Ofner to do so - you, when you came out, would have, on behalf of your group, made the excuse that should be expressed to a colleague in this House, because he would have deserved it. Your accusation of this morning really does deny any reason, but that is the way it is: You listen to something, you grab something and throw a - typically honest, typically liberal - dirty patch in the face. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] I myself have experienced this personally, I know how the liberals act. Mr Grabner was put to the vote by saying that he was a Vice-President - he is not Vice-President at all, but that does not matter - at the expense of the Olympic Committee he went to Nagano to the Olympic Games. However, when Member Grabner pointed out the bill here, no one from the Freemans found it worth the effort to say: I'm sorry, we got some wrong information. We apologize for not knowing. If you had a little bit of resistance, you would have to make at least one correction if it showed that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let me now come to an up-to-date issue. We, as it is said, and so I have taken a little bit of speech - which seems to be the government fractions - do not allow those people to declare before the Court of Auditors which we invite. [[Call out to the liberals: so it is! Right!]] Yesterday, there was a broadcast by Mr Wabl. It says, among other things, - I quote -: "In accordance with the motto: 'The truth we determine!' Government members are only invited more than once if, after previous questioning, they consider the survey to be pleasant and useful". [[Abg. May. Firlinger: He is right, the Wabl. He's rarely right, but he's right!]] You don't know, because you weren't there, but that doesn't matter. The main thing is, you're yelling in between! This is about the topic of Endensnahe Traasse. There is no government member who has been invited and whose arrival has been prevented by the government parties! We also decided to load every member of the government who appeared on the cargo list. - First of all. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Firlinger: The opposite is the case!]] Secondly, Mr Firlinger! Take note that, as long as an Austrian People's Party gets the majority from the Austrian people, democracy will also prevail in this House and we will bow to democratic decisions. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Apple beck.]] Please note, Mr Firlinger, that in a democracy which has the majority, it is possible to determine what decisions are being made! And if you want you to be able to make the decisions, then you must receive the majority from the people. But first, in Lower Austria, you have to repay the 50 million schilling debts you've made, and you can't speculate with taxpayers to the Wallner into the casino or somewhere else. We are already happy in the field of sports, when you carry the money into the casino, but don't carry tax money there! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! What this Freedom Party wants... [[Abg. May. Firlinger: Stop walling once!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller.]] It could be, maybe, the money he got when he moved from the middle to the right. He may have been sent a few sponsors for this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For one who is out of democratic circles and prefers to join where he can be pulled on the cords like on a doll stage will already know why he has done this. For he will also have to repay what his party keeper demands if he does not comply with the promises. That's why he had to take something first. [[Interlocutory calls from Dr. Doppelmüller and Dr. Karlsson.]] Please note: In this subcommittee, we will continue to invite those women and men of whom we believe they can contribute something so that we can see how it has been done. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] And take note: We will not allow this subcommittee to become a tribunal of which we believe we can express opinions against the majority on this detour. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: No, but to an institution!]] Austria is still a democratic state, and it will remain in the future. You can be insured with this.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e4086	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Barmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e4104	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and Mr. Volksanwalt! If Mr Brix has been so far committed to the Court of Auditors today, thanking him and saying how great his work is, then you can agree. It is only a problem that I have not yet experienced the fact that whenever we in the Court of Auditors are working through the major activity reports and discussing some of them in the Committee - everything is not directly discussed - some of the majority in this House would have said by the government groups: The Court of Auditors has shown something that is really a problem, and we need to change something. However, I can very well remember that the Court of Auditors' suggestions are simply not being implemented again and again. Look at the activity reports! [[Abg. Silhavy: What is being implemented is even in the report! You just need to read him!]] In particular, it is also within that which is not implemented, ladies and gentlemen, and that is by far the largest field. Just think about the whole area of the housing cooperatives, where it always comes to - a beautiful word since yesterday - painting. In this House, too, we must fight for what the Court of Auditors rightly criticises, as it is its legal mandate, to be actually implemented by the government groups. That is why I believe that whenever the Court of Auditors' budget, which it is supposed to be today, is being rewritten in this way, this House should also consider how it is being used. The Court of Auditors, as well as the People's Procuratorate, is an institution which proposes suggestions to Parliament, which must be made differently. And the money for the Court of Auditors is wasted if these suggestions are not included in this House. However, this is not the Court's fault or, if it is the public prosecutor's suggestion, it is not the public prosecutor's fault, but it is simply the fault of the government groups who are not willing to settle in their own areas with the conditions rightly charged by the Court of Auditors or the Public Prosecutor's Office. We demand from the Liberals that these suggestions be taken seriously and that not a two-thirds majority in this House show itself uninstructable in relation to those work which, on the one hand, Mr Brix is praised as professionally competent and well-deserved, but, on the other hand, is simply not carried out in their implementation. This is the Crux we're facing here. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to speak also to the Standing Subcommittee of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, which will now deal with the path towards the end of the road: Yesterday we had a session where it was about who was being loaded. The meeting took longer than planned, not because of that, Mr Brix, because we did not agree on the load of government members - you rightly said, government members were not on the cargo list yesterday - but it was about the fact that only officials and officials were invited by the government groups. [[Abg. Wormitzer: That's not true! Landesrat Hirschmann! Councillor Pöltl! Where are the officers?]] These are all persons who are to be assigned to the area of administration and who should also provide information there in this context. But the fact that Mr Brix is not prepared to be heard in the Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors shows that an objective presentation of the situation is not desirable, at least the legal representative of those citizens who have obviously been harmed by false, illegal procedures, by unlawful expropriations. [[Abg. Brix: That's where you have to tell the truth! It's the civilian technicians loaded! They're not officials!]] And that's the problem. For if an examination is to be carried out here, both sides will probably have to be heard, and both sides will not be heard because the government groups do not want to allow it. [[Abg. Brix: Because it's not a tribunal!]] This has nothing to do with a tribunal, Mr Brix, but it only has to do with listening to both sides concerned. That's something that's not allowed in this house, and that's bad. Mr Kier would say: And that's a shame. I'll tell you: That is not a shame, this is obviously the system here in this House! And this is wrong and must finally be stopped! If we do not do so, we will always be right to praise the work of the Court of Auditors, but it will not in fact be implemented in political practice. And as long as this is not done, the money that is spent on it is wasted because one really prevents control. This is a responsibility you have to bear. We are criticizing these conditions, and we hope that they will at last be honoured accordingly in elections, namely for your damage and for our benefit. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e4179	Mrs Apfelbeck asked for an actual correction. Ladies and gentlemen, you know the rules of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e4203	Mr President. I am correcting Mr Brix, who here said that all the members of the government were invited to the Standing Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors. - That's not right. This is the untruth. The right thing is... [[Abg. Wormitzer: Who?]] It was not loaded Mr. Commissioner Dr. Fischler, Mrs. Fischler... [[Abg. Brix: Where is this a member of the government?]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e4249	Please let the honourable Members make the actual correction! - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e4265	Mrs. Landeshauptmann Klasnic is a member of government - yes or no? - the Styrian government. [[Abg. Brix: It wasn't on the agenda yesterday!]] In addition: Federal Minister Dr. Schüssel has not been loaded either. [[Abg. Brix: He wasn't on the agenda either! That's not what you're saying!]] Please stick to the truth, that would be good for this House!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e4321	Now it comes to the word... [[Abg. Apple Basin: ( towards SPÖ) Have you rejected or not? Did you agree or not? Don't say the untruth!]] [[Counter-call of the Abg. Brix.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please don't be upset! [[Abg. Applebeck: You can't say it's all not true because you have rejected everything!]] [[Calls at the SPÖ.]] Mrs Apfelbeck, please calm down a little! [[Further calls and calls.]] Mr Morak has time. He looks so relaxed. Ladies and gentlemen, now you are speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e4386	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! - Friends, the theater's a road ahead - I think you should continue that there. The Federal Chancellor is also, as is often said, art chancellors, at least he is responsible for some of the art organization in that state. The Secretary of State is also the Secretary of State for Art, in addition to his obligations for Europe and sport. If we talk a little bit about the art organization in this country - I do it briefly - we talk about the federal theatre reform, we talk in particular about the transfer of the Bundestheater into the legal form of a GesmbH. It is a reform - which is in place and which is, to a large extent, a legal text; the last negotiations still stand out - the largest theater group in the world, one could almost say, the largest theater group in the universe - with the largest workshops, with the most famous opera orchestra, with the greatest amount of technology, lighting and so on. I have read an issue of the SPÖ Club, which is the most important issue for the public advisory board in all the problems and dangers that occur. So it's Wurst whether it's going to be a holding, whether there's a holding at all, it's Wurst, how the GesmbHs are divided, who they're supposed to be, who the workshops are supposed to be, it's important: Josef Cap speaks, also in committee, of the public advisory board. [[Abg. Silhavy: But the audience will be important!]] And this is an advisory body, I would like to say that even the theater directors have "eated". So I'd say it's a little disproportionate if you just talk about it. I'd even say, The SPÖ no longer sees the Bundestheater Ausweissungswald in front of loud public advisory trees. Fritz Kortner used to say: You know, ladies and gentlemen, you have a look for the insignificant, an eagle look for the insignificant! - And if something is insignificant, then if you judge it so in criticism. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This law entails a great transformation of the existing structures. Important for both sides of this negotiation team, I believe, is also important for the people sitting here in Parliament: first, the basic financing of the possibility of houses to continue the operation, to produce the art, today's standard is at this high level, the highest artistic level and not quota - quota is possible, but is not mandatory - second, the artistic freedom of directors and the artistic freedom of the artists working there. It should not be a law - I would like to say that - for those who have so far not missed if they have not entered the theatre, workshops or the association. It should not be a law for cultural bureaucrats who dress up as Bohemia and move through life with it. And I would like to say quite clearly that the performances of the Federal Theatre Secretary-General have unfortunately not had the level of success of the Bundestheater on the free market during the last years in which I have pursued his work, even here in Parliament's committee. The new structures require new people, and for those people who have already jumped through the theatre without ideas, there should be no place after the reform. The goal is not to save, the goal is to give the artistic director every opportunity to make art, theatre art, make prominent theatre art and not to stay in the administration. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is what we are working on, and if we succeed in putting this law on the rails, then, I think, we have succeeded in doing something that is okay. In addition, I would remind the Chancellor that he once spoke about the subject of film. The priority is not to say that it is difficult and that is why we are making a point, but rather to focus on the matter as a matter of priority. [[Rejoicing]] - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e4439	Mr Wittmann has now spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e4457	High house! Mr President. Since a speech has been made here on the federal theatre reform and on the focus of film, I would like to replicate it. [[Abg. Mother: There will be more, Mr. State Secretary!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have therefore sought this federal theatre reform to try to find a private-law form of organisation for a business that manages several billion schillings. In other words, we assume that if we find a form of private-law organisation, the managed funds can be used more transparently and efficiently there. This does not mean, however, that the federal government is deprived of its responsibility to continue financing the Bundestheater or to be 100 percent behind these theatres. It cannot be that the League accepts this responsibility. Rather, it is that he will continue to exercise this responsibility, but finds another structure for this theatre. If you have followed the press reports on our draft law, you have been able to register very well that the public advisory board is not in conflict that it does not give us international fame that it is being rejected at international level, so that it is not exactly the happiest invention. I should like to say to my group or to those responsible for the government that we are not a great friend of this advisory council either, but in the end there will probably be a compromise in this direction. The second question: Holding or not holding. There must be a form of organisation that exercises ownership. Whether this is an administrative authority, that is, a separate department, or a holding company, that is a question of consequence. I believe that a private-law form of organisation of the exercise of property rights ensures greater efficiency or transparency than a separate department, which again has an administrative burden or would represent its own area within the framework of art administration. We have undertaken to keep this holding as small as possible, i.e. equip it with only six to seven people. I believe that it will succeed in finding a very efficient structural programme for the Bundestheater. We will be able to introduce a cost transparency and cost-effectiveness in the Bundestheaters, and these measures will also, in the longer term, relieve the Federal Budget of the fact that future pensions will be transferred to the ASVG. That is, essentially, a preparation for the future. We do not now have to manage savings for the budget, but in future we will be able to achieve certain savings with this organisational structure. On the subject of film, I would like to inform Mr Morak that the 100 million film funding has been increased by 20 percent to 120 million schilling. 20 per cent increases are only very difficult to achieve in a consistent budget through retranslations. And in my opinion, the 20 percent increase in the amount of 100 million schilling is likely to be a focus of film. In addition, the Film Promotion Act has been amended, a circumstance which, as I believe, also shows that a focus has been placed on film. A major performance component has been installed in the promotion, according to which producers of films that have been successful with regard to the cinema bank can automatically claim support for the next film. But also in the artistic field, a performance-related support has been introduced: Artisticly valuable films, which reach or are admitted to certain festivals, receive a performance premium according to a point system. I can also say that, with the merger of the film archive and the Institute for Documentary Film, we have succeeded in forming a unit, avoiding parallel structures and creating a new film archive that is sufficient to meet the demands of our time. A cooperation with the Filmmuseum could also be found, so that further double structures are avoided. The integration of the Austrian film into the film archive thus allowed three structures to be combined into an efficient uniform organisational structure. So all these measures in the film field are not only available in words, but already implemented, so that one can very well speak of a focus film. First of all, they include the processing of our cinematic heritage, second, the award of funding through the revision of the Film Funding Act and thirdly, probably the most important thing for the film industry, the increase of our funding, i.e. the federal funding, by 20 percent. In my opinion, this focus should be demonstrated and made further approaches to increase the budget or to improve the film economy in the future. We are on a step-by-step path, and I believe that in the future it will be time for the success we expect.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e4490	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Reichhold. 8 minutes of voluntary speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e4505	High house! Mr President. Dear members of the government! Dear People's Lawyers! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! The liberals have already made clear the points on which they criticise the 1998 draft budget. We cannot agree to this budget on three points. On the one hand, there are no savings in this, but additional burdens, which affect the Austrians over three years with a total of 147 billion schilling. 147 billion schilling more taxes and taxes means that private consumption is inhibited. This is a sum so huge that it accounts for 10 percent of total private consumption in Austria. This consumption brake, of course, indirectly weakens economic growth and thus weakens the job situation. The second very important criticism is that the stated savings are not real savings. The budgets set out in the draft would increase from 711 to 749 billion schilling in the event of post-disbursement. Nevertheless, you have saved in the wrong places, namely the social weaknesses, the mothers, the youth and the disabled. The next very important criticism - our third point - refers to the extreme reduction of public investment. If the state invests less, then of course fewer people are also employed. This is equivalent to a withdrawal of the state from economic policy! This would have to be discussed in principle, but especially at a time when there are employment programmes throughout Europe, this step is probably scarce and very difficult to understand. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! However, the budget misses real structural reforms. Because you have only done what you started in the early 1990s: Disseminations and sham privatisations, which do not ensure reforms, but only mean moving out of problems that are now to be dealt with. I would particularly like to address one point, namely the question of EU payments, which will become a very crucial factor in the Austrian budget in the future. For, contrary to the original assumptions, the return flows to agriculture are not paid directly to the farmers, but flow over the federal budget. This practice will expire in 1999, after which the funds will flow directly to all the EU funding recipients concerned, i.e. not just farmers. This will also lead to a significant increase in the net deficit or the net contribution from Austria in the budgetary statement. This net contribution in 1996 was still at 4 billion, and in 1998 it was already 15.4 billion schilling. If one calculates these amounts, one realizes that this will become a significant factor in the future. The problems of the Minister of Finance, particularly with regard to the EU's contribution to membership, are also not eased by the fact that municipalities and countries with 7 or 6 billion schilling each contribute their share of EU funding. For those amounts which the countries are paying into the EU are already deducted by the federal government in the transfer of needs allocations, grants and incomes, so that no positive impact on the budget can be expected either. We will therefore already be able to pay 29 to 30 billion schillings to Brussels this year, but only to a very small extent can we influence economic policy. As far as the use of these funds is concerned, it is clear in many areas that efficiency is very questionable. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! These were the main criticisms of this budget. We cannot agree because the citizens are being exhausted because no real structural measures are being taken and because no initiatives by the Federal Government regarding the EU's net contribution can be identified to reduce the membership contribution, as the German colleagues, for example, call for. Let me briefly comment on a problem that concerns agriculture. The farmers are celebrating the 150th anniversary of their liberation. 150 years ago, the peasants were freed from the slavery of the then ruling system. That man we want to remember this year was the representative of the Council of the Kingdom of Sicily: Hans Kudlich. [[Abg. May. Posch: What does this have to do with the Supreme Organs?]] I'll be right there, Mr Posch. He has accomplished the historical achievement of freeing 14 million farmers from slavery. We liberals therefore believe that it is time for this man to be reminded. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That memorial, which was then set up by the Austrian peasantry in Schleswig in its honor, is now abandoned to decay. The restoration of this monument would cost 1 million schilling. Many organizations have already collected donations, but there is still a lack of an amount of around 500 000 S. We liberals believe that it would be at least for this House to make 500 000 s available under this budget in order to restore the memorial to this man, who has such a great historical significance for Austria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We Liberals therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] We have listed this in this proposal. There are no more burdens to be expected, but there are only redeployments that can be made from the expenses of the Federal Chancellery, which forms part of the Chapter of the Supreme Institutions. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e4577	Deputies! I'm sorry, but before you go to your place, you - I don't want to check out, but we've always done this practice with amendments to the budget - have to read about the change in the approach. You have read the second point, but not the first point. I'm asking you to do this.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e4595	The full application is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e4708	Thank you, honourable Member. The amendment has been submitted and has now been properly read. It is supported in accordance with business rules and is included in the negotiation. I now give the floor to Mrs Silhavy. Ladies and gentlemen, you did not require a time limit. I would like to draw your attention to the need to interrupt the sitting at 3 p.m. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e4726	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! With the last novel to the Equal Treatment Act, we were able to enforce one of our long-standing projects by social democrats. I'm talking about the regional offices of the law firm for equal treatment. During the debate on this novel, I still thought that the rejection of the liberals would be justified in the image of their party leader, that of the ruling man and the serving woman. But the request of the liberals concerning the agendas of the lawyers - and some of them are in the ranks of the liberals - appears under a completely different light from the perspective of the case of Rosenstingl or the scandal with the Salzburg Freeman. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Do you have something to say about the budget?]] Those who define dependence on the political objective must fight against independent institutions. [[Abg. Madl: You need to read that? You need a manuscript to do that?]] Thanks to the consistent attitude of social democracy and the tireless work of our women's ministers, the financial coverage of the costs for the first regional office estimated at around 3.4 million schillings is now also provided in the budget chapter of 10 precautions. This will make it easier for women living in the West of our state to have access to this proven establishment. However, the reports of the Court of Justice also show that equal opportunities are not a one-dimensional matter, but are to be claimed or implemented at every level of our co-existence. A key condition for this is the compatibility of work and family. The financial security of the operating kindergarten in the budget also has a model character in addition to the actual effect on the parents concerned. The new financial support from the Federal Government for the creation of additional childcare facilities was mentioned yesterday. However, I would not like to miss out on thanking you, Mrs Prammer, for allowing you to do so again by your use. - Thank you very much. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] How difficult it was to achieve this funding is shown by the attitude of the Minister of Family on the issue of the compatibility of work and family. It is completely incomprehensible that family minister Bartenstein is not willing to help single parents in their difficult situation. A family minister would be obliged to enforce concerns as we represent them, namely, two years of karenz money for single-parents, in his own party and with the ÖVP members. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, when it comes to the question of enabling single parents to secure their living through work, the Minister for Family Affairs fails. I have not noticed any support from him, not even a support of the right to part-time leave for parents until the schooling of children. But back to the budget-effective measures. I think it is quite immense if, on the basis of budgetary considerations, the coalition partner supposedly prevents two years of karenz money from being paid to single-parents, however, the ÖVP women make a request which is taxing the budget and at the same time includes a gender-discriminatory measure. I am referring to the EIA's request for tax deductibility of budgetary assistance. Mr Kammerlander has once again shown us her opposition policy today. It is not possible for her to recognize steps towards improvement. She referred to item 7668 under the 1/1006 approach, which concerns the promotion of women's initiatives, and consequently the Social Minister - by the way this chapter of the budget is no longer the subject of the debate today, but please, obviously, some of the issues he does not know what he is talking about - and the work of the Minister of Women in the worst way. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] I would only recommend calls to you if you understand some of them. That is obviously not the case. [[Abg. May. Stadler: If I make an intermediate call, you won't be heard at all!]] Mr Stadler! When you spoke, you weren't even there, so you'd better be quiet. It would be more pleasant for you and your party if you heard less about you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The "Promoting of Women's Initiatives" item is in the 1999 German proposal with 10 million schillings higher than in 1998. I would also like to mention a special institution, namely the intervention agencies against violence. In this way, social-democratic members of the government, together, have quickly created a aid that is particularly necessary for the most vulnerable people. Finally, I would like to stress on the Women's Affairs chapter that there is a need for a sum of measures to achieve equal opportunities in the future. However, I would also like to thank the Minister for Women's Work, which has once again made it possible for us to decide on new funding options in this budget to ensure women's initiatives and to create the Regional Office for Equal Opportunities. - Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e4809	Ladies and gentlemen! Since it is only 2 minutes short to 3 p.m., I am now interrupting the negotiations on the report of the Committee on Budgets so that the required examination of the urgent request can begin by 3 p.m. in accordance with the rules of procedure. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e4837	Ladies and gentlemen! I'll start the interrupted session again. Request for urgent procedure of Deputies Mag. Johann Ewald Stadler and comrades to the Federal Chancellor on relations between politics and Russian mafia (774/A (E)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e4870	We come to the urgent treatment of the self-employed application 774/A (E). In the meantime, he has been approached by all the Members, so there is a lack of reading through the writing. The urgent application has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e4985	I give the floor to Mr Mag. Stadler as an applicant has the floor for reasons. According to § 74a para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e5001	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. High house! Mr State Secretary! It is significant that the President of the Party and Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, in particular, does not trust himself in this matter in the House. He sends his State Secretary here again. [[Abg. Silhavy: Where was your party leader yesterday?]] Mrs Silhavy! It's a hot matter, as you may have noticed, if you have carefully read this urgent request. [[Abg. It's hot air!]] I understand that the Chancellor is reluctant to deal with these things, just as Mrs Silhavy, who is now leaving the house, because it is incredibly embarrassing for SPÖ and the ÖVP, what is happening here at Mafia swamp in Austria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! No less than the Director-General for Public Security, Michael Sika, said already a few weeks ago in an eye-catching "profile" interview that, in the end, the dictatorship could threaten if developments go on the way he sees them in the East Mafia sector. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Headmaster.]] Mr Koppler! This is a comrade of yours. A decent comrade, Mr Koppler! The decent comrade Sika has written to you in the main book that, if the East Mafia continues so far, then there is a danger of distress. It's been like this for years. I would remind you of the murder of the suspected mafiapate Sergey Hoja Achmedov in September 1994. Or to the next murder, shortly thereafter committed to the businessman Israel truck. Or the sensational murder of Mr. Sanikidse from Georgia, a direct friend of the head of state there, and likely Chief Mafiapate Shevardnadse, to whom the SPÖ has very close contacts. Only a few weeks ago, Mr Praschak's widow was given a break in order to speak to. All of this doesn't seem to disturb anyone in the SPÖ. We're going to the agenda. But if then an internationally recognized mafia expert like Mr. Colleague, like Mr. Jürgen Roth... [[Abg. Leikam: "College"?- Oh, my God!]] Do you mind? [[Abg. Arbitrators: No! Just because you said "College"!]] - Mr. Roth has an idea of the East Mafia. I am also interested in this, ladies and gentlemen, because I want to know how deep you are in the East Mafia and their machinations, you and your coalition partner ÖVP! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Roth did not say otherwise in the Austrian broadcasting industry - and he did not give up a little - than that the former Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany has close contacts with Ostmafia and that under the pattern of the former Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany Vrannitzky and former socialist minister in Vienna, there was a possible environment in which the Ostmafia thrives and feels particularly comfortable. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That's unheard of!]] [[Abg. Koppler: Are you talking about this party?]] [[Abg. Arbitrators lift the arms with questionable facial expression.]] Mr. Schieder! A whole chapter deals with this, I recommend reading page 257 below. [[Abg. Arbitrators: I read it!]] A whole chapter deals with nothing but all the financing operations that your party has to take into account. [[Abg. Arbitrator: He was a letter recipient!]] Who was a letter recipient? [[Abg. Arbitrator: Dr. Vrnitzky!]] Oh, he was a letter recipient? - Now he's already admitted that he's a letter recipient, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Arbitrators: You can't do that if you get a letter!]] So, according to the statement, he corresponds to Schieders with the Ostmafia! I don't correspond with the Ostmafia. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If Mr Vrannitzky corresponds with the Ostmafia, then it is harmless, ladies and gentlemen, then he is only a letter recipient! That also says Mr. Fuchs: He had only been a letter recipient, and he had nothing else to do with the letter bombs. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] It is interesting, however, how the ORF justifys itself after Mr Vranitzky has caused him pity. The Head of Mission, Mr Johannes Fischer, then says that it was not agreed with Mr Jürgen Roth that Roth should mention politicians, ladies and gentlemen. Unfortunately, it was socialist politicians. He apologizes for the fact that, unfortunately, the pan of a live interview has happened, and a journalist of discovery has called a prominent SPÖ politician, who will report to an ORF moderator in the evening and will embarrass this lady properly because he says: I, Mr. Exbundeskanzler! You don't know who you're talking to! I won't let that happen. I'm not anybody. You could have called me! [[Abg. Sweamlein: This is a very cheap rosestingl distraction stem!]] That was the tenor of this interview, my colleague. It has outraged all over Austria - who has seen it - how to deal with a journalist and try to use the state radio to cover up. You're trying to cover up! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Koppler: What you're doing is a distraction maneuver!]] Look, Mr Häuselbauer with multifunctional and multi-income! You won't be able to turn off my volume with or without a microphone. I guarantee you that! [[Abg. Swimmling: We know that you're loud.]] All of Austria is supposed to hear how deep your party is in the mafiasumpf! All of Austria should hear it, and all of Austria can read it if you want! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Your former Minister of the Interior - I do not know if you can remember him, at your short-term memory - your former Minister of the Interior Blecha is able to communicate in a case of abduction of the Chechens. [[Abg. Schwemlein: You can only listen to a health certificate!]] The brother of the abducted victim does not turn to the police at all, neither in Russia nor in Austria, but he turns to Mr. Interior Minister other than Karl Blecha. And see: He arranges a meeting of the patriots, and he is already released for ransom! Since then, this man has had close contact, not only to the businessman whose brother has been kidnapped and who listens to the East Mafia, as Director-General Sika himself admits when he says: It hurts me that Mr Blecha, my former boss, is in business with this mafia. [[Abg. Sweamlein: With you, the firmmate is also a godfather!]] That's not enough, he's still in contact with a superpat who's called Michailow... [[Abg. Swimmling: It was a firmware!]] This is Blecha's firmware? [[Abg. Swimmling: With you, a firmware is also a godfather!]] Your firmmate is that? - Your firm name is Mikhail. This is the environmental name, and he is the head of the so-called "Solnzevskaja". This is a larger mafia family with a total of 5,000 family members in Moscow. These are the business partners of former Interior Minister Blecha, ladies and gentlemen! And that's where the SPÖ says: It's none of our business. I'm sorry, don't you know what I'm saying? - We don't even know him. Blecha has nothing to do with the SPÖ, Blecha and his criminal machinations! [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: And Rosenstingl has nothing to do with the FPÖ?- Oh, my God!]] Yes, I've been waiting for it all the time, Mr. Doppelmüller, to give you all your honor to your name! Mr. Doppelmüller! Now I will call you the next one who has either good contacts to the honorable society or even belongs to the honorable society. Turn your neck around - if you don't have any problems with the tie - and see your colleague Marizzi back there! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Mr Marizzi is flying in private jets of the Mafia in the former Soviet Union, ladies and gentlemen. Just like his former party leader Vrannitzky - the state police have known for months - in Privatjets... [[Abg. Gaal: This is unheard of! Call murder method!]] It will be even thicker, Mr Gaál! Calm down, it'll get thicker. The former Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Kazakhstan is flying in private jets of the East Mafia in Kazakhstan and other Central Asian republics in order to do business there with Mafiapats. [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: This is your method! They're going on my neck!]] Mr Marizzi too; he knows, for I have now given him a copy of this note, and he confirms that this is true, of course. So there was the whole family together: Mr Loutchansky, Mr Lansky and Mr Marizzi Peter from Austria. It's a "net" society. [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] This is the company of Nordex, which was once represented by colleagues Fuhrmann. I wonder how to get to such a clientele. That was embarrassing to him, and he just pushed that clientel off right away. This is Nordex, ladies and gentlemen, which Mr Lansky has been adopting for a long time. At Oswald Kessler, when he was still Chief of Staff, the head of this company tried to reach Austrian citizenship for Mr. Loutchansky. [[Abg. Wabl: ( towards SPÖ, on Abg. May. This is the education policy of social democracy! They have failed, and such failers come out!]] And Mr Lansky is the man who appears in the minutes I read yesterday about how the SPÖ is trying to get access to the judges' posts - so that you can cover up the things that are unpleasant to you! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! This Lord Loutchansky is truly not an unwritten leaf. Loutchansky had been sentenced to a long-term prison sentence in Latvia for murder! - So these are the passengers of Mr. Marizzi, and these are the German Chancellor's business partners. He has founded a company with the help of which a dollar-billion potential has been postponed from the former Soviet Union, together with another company based in Moscow, which is known as the "International Foundation for the Survival and Development of Mankind". That sounds noble, ladies and gentlemen. I have never heard that the Mafia is so noble. [[Abg. Asshole: And you liberals have your social flats!]] This includes Mr Loutchansky and his company Nordex, which has been identified by Interpol since 1993, because of the suspicion of the shift of dollar assets from the former Soviet Union to the West. These are all business partners of Mr. Vrannitzky. He even admits today! [[Abg. Koppler: And your business partner is the Rosenstingl!]] This is on the front page of the "Presses" today, where he says: He knows the President of Uzbekistan - where the cotton mafia is located - so well that he no longer needs any mediation from Mr Blecha. He knows him so well and deeply! This can be read on the front page of the press today. These people then write nice letters. That will be the letters you meant, Mr. Schieder. [[Abg. Arbitrators: No! In the book...]] Oh, he got more letters? So nice letters are exchanged. In this he is asked to take over the patronage of a half-day conference in Vienna. "Patronage" means financing. This conference took place in Vienna, the applicant was then the President of the Republic of Azerbaijan, Geidar Aliev. Then the conference will take place under the participation of Nordex GmbH, a Russian Mafia company, and the following agreement, ladies and gentlemen, will be concluded. It says literally:... as well as the company Nordex participates in this negotiation. On the part of Austria - signed in the Protocol - the intention of using the Austrian export lines for Kazakhstan was expressed for this purpose - namely for hotel financing. The whole thing went - signed by the Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan - to the Federal Chancellor, to the Finance Minister and to the Control Bank. Now we have to look at all these financings, ladies and gentlemen. Innumerable hotels have been built - one of them, I believe, even the German Chancellor's climate has been opened - and export credits have always been secured through the control bank, and it has assumed responsibility for this: Sport centre Gudauri, Georgia - 90 million, financed by CA-BV, the control bank will assume the liability; ABV-Hotel Nowgorod, Russia - 130 million, financed by CA, the control bank is liable for this; ABV-Hotel Metechi-Palace - 150 million; Warimpex-Hotel, Poland - 80 million, CA financed, Control Bank assumes liability; Warimpex-Hotel in Bromberg, Poland - 50 million, the CA-funded, the city of Vienna and the control bank bear the responsibility for this. Ladies and gentlemen! Now we are wondering what those contract breakers who broke into the residence of the widow of the former control bank director were actually looking for, Mr. Arbitrator. Can you give me an answer? What kind of mail have they been looking for, Mr. Schieder? - That's your environment, that's your party! [[Abg. Arbitrator: I'm not a cop!]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: No!]] No, no, no, Not your party? - Now Praschak has nothing more to do with the SPÖ. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is your party and your environment in which the whole thing is happening. Because there are business relations between Warimpex and Nordex, I can prove to you by means of the letter of writing that is available to us, if you want to know exactly. Mr Bausbek and his ABV and the Nordex are in close economic contact with each other. [[Abg. Arbitrator: I don't know!]] You don't believe that? - I can prove it to you. I've got the writing in English. You can do quite good English and translate it. This is clearly understandable, and it goes so far that other decent Austrian companies already complain to us in writing that even the general consul of Austria in Moscow, a certain Mr Freisitzer, is so closely related to the Nordex company - because the company Nordex is financing the musical ambitions on a conductor career of the son of Mr Freisitzer - that other companies no longer come to the train at all. That's how it's going, ladies and gentlemen! This is not only a scandal that takes place within the framework of the SPÖ, in the framework of former Minister and Chancellor of the SPÖ, no, it is also a scandal that is playing very deep into the government. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is still unresolved, you haven't changed anything to this day. There will be nothing to benefit from the whole outrage of Mr Vrannitzky and the whole uproar of Austrian social democracy. That is the problem, ladies and gentlemen. You can see how silent you will be if you keep a few facts - and that's just a part of it! Mr Marizzi! Clarify Your comrades once said that this is only a part of it! You know well in your environment. Clarify them on what is happening there and in what circles Your former Chancellor and Honorary Chairman is wrong! Clarify them with whom you make flights in private jets belonging to the Russian mafia! Clarify your comrades once because they are obviously not yet properly informed of what is happening in you in the government! [[Abg. You son of a bitch, stop it! Stop it!]] As long as it is about tax payment, as long as it is about liability of the taxpayer - whether it is at Austrian level via the control bank or about the city of Vienna - this does not matter. It is also striking how the ÖVP is silent, ladies and gentlemen. Or did you know, Mr Khol, that your Secretary-General, Mrs Grafin Rauch zu Kallat, whose Count Mensdorff to Pouilly did business with Mr Loutchansky himself? - Ladies and gentlemen! I have a letter here that they are interconnected with each other. Did you know that, Mr. Khol? Is that why the ÖVP is silent? Or are you even deeper in it? You then had to release one from your National Council club, but not because of Ostmafia contacts - no! - but because of some subordinate story associated with Mrs. Terezija Stoistis. This is about the former ÖVP member Paul Burgstaller from Styria. Ladies and gentlemen! Pauli Burgstaller had intense business contact, even a joint company with a Russian arms dealer and sponsor of the East Mafia named Anatoli Pisarenko. [[Abg. Koppler: And what about the Rosenstingl?]] Is that what you're saying, Mr. Koppler? - Anatoli Pisarenko has been associated with Mr Pauli Burgstaller under company law. [[Abg. Leikam: This is the recognition for the President of the Court of Auditors!]] With the SPÖ you only need the commissions. That's why Paul Burgstaller doesn't trust himself at the door anymore, because he is still fighting for commissions. That's the background. You have a clean environment there, ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian taxpayer did not deserve this environment at the head of the state! [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: He's sitting in the Rosenstingl-Glasshaus himself!]] Mr Colleppelmüller! If you want, I'll write it for you outside the speaking time. We deal with people who owe something and don't behave decently, otherwise: We'll rule them out! On the other hand, they cover up! That's the difference, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That is also the moral problem. We will give you a new moral bar, which you will not be able to skip at all, ladies and gentlemen! [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I made it clear to your clubman Kostelka yesterday. He has had to take note last night that we already have a moral measuring slat, which is behind the SPÖ - with the ÖVP as an attachment - and it has no chance of drying this swamp, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: You should get yourself!]] Mr State Secretary! Do something to your boss! I would also like to ask you to act as a writer - as Mr Schieder said - but this time for me and for my group. Please point out to your boss that if he doesn't pay a lot of attention now, he will land where his predecessor is already very deep, namely in the swamp of the East Mafia! [[Abg. Leikam: And the Rostingl in Brazil!]] This is a fact which is no longer to be denied by foreign journalists. They can only do that because a Panne in the ORF has happened and it has not been possible to prevent this foreign journalist from calling names of prominent politicians. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If Mr. Johannes Fischer had been able - he today implicitly admits this in the "standard" itself - he would have "turned it off". Then the name "Vranitzky" would never have occurred in the interview. If the interview had not been sent live, it would have been recorded, then the name of Mr. Vranitzky would have been cut out. This is the Austrian way of dealing with these things! Mr State Secretary! Your party has been having problems for years with all this Ostmafia-Clique, which is so far in hand that Members still sit here, although Mr Kostelka would have liked to get rid of, but he does not apply. This leads up to the highest peaks of your party: Federal Chancellor and former Minister. For example, Leopold Gratz was involved in investigations, including your former Minister of Agriculture Dr. Erich Schmidt. I have some of the investigative protocols here, ladies and gentlemen. They all became the subject of investigations, because they are firmly stuck in the swamp, in which the chief of this party, namely the former Federal Chancellor and party chairman Franz Vranitzky, is stuck. [[Abg. Müller: And FPÖ has condemned politicians in its ranks!]] Ladies and gentlemen! If you don't dry this swamp - you should have done that as President Kirchschlager You will not be able to prevent the next party president and the next Federal Chancellor from landing in the swamp, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Bundeskanzler Klima should do this out of self-protection. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: Stones in the glass house!]] That is why we have asked you - and you can read this in our request - at last a draft law as you have already announced - not you, Mr State Secretary, you have not yet announced much, therefore you do not have to comply with anything - a draft law, as the government has already announced, which provides the House with the material and legal basis, so that the funding in the East will be carried out in the future in such a way that the marsh blubber that is going on here will cease. Mr State Secretary! Why, although the Court of Auditors has asked for such a draft to be forwarded to the House since 1981, has your government not managed to present such a bill to this day? So you can cash? So that the environment is preserved? Do you really want to confirm this to me, Mr. State Secretary? Why do you not finally submit a law to the urgent and repeated recommendation of the Court of Auditors that guarantees that the proceedings around Marizzi, around Schmidt, around Gratz and around Vranitzky finally cease, ladies and gentlemen? That would be necessary. That's what the taxpayer expects from you! We expect that from you! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We expect the party president of the SPÖ to do exactly what we have done with our people who are suspected of having something to do with any improper things. [[Abg. Stadler! Talk time!]] If you are willing to exclude Mr. Vrnitzky, Mr. Blecha, Mr Marizzi, Mr Gratz and Mr Schmidt from the party, you can discuss with us whether the SPÖ has also returned to the circle of the decent parties. [[Call the SPÖ:Ready time!]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e5638	To deliver an opinion, Mr Wittmann was represented by Mr Bundeskanzler, Secretary of State Dr. Wittmann. - Please, Mr. State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e5653	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to say that my representative work for the Federal Chancellor is based on the Constitution and is precisely regulated and none of the activities you are demanding from me is mentioned in it. In the exercise of this office, I know very well how to shape my activity. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I mean, the way in which politics is made here, namely, according to the motto: You take some prominent names, link them under the cover of immunity with organized crime and hope that then something will be suspended!, you can in principle reject them, and I find it embarrassing that they will be made! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: (keeping the book "The Red Bosses" in height) This book is not immune?]] Only assuming that something will be left is not enough. So policy in that state should not be made, but the policy that is made in that state should be based on seriality and not on any accusations that can be proved by nothing. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call the Freeman:You should answer the request!]] In my opinion on Mr Stadler's urgent request, I would like to begin with a quote from the motion for a resolution - I quote - that: "There is no need to prove that it is important for Austria to promote and develop economic, cultural and scientific contacts also with the Eastern European reform states and the successor states of the former Soviet Union." This sentence is remarkable because the assessment expressed in it is correct and is also consistent with the assessment of the Federal Government. The sentence is also remarkable, however, because the rest of the grounds for the application do not fit so much because it is exhausted in the usual regulations and speculations. This is unfortunate in that crime, especially organised crime, is a serious problem. On the other hand, the Federal Government has long taken up the struggle at national and international level, and I will address it even further. However, I would like to say in advance that, as is literally stated in your request, I have come back to a wide range of contacts between coalition politicians and people from the Russian Mafia environment. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In particular, the way in which it is tried to blacken up Mr. Altbundeskanzler Dr. Franz Vranitzky by unfoundable accusations and injunctions is totally unacceptable and makes it clear that applicants have every right to divert from their own problems. [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] Organized crime: The crime analyses of many Western European countries show little satisfactory future forecasts on the development of organised crime. Organized crime is becoming more and more a threat to society. Criminal behaviors are no longer only attributed to individuals, but increasingly to entire organisations and are increasingly organised cross-border. Criminal actors also benefit from the free movement of goods, capital, services and persons. Technological innovations are more proving to be extremely practical ways of dealing with criminal offences. In many areas of organized crime, Austria can no longer be considered as a closed area. The increasing internationalisation of groups of perpetrators and cross-state criminal activities requires a more coordinated approach by law enforcement authorities in the European states. In Austria, the share of organised crime in total crime is estimated to be about 30 to 35 percent. In many areas of organised crime, the Austrian security authorities are confronted with a form of crime that has appropriate funds as well as a corresponding logistics. It strengthens the use of new technologies and modern telecommunications. Criminal criminal groups from the former Eastern Bloc States are active in almost all areas of organised crime in Austria. On the Russian organised criminal groups: Austria is primarily considered to be a retreat area for Russian organised criminal groups and a basis for planning cross-state criminal activities. On the part of the security authorities, this trend has been met by the establishment of centrally organised crime control units - that is, the EBS, the deployment group to combat addiction crime, and EDOK, the group of members of Group D for the fight against organised crime. Both special units have also been grouped together in Section II/8, the Centre for the Control of Organized Crime and Drug Crime. This ensured, at the central level, the exchange of information from the various crime areas of organised crime, which ultimately also led to the clarification in Austria of all the crimes associated with organised crime. Austria is one of the leading countries in Europe when it comes to the investigation of organized violence. At this point, it should also be noted that Austria will set priorities within the framework of the EU Presidency for a structured Easter enlargement in order to ensure that the accession of the Eastern European candidate countries does not lead to a reduction in the high security standards in Austria. International analyses and situations clearly show that almost all Western European countries are burdened with the problem of the spread of organised crime. Money laundering: In general, it should be noted that, in addition to the provisions of the Criminal Code, there are also the provisions of the Banking Act which ensure the efficient fight against money laundering. Austria was examined by FATF in 1997 in relation to the fight against money laundering. The audit report gives a very positive opinion on the efforts of the Austrian law enforcement authorities in the fight against money laundering. In particular, close cooperation with Austrian financial and credit institutions has been shown as an example. However, Austria, like other Western European countries, is faced with the fact that money laundering transactions are masked by "off-shore" companies, and in addition, the cash sector or the so-called parabank area is increasingly used as a means of avoiding money laundering operations. In this context, it is argued that Austria will pay particular attention during the forthcoming EU Presidency, in particular to the fight against money laundering, in order to be able to address this internationally organised crime area through appropriate countermeasures by the European Community. Economic crime: In the field of economic crime, security authorities point to the risks posed by cooperation with Eastern European companies. The problem of combating this form of crime lies in particular in the absence of comparable regulatory density in the states of the former Eastern block, partly high personnel fluctuations among the security authorities there and the poor income situation of the security bodies there. In this area too, the Austrian EU Presidency will seek to improve police cooperation with law enforcement authorities in the states of the former Eastern Bloc. I would like to point out once again that it has succeeded in clarifying all the order murders in Austria associated with the organised crime in Eastern Europe, and to illustrate Sanikidse's order murder as an example of what was done by the EDOK's exemplary cooperation with the other groups to combat organised crime in the excellent work of our police. I would now like to deal with the item 1 of your request. Previously, a general comment on the Austrian Federal Government's course of action: Service and official travel abroad of the members of the Austrian Federal Government, regardless of which country, are regularly prepared and carried out in accordance with the international practice, i.e. through the official representative authorities and with the involvement of the Austrian Chamber of Commerce. This ensures that the selection of interlocutors as well as the entire programme design with the internationally usual diplomatic supervision and due to a expertise of the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Austrian Chamber of Commerce. The purpose and purpose of the East Aid measures of the Federal Government is to provide Austrian know-hows for the creation of democratic and market-economy structures in the CEECs and new independent states. Immediately after the collapse of the Communist governments in the CEECs and new independent states, humanitarian aid was in the foreground, as the old economic structures were no longer able to guarantee supply. The principle of humanitarian aid was to provide experienced Austrian aid organisations with financial resources with which aid was purchased in Austria, which were then distributed in the respective countries. These aid organizations were the Caritas Austria, the Austrian Red Cross and Care Austria. It was also possible to exclude the use or abuse of funds on a foreign basis. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: You don't have to read everything!]] With structural assistance, the transfer of Austrian know-how is in the foreground. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Cap has messed up the leaves!]] The support contracts have been and will ensure that Austrian consultants and representatives are used to provide the material and immaterial services provided in the CEECs and the new independent States. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: You are not obliged to read everything!]] In addition, the contracts provide for the Federal Chancellery to pay the funding directly and directly to Austrian companies. There has been no and practically no flow of money in the CEECs and new independent states. On point 2 of the proposal relating to draft law establishing a material and legal basis for support measures in the context of East Aid: In 1981, the Court of Auditors did not provide such a basis for aid in the context of East Aid. This was not possible, either, because the question of East aid arose only after the collapse of the state structure in the former Eastern Bloc States in 1989. At present, there are already material legal basis for the support measures in the context of East Aid. There are the following basics: First: The General Framework Directive for the Grant of Funding from Federal Resources, p. ==References== Secondly, On the basis of point 6 of the framework directives mentioned above, the Federal Chancellor has adopted special guidelines for support measures in the context of East Aid in agreement with the Federal Minister for Finance. Thirdly, In each case, on the basis of the Framework Directives and the Special Directives, a grant contract is concluded, which ultimately forms the material legal basis for the payment of the funding. Apart from the material and legal bases above, an expert group is working in the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs on a general law on the performance of voluntary assistance to foreign states and international organisations. International issues are still open. Since such assistance is provided by the international connex, the expert group is active in the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I have now tried, in a serious form, to answer the allegations and precepts I have made in your urgent request, and have tried to give me these very important topics the importance of which they are entitled to regard the organized crime as a serious problem that should be fought in all its manifestations. [[Abg. May. Stadler: I can prove it, Mr. State Secretary!]] I do not think it is right for names to be associated with those for which there is no evidence, and that is only for the sake of political change. Such a thing can only be done under the cover of immunity. [[Abg. May. Stadler: (keeping the book "The Red Bosses" high) Mr. Roth is not immune!]] I think we are all very well advised when we give these issues the seriousness they demand, but they do not impose on you. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You can complain to Mr Roth!]] There is certainly no solution to this problem in this book.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e5821	Thank you very much, Mr State Secretary. We are now going into the debate. In accordance with Rules of Procedure, the speaking time per speaker shall not exceed 10 minutes, per club shall not exceed 25 minutes. Mr Dr. Haider is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e5842	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr State Secretary! I agree with you that we should discuss this issue because it is important to discuss it in a serious and orderly manner. I have already said this morning that there are, at least, 107 billion schilling outstanding credit claims for foreign loans via the control bank, for which Austrians and therefore taxpayers are liable. Most of these are East credits. For years, the Court of Auditors has required a legal basis for these East loans. The point is that the Director-General for Public Security, Sika, has said in several interviews that anywhere in the East, where business is being done today, is the Mafia. Therefore, I do not understand that Austria does not go out of self-protection and creates a legal basis for the resolution of transactions in billions of years from year to year. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Sika is quoted in Mr Roth's book, which states that he, Sika, complains of the extremely good relations between the Russian mafia and the state decision-makers in Austria. So you can't wipe this off the table. The Director-General for Public Security, the highest security officer, complains of the good relations of the Austrian government with the Russian Mafia. That is to say, once we have to question what is behind this statement by Mr Sika, and that we have to question the seriousness of the statements made by the Federal Chancellor Vranckky, who said on television - I have looked at it again before - in replication of the allegations that he is connected with the Russian mafia: I didn't do any business with them at all! But then I found in the press service of the APA of 23. On 4 April 1993 the Commission adopted a communication entitled: Vrannitzky as a door opener to Kazakhstan, in his succession not only climate, but also the mafia-captured company Nordex. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Look here!]] Then, ladies and gentlemen, I found another letter - which my colleague Stadler has already pointed out - to Mr Vranitzky, Federal Chancellor, in which the Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan thanked for the intensive negotiations of Mr Vrannitzky and for his fruitful visit, and in which he said: On the part of Kazakhstan, on the one hand, as well as the company Nordex, that is Austria, there is a intention to use Austrian credit guidelines on export promotions. Do you know what that means?! - That is to say, the company Nordex, known as a mafia KGB-owned company, is known as the official representative of Austria in this document, is part of the correspondence between the Federal Chancellery and the foreign government. But you're going here and you're saying that's not a problem. That is, Austria is delegating from the Federal Chancellery a mafia company, export credits for which we are then liable to finance and negotiate. That must not be true! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] However, we must know - and I would also like to say this in all of you, as you have said - that in 1993 the head of Nordex, Loutchansky, who has his residence in Austria, refused to enter Canada because of his mafios connections, that in 1994 the same Nordex boss - and Mr Marizzi, who has good contacts with him, will confirm it - has received a ban on entry into England and that in 1995 the Bank of the Netherlands in Austria immediately stopped all business with Nordex and subsequently the First Austrian Saving Casse also stopped all business with this company. In view of that, Mr State Secretary, you cannot go here and say that it is nothing. I could now quote a number of letters indicating that the Austrian government representatives are in a very intensive correspondence with Russian Mafia companies. Then I quote to you the report of the Security Directorate Schwechat, according to which on 12 May. A Nordex delegation has left Austria in May 1994. Who's back there? - Mr Lansky Gabriel, whom you wanted to make the Constitutional Judge, who was negative yesterday and who is the Nordex official, and Mr Marizzi Peter, who is sitting here in Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, who has thus been teaching and running these business. Now I'm asking You really are: How often do we have to tell you that there is an urgent need for information on the extent to which Austrian government agencies are associated with Mafia companies? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Marizzi: Mr Haider!]] You can then speak, I have only 10 minutes, Mr President. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: (in the direction of Abg. Marizzi) I would be quiet now!]] And now I'm gonna tell you something, now I've got a report here. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] This has been all proven material, and the Secretary of State will have to admit that there has been a point-by-point discussion here. Then I have here a report from the Federal Office for Police, office for the Organized Crime from Switzerland. In this report "Organized Crime in the Ex-UdSSR", title 16, 20. In September 1996, the following provision was made: A name is listed, Mr. Batyrev Viktor Vladimirovich, born 1945 in Kursk, residing at Albertgasse 47 in Vienna. He is Managing Director of ABC Conti, who in turn works with Sovoil AG in Switzerland. These two companies are, as it is said, business partners. The ABC Conti GesmbH, known as the company of the well-known Nordex Holding, derives capital refugees from the region of Orenburg in Romania. - First point. Now I'm going to show you a contract, an agreement, which was signed on 8. October 1994 between the Orenburg-Telecom-Gesellschaft and the famous money-moving company, Mafiafirma, which Nordex ABC Conti in Vienna was completed with regard to privatisation. It can be read that this agreement was reached on the basis of agreements concluded in cooperation with Peter Marizzi and First Deputy of the Head of Administration of Orenburg, Mr. Zelentsov, on 31 December. In May 1994 this Treaty was established and - even better - it is based on the negotiations of the Federal Minister of State Economy and Transportation of the Republic of Austria, Mr Viktor Klima, with the competent government office in Romania. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Ah, look here! That's incredible! Please explain this, Mr State Secretary!]] Now I really ask you, ladies and gentlemen: What's the shake? The Austrian government is negotiating with money laundering companies, with Mafia companies, is still thick in business, the climate is itself involved, and here you want to explain to us that all this is a purely private business, although Austrian export credits are used, although the guarantees of Austrian taxpayers are used, although we have to bear liability. I would like to say quite frankly to you: We call for a committee of inquiry to clarify what is really being played here in this government. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] What's going on? How far is this government guided by the Mafia? How far does the Russian Mafia dictate the negotiations in this government today? [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: How bad are you?]] Vrannitzky, then climate! Yes, ladies and gentlemen, if you are not prepared to clarify this, we will have to present some more documents to you in the next few days.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e5965	For business treatment: Mr. Klubobmann Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e5983	Mr President. High house! The document just read shows that the German Chancellor is obviously not only at risk of being drawn into this mafia summit, but is already in it for a long time. I therefore propose, on behalf of my group, the amendment pursuant to § 18 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council: The National Council wants to decide: It will be the presence of the Federal Chancellor Mag. Viktor Klima demands.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e6029	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the request should be put to the vote immediately. Ladies and gentlemen! You heard the request. Whether to repeat again. [[Abg. Nürnberger: No, no, no!]] I put this request for the vote just put to the vote. If you would like to join this request, I would ask for a sign to be given. - This is the minority. The application is rejected. We continue in the speaker list. Mr Löschnak, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e6103	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Leave You start with two findings: First of all: I am certainly one of those who not only take crime developments seriously, but also made an attempt to recognize them in good time and do something about them. I therefore believe that I have a certain right to express my views on your arguments. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Since the fall of the Iron Curtain and since the developments that began to take place at the time, from migration to crime, we have done everything possible to effectively combat organised crime in this state in which law and order were given. We did this early, and we did so by means that were not always undisputed. I'm just remembering, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen: When it came to giving the Gendarmerie a new structural concept, which, for example, had planned to disband micro- and small-posts, because they could no longer take account of the coming developments, because it was appropriate to set up, for example, a unit to combat organised crime in the district army commissions, there have been many - even in this House - who thought that this would be a procedure which would not be justified. Or - to give an example - when it came to developing special units that had already existed, building up or building new ones, there have also been some who have risen up and have meant that this is the Hobby of the Minister of the Interior. He's gonna make a private army, I'm still in the ear. But that's not why it's been done, it's about taking timely action to be able to go hand in hand with the executive in order to make it more flexible so that they can be better aligned so that they can also be equipped with more professionalism. That was why, for example, we strengthened the Cobra Special Unit, which is why, under my ministry, we set up the EDOK Special Unit to combat organised crime at all. - That's the first finding. The second statement concerns your criticism. I am someone - and you will not deny this - who has always taken criticism seriously, takes it seriously, and I will take it seriously in the future, perhaps from other perspectives. I am of the opinion that criticism must also be tolerated, because no one is flawless, no one knows everything, no one can do anything. There are some who believe in knowing everything and being able to do everything, but I do not mean it, I mean the general public, and therefore one has to take criticism seriously, and it is allowed. I have to tell you one thing: What you or some of you, of the liberals, have listed in this house in the last days... [[Abg. Dr. Haider: There's the document!]] I'll be right there. Let us have a bit of a time, Mr Haider. - What some of you have listed here in recent days, that is no longer to describe with criticism, but, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, that is hatred, that is denunciation. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Go into the debate! Don't moralize around there!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Minister! Don't distribute any notes! Clear things up!]] And for that we are simply not to have! You have to say that. [[Congratulations on SPÖ and ÖVP as well as on the greens.]] Now, ladies and gentlemen, on the content of this urgent proposal so that we can discuss it. Yes, equipped with the wisdom of the course of nine or almost ten years since the opening of the east, things look different today, of course, than they looked forward to in the years 1990, 1991 and 1993. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Then you agree!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Then you agree!]] From this time on, ladies and gentlemen, are the documents you are always presenting. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: And from 1994, 1995, 1996!]] There has also been a development. In the short term, Mr Haider, I will give you an example. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Then you agree!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Accept! You're going to be broken!]] If all of this is so simple, and if it all doesn't have a way out, I'll ask you the following: I assume that you did not know anything in the Causa Rosenstingl. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Dr. Khol.]] You always said you didn't know that until 14 days ago. I even believe this because I am a good-believer and a positive person. [[Abg. Leikam: This is a mistake!]] If that is true, Mr Haider, then you will claim: You didn't know that until 14 days ago. Now you know, now you're acting. We did not know one thing or another from 1989 to 1991, 1992, 1993 and have therefore acted in good faith. So why do you measure with two measurements? They use this for themselves. That doesn't apply to us? Where are we? [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] You're right with us. You don't fit in with us. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: I put it down to you!]] That is the real reason, and that is why you have to say that once. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You can agree!]] And let me say something to Mr Roth. [[Prolonged calls to the liberals.]] Unfortunately, I only have 10 minutes of speaking time. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Please agree!]] Let me say something to Mr Roth and his books. I hope, Mr Stadler, you have read the first book and you have read the second book. [[Abg. May. Stadler: I've all been listed!]] Yes, yes, listing is easy, reading is a second. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: One better than the other!]] I am only in the middle of the second book, at page 150 or so. It is not so easy to read, because the author is quite common, never mentions names. You're gonna notice that. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Very concrete: The swamp! The Russian Mafia! The crash!]] And do you know what kind of fear I have? I must also express this to you. I have the fear that you will urge Mr Roth to take the lead now because he is quite clearly being praised. I have a quote from the book Roths from the Internet, from the National Journal. There is also a reading sample, and he expresses himself as follows: "Russenmafia or Jewish Mafia?" [[Call the SPÖ:Ah, look here!]] [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Now we're back on the subject!]] [[Abg. Aumayr: Now we're back on the topic!]] And that is why I suspect that this is so cumbersome and that the Lord Roth is at once someone who is, so to speak, the epitome of what is justifiable, what can be presented in honesty and what can be done in integrity. [[Prolonged calls to the liberals.]] I'll be right there. Ladies and gentlemen! Two observations on the content. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You do not want to claim that the Piper publisher is anti-Semitic?]] There will be differences between the publisher and the author, as often, and I can therefore make this statement. Mr Roth also has a story in his book, in which he writes, for example, that the then Minister of the Interior had succeeded in visiting Russian guns. You, Mr Haider, also meant two days ago that Löschnak is in this mafia sum. You didn't mention me today because you always do it the way you need it, but two days ago you did it very well. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: I've had a time problem today!]] And now I have to tell you the story so you know how it really was. [[Abg. May. Stadler: But you are already responsible for the Oswald Kessler, Minister!]] There comes a delegation from Russians, at the head of the then president of the National Security Council and several seniors, to discuss economic issues here. There three Glock-Pistols will be given to you, from the businessmen they spoke to, and we have done nothing but comply with the legal basis so that this can be all right. And that is enough for Mr Roth to be vilified to be in the swamp of the red mafia. [[Abg. Aumayr: This is still friendly defined!]] - That's Mr. Roth, too! I wanted to tell you that clearly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Because the time is already coming to an end, another note to the Old Federal Chancellor. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Would you like the copyright for "red mafia"? "Red Mafia" you said I didn't say that! Löschnak speaks of a "red mafia"!]] He was several times before state visits, before state travel with us, so with me as Minister of the Interior, and asked if there was something against some person he could meet with who was not official. We've always informed him. Mostly nothing is available. And if you do so now - again: from the wisdom of the eight or nine years of time, it can be described - as if this were just a mafia sum in which the government is stuck, partly still in it, then that is simply not true! For what have they done? - they have done nothing but either support or at all make possible start-ups in the economy, and they have actually done so because they thought they could help create new jobs to secure existing jobs. [[Abg. May. Stadler: No jobs are created at Nordex!]] That's the real reason. And that must have been said to people in this country with clarity!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e6496	Please put the final sentence, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e6512	Mr President. I'll come to the end. Therefore, once again my appeal to you - I know, this appeal is pointless, but I still try it as an age -: Do not try to really take every opportunity to recoup criticism into hatred and denunciation! [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: But this applies to both sides!]] Actually, that's not what people expect. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: This applies to both sides!]] And I hope that they will finally present the bill to you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e6563	Mr Dr. König is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e6581	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Stadler, if I have heard him correctly, said: And the ÖVP is silent! [[Abg. May. Stadler: Yes!]] The ÖVP is not silent, I am out here, and we have nothing to hide. On the contrary: We have - that was the ÖVP, please! - what the Director-General for Public Security is absolutely necessary in order to combat organised crime by saying: It can't be that surveillance in the hotel hall ends! I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, but I'm sorry. On our initiative, this government has launched the noise attack and the grid arrest, and this has been decided in this House. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Great!]] And that's an effective method! Not a report to be given, as you ask. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I must say at all, ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party, that I agree with you that the increase in international crime is a serious and therefore an urgent problem. I know what I'm talking about. I was in the first Committee of Inquiry of the European Parliament to deal with organised crime in transit in Europe. There have also been concrete steps to be taken, namely the introduction of a single electronic system, which is networked and with the help of which one is able to follow the currents across Europe and to draw up risk analyses. This is just an example of the fact that international crime can only be combated through joint international measures. That is why I do not understand that, in your request, you are all very serious about the fact that Schengen would support international crime. That's totally amiss! Through Schengen, please, there are uniform asylum provisions, uniform visa regulations, Schengen provides for uniform border controls with a modern, networked system in which everyone who has become conspicuous somewhere goes into the network. It is totally absurd to say that Schengen favours this. Or do you believe you catch someone from international crime at the border by arriving and finding you: This is a representative of international crime!Unknown term type: "%s".? Europol, UCLAF, the special economic crime unit in the EU, these are the facilities that we need, together with computerization of customs authorities, a single and modern network. This is happening, and this is the only effective way to combat international crime, namely again internationally. It is just as wrong for you to say that Easter enlargement - you are talking about EU experts who say that - is a security problem of first order. The opposite is the case! The countries with which we are now associated, which are to become a member, are already being trained in a uniform way today, are already receiving assistance in the establishment of modern detention facilities and electronics, and those who are not involved, such as Slovakia, have only recently abolished the visa requirement for the Russians. They will not want to say that it is a matter of belonging to it or of wanting to do so, of setting up a self-alignment according to common methods and of already cooperating with the EU, and of making it an advantage. I do not understand how to represent such a thing! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I must also tell you - and I believe that should be borne in mind - that, if you already quote Director-General Dr. Sika, the real crime in Austria, the international crime in the financial sector, is being committed here to bringing large amounts of money to Austria, investing them, buying up companies. That's the real danger. That is why this government has passed a law which obliges banks to pursue such monetary movements, to report them so that they can be reviewed. I can tell you that this is not unsuccessful. I have here a statement by the Chief of Police of Interpol's Justice Office, Josef Dick, who says that the Russian Mafia uses Vienna to make investments here, especially in the real estate sector, and to clean up funds of dubious origin. This is in line with the comments made by Director-General Sika. Last year - please, that's what the Interpol says! - banks in Austria reported 346 cases of dubious transactions at a total amount of 16 billion dollars. Most of the banking operations could be stopped. I must say that this is a recognition, and that would not have been possible if we had not actually decided to take action. What you're proposing here isn't even a big deal. This is a complete misguidement of public attention. If you say that you want a draft law on the material and legal basis for support measures - not for what Mr Haider has referred to here - for export credits, which are not known to be guaranteed by the government, but by the control bank, but for the promotions - then that is nothing at all. It's a mini-area! The major financial flows are decisive. And if you want a report from the Federal Government on the start of Austrian contacts - economic, cultural and scientific relations - this will contribute as much to the fight against mafia as if you are talking to people who have no idea of things in this regard. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I think we have to say today that the chance... [[Abg. May. Stadler: When do you come to count? I have a letter there!]] This is an assumption that is not worthy of your function. [[Abg. May. Stadler: I have a letter there!]] Don't go on such a course! You know very well that this is nothing but a very sad attitude in the context of a serious, important and crucial problem for us in Europe. I can tell you - and I tell you this because you are always saying no: no to the EU, no to the euro, no to Schengen - that only through networking and the common fight against organised crime in Europe can a success be achieved.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e6679	Mrs Gredler is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e6698	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is unfortunate to discuss a serious problem in this way. I see, Mr Haider, that you have to spend a very painful week now, because there is a person who has been candidates on your lists and is now being sought internationally. I think it is very painful for a party to be able to do so. But it may not be meant by you really reasonable and constructive if you, the You yourself are in a really unpleasant situation, now suddenly voracious with the dirt dome throughout the house. This is really not what we expect from a political activity in Parliament. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum, SPÖ and ÖVP as well as on the Greens.]] On the contents of your urgent request. Mr Stadler said he's quoted in the security report. I read the sentence you have in your urgent request: "The share of organised crime, which is particularly favoured by the move from the east, is already estimated at around 30 to 35 percent in total crime in Austria." In fact, the 1996 Security Report states on page 169: The crime analyses of many Western European countries show little satisfactory future forecasts on the development of organised crime. Organized crime is also appearing in Austria. Their share of total crime is estimated to be about 30 to 35 percent. - On the whole page 169 no word of moving out of the East, which particularly favours it! And I think that's objectionable! These are links that I would not make in Austria. They're quoting from a paper that doesn't even stand in it! I would ask you to introduce a little seriosity into your research. [[We welcome the Liberal Forum and the representatives of SPÖ, ÖVP and the Greens.]] Then we go on "... With the enlargement of the EU, another security problem threatens first order, as most Eastern European countries have so far neglected their border protection..." First of all, forget that when we talk about EU enlargement, Russia is not there. Secondly, the Schengen Agreement has been introduced with an information system aimed at addressing potential criminals at the border. Interestingly, so many data are stored in this context that even people who have obviously entered the Schengen Information System falsely are still being stopped. For example, the President of the Bosnian Serbs, Mrs Plavšic, was held in Vienna because she was obviously registered. The International Tribunal in The Hague notes that Mrs Plavšic has never been charged. I therefore believe that some improvements are still being made in this system because data is meant to record people who are obviously not criminal. I would ask you to judge to the Foreign Minister that there is still a lot to be changed. But keep going. - they refer to the Freeman that Vienna has become the "centre of money laundering from the former Eastern states". Why Lock Are you opposed to a change in anonymous savings books - a procedure that is still pending? We have said that we want to abolish anonymity because we believe that the Austrian savers actually have the right to save in proper conditions. They don't need to be covered, because they don't have anything to hide at all! Only criminals have something to hide. That is why the Liberal Forum said at the time: Let's lift up the anonymity! We would protect our savers, and we would protect the entire money market in Austria from criminal activities. They were against the Freedom Party! An example of the constructive work I would like to give you is that there are programmes in Europe, that is, in the EU, which Mr King has already mentioned, to improve the fight against crime in the Eastern European countries. The Falcone programme is suitable to carry out, as it were, an exchange, to better train people or to improve the legal basis in the Eastern European countries. The Falcone programme has only 10 million ECU at its disposal - quite a modest amount. If you take it seriously, then try to increase the contribution of your MEPs from 10 million to a significant amount, so that the people involved in combating crime there also have ordinary instruments or have the knowledge of them. I would imagine that under a constructive contribution. But obviously this is not according to your taste. I come to the last page of your urgent request, on which you mention the following two things: The first is that since 1991 the Court of Auditors has laid down material and legal bases for East Aid. We'd like to see that, too. Since 1981, the Federal Government has really been in a position to lay down legal bases in order not to spend this aid at all, but to use these funds in a controlled manner. You're right. It is only in your first paragraph that you submit criminal acts by saying: "... when starting economic, cultural and scientific relations with the Eastern European reform states and the successor states of the former Soviet Union, that they are made manifest, in particular, in the way in which they are excluded, that these contacts lead to cooperation with organised crime...". That's a premise! I believe that the people in the Eastern European countries are in principle difficult to see and not as a criminal, and we should trust them in principle. They are our neighbours, and they have managed to free themselves from a communist system. They now live in a system that we should really admire, and I do not want us here in this House to assume that any contact with these people is at risk of being criminals. I'd forbid that. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum, the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Which system should we admire?]] Mr Scheibner. — (NL) Mr President, I should like to end with a sentence. They wrote: "It is obvious that this not only endangers Austria's reputation..." and so on. Having By Your Today’s Act It's exactly what you're doing: They endanger the reputation of Austria by defaming our neighbouring countries. I won't be with you!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e6760	Two actual corrections have been reported. I would like to draw your attention to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. First, Mr Mag. Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e6785	Mr President. High house! The King has said that it is an injunction if it is said that Mr Mensdorff-Pouilly, the wife of Mrs Rauch-Kallat, has contacts with the Russian Mafia. That's wrong. On the contrary, it is clear from a letter of December 1993, written in English, that there is a business meeting between Mr. Louchansky from the company Nordex and Mr. Count A. Mensdorff-Pouilly in Vienna on 10 October 1993. In December 1993 he came back to the letter on the production of 1 000 to 1 500 unit prefabricated units, which were obviously to be handled via Mr Mensdorff-Pouilly. There is therefore clear evidence of the business relationship between Mrs Rauch-Kallat's husband and one of the bosses of the Russian Mafia in Austria, and Mr Louchansky.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e6815	A second actual correction: Mr Ing. Reichhold. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e6836	Mr President. High house! Mrs Gredler said that organised crime in Austria does not strengthen structures, as the liberal speaker claimed. That is not in the safety report either. I can correct you, Mrs Gredler. On page 176 of the Security Report, it is written that criminal groups from the former Soviet Union are strengthening their activities, particularly in the field of economic crime and money laundering. It must also increasingly be noted that criminal groups are increasingly building structures across Europe from the former Eastern Bloc. Mrs Gredler! I would ask you to read the security report.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e6871	Mrs. Dr. Petrovic has now been reported to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e6886	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Two preliminary remarks before I come to my real topic, the basics and origins of organized crime. The first preliminary remark: It has been stressed by several previous speakers, by Mr Lösnak and others, that organised crime has been created effectively by means of noise attack and grid investigation. I really can't see that at the best of wills. For if it is so - and I think we are all shocked - that a crime can be committed on the bright day in Vienna City and that organized crime seems not at all to be bothered by what police investigation methods have been introduced here in an unconstitutional way, then this does not exactly demonstrate the efficiency and deterrence of these measures. - On the one hand. On the other hand: It was also mentioned that this government had done everything, for example in connection with migration. - My question is, above all, to those who voted in favour of the sum of my opinion also partially unconstitutional alien and alien laws: If all of this is so, why is there more crime? Is it not rather that you have always damaged small people with these laws and that what you call organized crime is not at all affected by all these laws? With regard to effective measures against money laundering, I can only give Mr Gredler the right. I see no reason at all why we do not give up on maintaining or even even strengthening banking secrecy, which is not so much kept by some - Mr Oillinger has made this very clear in connection with the liberals - at last give up anonymity. Then there is no loophole left for any mafia account, and I think that would really be an efficient measure. Now to the second area, the spiritual foundations of organized crime. The political thinker from Switzerland, Jean Ziegler, in his current book has met with the organized crime, as I mean, as the mirror image, as the side of the medal of this our economic system, as it has always been practised more and more scrupulously since 1989, since the fall of the Iron Curtain. The social standards achieved quickly crumble. Ecological barriers are no longer observed, are only seen as an annoying cost factor and pushed back. What remains is what is already quite uniquely called killer capitalism in the serious literature. An economic system that is literally about human victims, about the socially weak, a system in which human rights, human dignity, the reputation of the person no longer counts. In such a system, which is still being promoted by the rulers, supported by international agreements, it is no wonder that then on the other side of the medal, unscrupulous criminals say: What can happen with letter and seal of the official economic regulations, we can do even better, even more threefold, even more unscrupulous! This organized crime, which you address here, is the absolute side of the medal of a unleashed killer capitalism. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now I come to the urgent question. [[Call to the liberals: request!]] To the urgent request. It is relatively no matter, because what has been submitted by you in the last few days as political advances, requests or applications is so transparent as to recognize an attempt to get out of public criticism. I can only join Mrs. Dr. Krawagna-Pfeffer from the "Standard" as regards the assessment of the sensibility of all these advances: This is in some form pretty much the stupidest thing that has ever been presented and demanded here in this House and also outside of you in press conferences. - But you probably know that yourself. The situation in which you are, as I said, makes it understandable. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] If you are talking about "East criminality", and if that always has the impact that Mr Löschnak has pointed out - East, it may also have to do with the Jews, and that you have a problem with it, we know anyway - then I would also draw your attention to it, honourable Member, that St. Pölten is much more to the east than Prague. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's smooth nonsense!]] You might have to look at the map. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Haider asked how serious government politicians are to be taken, but I ask you: How serious are you to take if, in a party, in a short succession, cases of data clau are no longer known in dispute and completely obvious cases of data clau, cases of data lifting, cases of tax crime, millions of fraud and misappropriation in three-digit million heights, if even the person’s reputation is not preserved in any way. Without wanting to make a direct comparison: You, of the liberals, are condemning loathsome crimes here, the murder of people, and I ask you: Is there not also an advance in maintaining human integrity? Is it really compatible with the preservation of human integrity when leading politicians of your group joke at the genitals? - That's all right! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Does this also have to do with the Mafia?]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: The Mafia doesn't attack the genitals!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Every bedroom is a crime scene!]] They do not want to see this, but such compaction of crimes and convictions, disregard of public funds and the reputation of people is really very, very remarkable! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] Mr Haider, you say that these are all so dangerous companies that have been mentioned here, but I do not find any Member of this House to have such a concentration of documents from such companies as you do. That's what I'm asking you: How do you get all these documents from so many companies? There seems to be some connexe - or not, Mr Haider? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Are you talking about the construction industry?]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] As you have just addressed the construction industry and the spouses of Mrs Rauch-Kallat: So as the party, I would not really talk very loud about the construction industry with the "Holiday Home" and all the other companies. And if one of the next ones on your list in Lower Austria is a legally condemned person for slot machine fraud, then someone against whom a Krida procedure is under way, and if it is true that now the Mr. Machart, who was not quite so ignorant of the transactions related to the loans in Lower Austria, becomes Klubobmann at once with you in Lower Austria, and if Mrs. Rosenkranz, who has already caused a certain sensation by her publications, will now become your country party secretary at once, I ask you: Where was your "clean-up" action, how serious is it all meant? [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There is undoubtedly a serious and loathsome crime. Without me wanting to make a direct connex here - even with those whom you, Mr Stadler, call "ordinary Gauner", I would still make a big difference - I would tell you the following: The spiritual godfathers of unscrupulous business-making, criminal mistrust of public means, these are you, that's the FPÖ!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e7035	Mr Magistrate has also been mentioned in the debate. Schweitzer. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e7054	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is already remarkable that Mr Petrovic is particularly interested in how we have come to have liberals to those documents quoted by my party colleagues. [[Calls to the Greens.]] She wants to know how the liberals get to these documents, but she is not interested in the content of these documents at all. This one is quite remarkable, as I mean. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It was really wonderful to hear that none of the speakers of the "sister parties" of the Social Democrats even tried to deal with the content of these documents. Only the former Minister of the Interior of Lösnak has come up with a lot of ideas. He has said what is in this treaty, in the climate, Marizzi, Zelentsov and how they all may be called, would be right, vote already. It is also true that Loutchansky, Lansky and Marizzi were on their way together to do business. It is also true that the "famous" lawyer, who is always doing excellent work in the SPÖ judicial group, namely Gabriel Lansky, who, as we have heard, has made a proposal on how the judicial system should be undermined, has used Grigori Loutchansky for the sake of giving Austrian citizenship, in his view, absolutely nothing in the way as long as he is serving the SPÖ and its business. - All of this has been recognized by Mr Löschnak as correct, of course, with the addition that at the time it was impossible to know which people it was about. Mr Löschnak, I am right if you say that you have not been able to know which people they are. [[Abg. May. Stadler: But now they know!]] But years have passed; in 1994/95 it was. Now we know which people were who Mr Loutchansky is: that this is obviously a convicted person who was imprisoned in Russia. Only in the following days did your friends make business contacts and have opted for an award of Austrian citizenship to this gentleman. Now we know! What will be the consequences of social democracy towards those people involved in this matter: Lansky, Loutchansky, Blecha and what they all call? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Schimanski!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Mr Löschnak! I do not think you - I want to stick to the facts - that you have known which people it is about you doing business with, but You have found great pleasure in the role of a big donor. They have been able to give this East Aid easy, because there has not even been a legal basis for it. Despite the Court of Auditors' originality since 1981, there is still no legal basis for this, because it is, of course, much easier to act more easily than a big donor with the "red brothers" in the East without legal basis. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Vrannitzky, through his former secretary Praschak, a member of the board of the Oesterreichische Control Bank, who took his life, has taken an intensive influence on lending to David Sanikidze. Is this one known to you, Mr Kostelka? [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: No!]] David Sanikidze, Praschak, Vranitzky - involved in the same action! It should be examined what it actually was about. Or: Vrannitzky and the now disappeared mayor of Leningrad, Anatoli Sobtschak, who has been promised millions for any major square design, an agreement that the German Chancellor has made so wonderful! - What kind of relationships are these? What's that about? All this should be examined in the light of what we know today and, as Mr Löschnak has said, even if there are results of investigation which may be negative, the consequences should be met. Just as my party did, immediately after she received knowledge of these processes. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] There's just the big difference: Our moral claim is that our ethos are higher than those of social democracy and its "sister parties", which do well to avoid saying anything about it. They don't think so! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Peter: Stop, please!]] Mr. Peter screams: "Stop it!" He does not want to hear that in this case there is a straining material for the "sister parties", a case in which high, highest - up to the Federal Chancellor! - Socialists are involved. But of that, ladies and gentlemen, you don't want to hear anything! Not even the "sister parties" want to hear about it. These files prove: The combination of the highest social-democratic politicians with mafios circles is reality! This has already found its rainfall many times in the reporting, most recently on the 12th. May in the evening news of the ORF. This time it concerns SPÖ Chairman Franz Vranitzky. Ladies and gentlemen! I don't blame Vrnitzky, just the following: He and all the leading Social Democrats mentioned above were, as it were, the doorsteps to organised crime that came to us from the East. They were the door openers for the Russian Mafia organization, which today is part of the almost exploding organized crime in Austria. They were the door openers for the East Mafia organizations! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Call the SPÖ:Rosenstingl!]] If Vienna has become the European Centre for International Crime Organisations, as the UN notes - Vienna has become the centre of international crime organisations - then you are a good part of it, ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: It's a naughtiness!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] There is a need for effective cooperation in social democracy at any time when one looks at the file situation: active cooperation in establishing the international crime in Vienna. With the help of Social Democracy, Vienna has become the European Centre for International Criminal Organisations. This is a fact, ladies and gentlemen. Don't get over that! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Call the SPÖ: It's unheard of!]] We're all confronted with this. The safety report, which Mr Gredler cannot read, proves: Areas of prostitution, trafficking in girls, arms, money laundering and also order murder. [[Abg. Dr Gredler: Page 169!]] [[Call to the Greens: There was also the Rosenstingl!]] [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] Mr Löschnak, you know: About 20 to 30 new companies with Russian management are set up in Vienna per month. We should be concerned about this development! Trafficking in human beings exploded from one year to another, by 260 percent, ladies and gentlemen. And they were the door-openers for those who do this trafficking of human beings. That's what we've done here. [[Abg. Koppler: Today's strong!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Mein Ladies and gentlemen! In this context, why has the Federal Chancellor's climate, which always shines through absence in such requests, so far avoided taking an initiative to examine Eastern European negotiating and business partners in connection with the links with organised crime? Why has Mr Bundeskanzler Klima not yet launched such an initiative? I would have liked to hear an answer from him - and not from you, Mr State Secretary! It is clear that there are social democrats up to the President-in-Office of Vranitzky - since yesterday we know - who have come into contact with organised crime in their Eastern contacts - I do not want to assume that this happened knowingly, but unknowingly.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e7292	No one is reporting on this. That concludes the debate. We are now entering a voting procedure, and I ask the honourable Members to take their seats. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 774/A (E) by Members. Stadler and comrades on links between politics and Russian mafia. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to join this motion to give an appropriate sign. - This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e7331	We are now entering into a brief debate on the request made by Mrs Mag. Stoisits, the Constitutional Committee on Reporting on Application 773/A concerning a Novelle to the Broadcasting Act, a period of time until 25. In May 1998, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and After the end of this debate, the vote on this request for a deadline will take place. We are going into the debate. I refer to the maximum business time of 10 minutes for the applicant, then 5 minutes for each speaker. Comments from members of the Federal Government should not exceed 10 minutes. First of all, the applicant, Mrs Mag. Stoisits. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e7358	Dear ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. An almost "never-ending story" is the political discussion about the need - in the New German Politjargon is always spoken of as "need for action" - a novel of the Radio Law. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! That there is a need for political action, none of the parties represented here in Parliament has more strongly supported than the two parties who are now responsible for the fact that this need for action has not yet been realized, namely the two coalition parties. They - that was still under Chancellor Vrannitzky - have repeatedly stressed the importance of giving the ORF a legal basis corresponding to modern business requirements with the aim of changing the law on broadcasting to the ORF, which takes into account the dynamic developments that exist on the radio market, in the areas of broadcasting legislation, so that the ORF can comply with its legal mandate and make use of the appropriate possibilities. SPÖ and ÖVP have not become tired of stressing the need for action in this regard, and it has always been a matter of course - which also makes sense - associated with the upcoming election of intent, which - everyone knows how long the period of operation is now, four years in time - was specified. Ladies and gentlemen! The first round of the campaign of intent - I now deliberately call it "first round" - will take place in one month, according to all the foresight, just as the use and legal circumstances are, the first round will be. The call for tenders for the post of the ORF general contractor was made last week. What has not happened, however, is a reform of the Radio Law, which has long been due. Ladies and gentlemen! Do not believe that the Greens are particularly hard to work, and just keep this tiredness on legal work, knowing that majority acceptance in the House is necessary to ensure that our work we do is implemented. [[Abg. Parnigoni: We did not accept that!]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: Write yes the employees!]] However, we have found ourselves in such an emergency situation and have therefore done what we expect from the Coalition Government for months or years, whatever we read in the Austrian newspapers again and again, that this will happen now. But then it says again and again: There are still negotiations, and then there are dates in Salzburg or elsewhere. Then again the gentlemen from the negotiation teams have no time and cannot come and so on. The long speech short sense: Nothing has actually been implemented by the House, which would only be in line with what the competent member of the Federal Government, namely the Federal Chancellor - media matters are "champions" - has promised for years. That is why a month ago we presented to the House a motion for a resolution summarizing the most urgent points of reform. And we have now also put this into a legislative text and put this request in place. Ladies and gentlemen! It is not too late yet, because if the coalitionary and, above all, the political will is that there should be a novelle to the broadcasting law, then that can happen. I would now like to remind you - and this is the purpose of the exercise - that is to say, ladies and gentlemen - that the priorities of our legislative proposal are very short-lived. What we want is nothing but the largest medium of Austria, the public law ORF, in this market, which is as internationalised as hardly any other industry to give or keep open about development opportunities and to create the legal basis for it. This will create structures - and this also requires legal regulations - that make cost savings possible. There is consensus in the political parties on all the points I am now adding. If you look at the press releases and the various opinions, you can see that the ORF should be given the opportunity to open up new business areas and thus use new media activities. This is something that the law does not provide in the current version - not only for damage to the ORF, but for all of us. A second very important question is that of the efficiency of corporate management. Just as the ORF law is structured today, there is no consistent law of the general intern in the sense of a sole managing director. But there is political consensus that there should be this, and there is a need for a novel. Another very essential point, of course, is the possibility of a modern ordering process - with modern I mean, according to the normal economy - for those responsible; in the case of the general intern, but not only of the general intern as managing director, but also of other senior executives. In this respect, there is an urgent need for reform of the ORF Act. One point which is not so essential as regards business concerns, but which is essential - and it is particularly important to me to note this - as far as the objectives and self-understanding of the ORF are concerned is the question of an efficient representation of the interests of listeners and seers. That means in the clear text: It is about upgrading the hearing and vision representation, not just by renaming it to "public council", but by extending the possibilities that this body has. Above all, it is also about rethinking in the composition of this body. All these points which I have so far mentioned - and these are not all contained in our proposal for an initiative - are points of which I believe there could be a unanimous decision by the National Council, there are initiatives to be taken. We have put forward this initiative with our legislative proposal. Of course, the aim of the request for a deadline is to achieve a political process of expression in the House. The Constitutional Committee, which is responsible for this, must deal with the matter as quickly as possible, so that not only in informal bodies or in backrooms of palais-like hotels - host houses will it not be possible, because general interns and national leaders meet in more finer hotels - media policy is made, but also where laws should actually arise, namely here in the House. I believe that this is a very objective and not with great emotionality, because there is again agreement here that the ORF, as it exists, and the objectives of the ORF are an absolutely indispensable institution to claim Austrian identity. The ORF is now Austria - Austria is ORF! You only need to ask someone on the street how high the mutual identification is in order to get this confirmed. That's very important. The ORF has to defend terrain, so to speak, and it needs our support, the support of the political parties and those responsible for it. The ORF has the right to expand the possibilities and opportunities it has as a federalistically structured company, because - and this is not a question of the point of view regarding federalism - it is a guarantee by its structure that cultural and regional diversity is expressed in its programmes, which are also...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e7401	Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e7417	... - and for that the ORF is to be praised - reflected in its contents and programs. These points, which we are now dealing with in the course of the course of the course of the course of the debate - our proposal is a much more extensive one - are those which need discussion and decision-making. That's why our request and my appeal to you: By your consent to our request for a deadline, give the Constitutional Committee the opportunity to deal with it!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e7447	We are now entering the debate. From now on, the maximum speaking time is 5 minutes. Mr Arbitrator is speaking on behalf of the PPE Group. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e7468	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would like to begin by thanking Mr Stoisits for her confession - I hope also shared by her group - to the ORF and to the signing of the role that the ORF plays for our country. I'll make a full contribution to this. I would like to thank her for these words. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: An increasingly unwholesome agreement!]] The proposal has been allocated to the Constitutional Committee at an early stage and has also been distributed. This request, as Mr Stoisits himself said, is very comprehensive. Of course, it has hardly been possible to look at him more closely in this short period of time. I myself have missed a few points, points that I liked very well, such as the composition of the board of trustees with six members of the Federal Government, with national leaders et cetera, further the reduction of the board of trustees. I also found some other points that I like very well. Of course, you have to look at this in detail. [[Abg. Wabl: This is essential!]] This could not be done today, if one wants to do so seriously, during a house meeting between 12 and 4.50 p.m. [[Calls to the Greens.]] Mr Stoisits said that the request had to be allocated to the Constitutional Committee in order to be dealt with there. - That's right. He's also been assigned to him. [[Abg. Oils: Too late!]] But she also said that a deadline was necessary in order to guarantee consultation there. - And that's not true! The deadline for the Constitutional Committee is limited to a certain period of time when it comes to dealing with the matter. [[Abg. Oils: Under pressure! For God's sake!]] The treatment is guaranteed by the assignment. The purpose of the deadline is to force the Constitutional Committee to do so within a certain period of time. - And there's the problem. Whether to exert such a pressure without reading it is really a very, very problematic process for a parliamentarian. [[Abg. Oellinger: Mr Kukacka does not feel pressured!]] Secondly, The problem lies in it - let us make it quite clear - I am convinced that we will still be able to find ourselves - that on these issues there are, in particular, different opinions within the coalition and also between the Heads of State of the EIA and representatives of our party. It's known. I believe that we will have a positive outcome, but I doubt that these existing differences, which still need to be discussed, can be eliminated better, more successful or more targeted under the pressure of a deadline. That's why: I am positive about what you have presented here, as far as I have read it, being positive about the pressure of the deadline. We will therefore not agree to this request for a deadline.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e7562	Mr Magistrate has also been mentioned in the debate. Kukacka. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e7581	Mr President. High house! Media policy is undoubtedly a complex and difficult issue. I think that's undisputed. [[Abg. Oils: Including private radios?]] This also concerns private radios and all these areas. That is why I think it is worth noting that the Greens are not satisfied with a superficial motion for a resolution this time, but have really made the effort to present in detail a very comprehensive and concrete novel to the Broadcasting Act. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: We are a very constructive opposition!]] I almost wouldn't have trusted you. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: Because you underestimate us!]] So I see that there is a concrete proposal here, and there is no question that we are prepared to discuss this proposal. [[Abg. Wabl: Under pressure!]] Mr Schieder has already pointed out that the coalition is still negotiating this problem internally. I am convinced that we will soon come to a conclusion that a new proposal will be presented to the Constitutional Committee and that we should therefore discuss these proposals together. [[Abg. Oellinger: We can meet in the Constitutional Committee!]] I would suggest this procedure, because no self-employed deadlines are necessary, but really far-sighted considerations, comprehensive preparations and also lengthy negotiations, since these are difficult issues. I believe that the development of media policy has not been planned in recent years. [[Abg. Ollinger: "Absolute"!]] ==References====External links== On April 1, 1998, 50 regional and local radios were approved, and more than half of them are already "on air". We are not only concerned with the ORF reform - of course also with the ORF reform - but also with the development of a dual media system, both with a public and private sector. That is why we believe that this should also apply to television. We also want private terrestrial television providers, and that is why we also want Parliament to deal with a private television law soon. [[Abg. Wabl: A "Kronen-Zeitung" is enough! A flickering crown newspaper is too much!]] This is also being negotiated with the coalition partner, and we believe that both of them should be jointly developed and, where possible, jointly adopted, a private television law, which provides at least a private national television provider, at least with regional windows. [[Abg. Wabl: Probably in the possession of the Upper Austrian head of state!]] Moreover, this is also demanded by the European Court of Justice, which says that we have long been sparse - especially as regards the implementation of the television directive. Of course, it is also about the ORF law, and I think that I agree with some of what Mr Stoisits has said, that it is a matter of defining the ORF's public-law mandate clearly and in time, creating legal certainty when operating in new business areas as well as modern, more efficient management structures and ensuring a federalist and regional orientation of the ORF. Ladies and gentlemen! These are the tasks we have to ask ourselves on this question. We believe that these fundamental questions of media development should be discussed in the next few weeks and months. We in the coalition are doing this. We will then submit a proposal to this effect in Parliament, and we therefore believe that such a deadline is not appropriate at the moment and is not necessary.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e7709	The next speech is by Mr Ing. Meschberger vor. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e7727	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Today appears to be a festival day for media policy: At the same time, there is an opportunity to talk about media in this House. This is a joy, because with the coalitionaries it is almost embarrassing to avoid talking about this topic here. On the occasion of the normal debate one could deal with press promotion, because of this request one can now also talk about the ORF, it is only a pity that both debates deal mainly with failure, which from our point of view have become even too blatant for Austrian media policy. I believe that the areas of monopoly, advertising taxes, terrestrial private TV or the ORF reform can no longer be expressed by many of us, because the same demands are constantly being made, but then again and again, Mr Schieder or Mr Kukacka, come to the speaker's desk and explain how difficult the negotiations are. Everyone thinks it is particularly good; they have not yet been enforced or negotiated. We all know that, on all these questions, we are therefore turning from promises to promises, from declaration of government to declaration of government, from chancellors to chancellors in recent times, but none of these promises will be fulfilled. This has a single reason: In the area of media policy, the major coalitionary parties are concerned solely with the preservation of power and the preservation of power. You may recall the announcements of the Chancellor's Climate last February, in which we were promised under the plausible title "Climas Ansage" that the ORF reform and other things will be more debated and will be decided this year. This is how it has been promised to us last year, i.e. in 1997. These promises, however, have become as empty as the announcements made by its predecessor. The result is particularly sad, because we continue to stick to a monopoly in Austria, which is illegal to human rights and makes us a laughing number in the foreign media, a truly embarrassing "model". This sad result will continue to be maintained. Another thing is that, when we look at the German neighbours, we have to find that we have been in the middle of the media for two years now. We still have the exclusively public-law television area. In the Federal Republic, there has already been the "free TV" from the private side for years, combined with the public sector. Now almost exactly a year ago, Leo Kirch pressed a button and opened the digital age, and he has given us another age as an advantage, that of the pay-TV programme, while we have to listen here in this House to the fact that the coalition has too little time to negotiate things. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: Leo Kirch is not to be taken as an example!]] Mr Arbitrator cannot read the instructions, but cannot study applications. These are the reasons why you are not yet able to go on. This is therefore very tragic because this process threatens thousands of high-quality jobs in Austria, namely those jobs which would result in production, in the production industry around electronic media, which are of high importance in Germany. This is precisely the area where there is a lot of migration from Austria's creative potential to Germany. Everything is being purchased, just to insist on it and to continue to be able to pursue power policy and vanity. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] The real issue, namely the ORF reform, I see as just as urgent as Mrs Colleague Stoisits. This 9 billion Schilling company, this Austrian parade company, is a business card abroad, where we are measured time and again. The high level of identification of the Austrian citizens with the ORF is really at risk here. There is no way to make the necessary arrangements to be able to stand on the market in the future. In the In the meantime, the general intern has also come to an end, in a way that guarantees absolute standstill in the renegotiations. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] We believe that there is an urgent need to talk about these things. In terms of content, we will have to deal with your proposal, but as far as the need for a deadline for this debate is concerned, you will have our support.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e7775	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Barmüller. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e7790	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The request of the Greens, for which the Liberals also consider a deadline to be necessary, is based on the idea of creating, at least in the ORF, a curatorium which is smaller, which is more removed from the parties and which cannot be influenced by them as much. In particular, it should also be more independent of the national leaders, and the audience advisory board, the hearing and vision representatives, should have a stronger influence. However, the central point in my view is the process of ordering the general intern, which is rightly said to be more damaging to the ORF than to the institution. In so far as, Mr Arbitrator, you are formally entitled that a deadline, as you say, will not ensure that an application is dealt with in the committee, because this makes the allocation, but I remember some requests which have been allocated to committees and which have never been negotiated there. [[Abg. Arbitrators: You're right! That's not a guarantee yet!]] - Just like that. Therefore, even the allocation is not a guarantee, but in the end it is only a guarantee that an application will be dealt with. However, as I see it, the government groups will not agree to this request for a deadline, and this is why it should be remembered - as was done by my immediate predecessor and also by Mrs Stoisits - that this area has been debated very often here, but the decision has always been postponed, because the large groups of this House, the government groups, seem unable to agree on how the spheres of influence are to be divided. The Liberals' proposal, although not called verbis verbis, is parallel to what appears to be the intention of the Greens' request. The Liberals' proposal is that, when it comes to the appointment of the general intern of the ORF, there should at least be a call for tender, a hearing and that a person as qualified as possible and not a person close to the political parties should exercise this function. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: That's already in the law!]] Mr Kukacka! If that were already the law, then the order procedures would not be as they are currently being carried out, and there would also be no longer any discussion in the way. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] We are therefore convinced that what has been done so far is simply not enough. We are sure that the Greens' proposal could, as it were, be a vehicle to advance this debate. A deadline of 25. Although very short in May 1998, it is not inappropriate in the matter. Therefore, this deadline request will also be accepted. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e7877	The next speaker was Mrs Petrovic. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e7892	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The background to this proposal for a deadline is that, unlike the speakers of the coalition parties, there was no willingness to bring this matter into the committee and to hold a serious and mature debate there. For four years now it has been envisaged that a law on a reform of the ORF should come. It seems that there has been no agreement between the coalition parties for four years. In addition, the current general intern will no longer be candidates for another term of office. I particularly regret the fact that, at a time when the new occupation should also be regulated, this question does not take place in the context of a current draft law or at least of a likely will-making of this House. This is why, in connection with the search for persons, there is a real risk that they will be due to personal close-up relationships, certainly also because of party policy influences and not because of the question which should actually be at the centre of the question of who is able to best implement the concept to which this House agrees. I really think it is very sad that the delay in this legal question allows for a post-carousel without the objective conditions being clear. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am concerned, as did my colleague, Mr Terezija Stoisits, about the need to have a commercially powerful Austrian radio broadcasting system. We are aware that, in an age of new media and new business areas, the legal basis for Austrian broadcasting cannot remain static and unchanged. On the one hand, we are willing to think about the commercial needs and to come up with real realistic solutions, on the other hand, it is a major concern for us that the public service contract is not going to get under way. I consider it to be non-conform - at least not in accordance with the existing law - if it is increasingly crystallized that, although there are individual programmes - such as Ö1, which is fortunately successful in the market - which fulfils the public-law mandate, it is increasingly strong in other areas that it is no longer possible to distinguish purely commercial establishments at all. I think the ORF's public-law mission is something indivisible and - certainly in different terms - has to go through all the programmes and parts of the ORF. Ladies and gentlemen! In this context, I would remind you that in the Committee on Petitions, we also held a very intense debate on the opportunities of Austrian cultural artists in broadcasting and television, particularly with regard to the Ö 3. It was apparent across all party borders that productions from Austria should not at least be made worse than foreign productions. We want to achieve this goal, as far as possible, even without legal quotas, because we do not want to anchor such a thing into a new broadcasting law. We believe, however, that the question of the share of Austrian production must also be raised in the context of a comprehensive radio debate. I would also like you to agree to this proposal for a time limit and that we will soon be able to discuss a new broadcasting law in the Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e7948	No one is reporting on this. The debate is therefore closed. We shall come to the vote. We are now voting on the request, the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on the motion for a resolution 773/A by Mr Mag. Stoisits and comrades concerning a federal law amending the Broadcasting Act, a period of time until the 25. In May 1998, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this deadline proposal to give a sign. - That's the minority. The application is therefore rejected. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e7987	I will resume the negotiations on the report of the Committee on Budgets. Before I give the floor to the first speaker, I declare that Mr Neisser, in connection with a amendment tabled during his presidency, has been tabled by Mr Ing. Reichhold, Wenitsch and Comrades have decided that the first part of this amendment, namely the proposal 1/02108, is permissible, the second part concerning the proposal 2/50358 is not permitted because of a lack of context. The applicant has been informed and has taken note of this. - Of course, this will also be taken into account in the vote. Mrs Klara Motter has now come to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e8011	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! My dear lady and Mr. Volksanwalt! I regret that the Secretary of State is not yet present, because I would like to focus on culture. I would also like to write to him in the main book that I am very disappointed that he has already spoken after a speech - after a speech by a member of the Coalition Party. He seems to care what opposition politicians have to say on the subject of culture, or he is not here to discuss. This is all the more unfortunate, ladies and gentlemen, if you know that there has been no more culture ministers in the Council of Ministers in Austria for 500 days now. With the government reform in January 1997, Mr. Bundeskanzler Klima's art issues were declared "chef Geschäft". This "chef" art is now 500 days old, and this budget debate on the chapter art I take as an occasion to draw a first but also a serious balance sheet. To date, parliamentarians have not been able to enter into a cultural debate with the Chancellor of the High House, a discourse which I think would have to be held urgently in order to discuss the events of the past months and the fields of tension resulting from them and to eliminate possible maladministrations. Neither on the occasion of the debate on the report of the Bundestheaterverband nor on the occasion of the 1995 Art Report, Mr. "Kunstminister" was present in the Hohe Haus. No matter what templates are available for treatment or which expert hearing takes place: The Federal Chancellor can be represented each time by Mr Wittmann State Secretary. What do I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, is the boss in charge? Can the activity of the Federal Chancellor really be limited to opening up international festivals, such as in Bregenz or Salzburg, or to making important personnel decisions? However, there is also differentiation; the Federal Chancellery is quite different: The Festivals of Salzburg and Bregenz are performed by mass media, that is, open by the boss personally, an internationally renowned avant-garde festival such as the "steirische Herbst", whose media reception is not so intense, but only opens up by Mr. State Secretary Wittmann. Or: While the design director of the most expensive speech theatre in the German language room, the Burgtheater, was still presented by the German Chancellor, he had no time for the presentation of the future director of the Vienna Volksoper. Ladies and gentlemen! To date, it is also not possible to discuss cultural policy guidelines or even concepts for the rest of the legislative period. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: The field of art is not yet in place!]] - Why? Do you know that Mr Morak has already spoken about art? Do you know that the debate on women's affairs has started for a long time and many debates on... [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: The topic of art is still coming!]] When? Today? That's from the old clothes collection. Now I understand you. Only when you have talked is the cultural debate opened here in the house. Thank you very much, I take note of that. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Scheibner.]] [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: You can give the speech a second time! Then save yourself the preparation!]] [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Also, keywords and terms from this subject area, which are priorities, such as the areas of film, new media and architecture, do not appeal to the public. [[Lively calls and calls from MEPs Scheibner and Schaffenrath.]] The minimum budget shifts in these areas will not boost the Austrian film industry, nor will it be possible to build a future-setting with 100 million schillings on financial resources in the area of architecture. There are only lip confessions for this. I must say here that this really has nothing to do with political will. To date, no cultural journalist and no cultural journalist have had the opportunity to conduct a major cultural policy interview with the Minister of Culture. He conceals and thus destroys the trust between artists and politics, which has been laboringly built up over the past two decades. Ladies and gentlemen! In the Netherlands, for example, a four-year plan with specific cultural programmes is presented by the cultural decision-maker, Parliament. This means that in the Netherlands, everyone or anyone can know in detail what cultural policy priorities the responsible person will set or what basic cultural policy guidelines he pursues. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that this model could also be a forward-looking model for us in Austria, and that this could finally lead to a cultural debate, because of the pure discussions of announcement, as they are made in Austria, are certainly too few. [[Accompaniment at the Liberal Forum]] Mr. State Secretary, who is still not present, spoke, for example, on 18 June. ==References====External links==* Official website I was particularly pleased about this announcement, since it is also an old demand of the Liberal Forum. [[Abg. Scheibner: The demand cannot be that old! The Liberal Forum doesn't last that long!]] However, since then I have not heard anything from him on this issue. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer.]] Don't think I'm... [[Abg. Scheibner: You were a cultural speaker!]] Of course! Are you actually interested in culture at the time? - I don't think so. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] - Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, I do not have the time to address such unqualified objections. However, I often cannot defend myself from the impression that they are not in agreement with the Minister for Finance and therefore suspect that this announcement just mentioned will not leave much. The last announcement by the Secretary of State, namely to raise the artificial budget to 1.5 billion schilling in the medium term, I believe that this massive increase is not going to become a reality. Ladies and gentlemen! In order to make a meaningful cultural policy in Austria in the future, it seems essential to us liberals to finally sum up the art and cultural agendas in a department. As a first step in this right direction, the Liberal Forum therefore calls for the project "Chair Art" to finally end! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Finally, a few words on the existing distribution of the Bundestheater: As a culturally-political person - and I assume that this name also applies to our Federal Chancellor - it is not all serious to allow an instrument such as the planned public advisory board to be laid down by law. It is still time, ladies and gentlemen, to prevent this instrument of circumcision of the freedom of art. I urge the Minister of Art to stick to Article 17a of our Federal Constitution as the head of the department. In that it says - I quote -: "The artistic creation, the mediation of art and its teaching are free." Ladies and gentlemen! We do not need an instrument in this country to counter art. And I'm very worried, for example, if I remember the statements of Salzburg's head of state Schausberger on the occasion of the Salzburg Festival, which was that it should be offered more "light food". This - and I say so quite consciously - endangers freedom. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Who else, ladies and gentlemen, has the influence and the opportunity to counteract this extremely worrying development, as the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany? I also urge him here to delete § 16 in the draft law on the distribution of the Bundestheater, which has the contents of the public advisory board. In this case, I do not think that compromises, as they have been mentioned here, would only cause confusion, and the following painful discussions certainly do not serve a successful cultural policy that we need. Our cultural creators have not deserved this. Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! It is also my concern to take a short look at consumer protection. The budget only provides for 3 million schilling, which clearly shows that the concerns of the consumers of the Federal Government are not very valuable, at least as far as the financial effort is concerned. However, despite this modest budget, improvements in the field of consumer protection would be possible. An area that is especially dear to my heart is the better protection in the so-called doorstep shops. An improvement in the sense of consumers would be to extend the legal right of withdrawal in this type of sales. ==References====External links== In March of this year, a survey on the topic of the consumer protection law took place here in the House, in which Mr Michalek also described an extension of the right of withdrawal in door-to-door operations as the current project of his place of business. According to the complaints of the interested parties, in these transactions it is obvious that the more often attempts to avoid the withdrawal of contracts through incorrect dates or insufficient information of the consumer about his rights. Such transactions are often argued by the sellers who are specifically tailored to seniors. It is also known - we all know - that health is an important part of their well-being, especially for older people. This is precisely why health products are offered in great variety, and many older people are just overcrowded when buying such products. In the field of magazine trade, where complaints of this kind were also common, § 26a of the Consumer Protection Act was introduced in order to give consumers a better assurance of withdrawals. I therefore believe that, in view of the facts mentioned, it is useful to extend the provisions of this paragraph to all areas of door-to-door sales. Ladies and gentlemen! There are many other areas of concern specifically for seniors, such as advertising or seniors' fairs, where fraud is also common. I hope that we will work together to achieve legal improvements. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, on the occasion of the discussion on this mini-budget for consumer protection, the question should be raised as to whether this matter does not also suffer from being rubbed up by the competence of three ministries. We decide today and in the next few days the last budget for this legislative period, and I think it would be useful to consider whether consumer protection would not be more efficient and meaningful in a place in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e8163	Next speaker is Mrs Edeltraud Gatterer. - Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e8178	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies' lawyers! Mr. Volksanwalt! As a Carinthian Member of Parliament, I would like to use this opportunity once again to ask Carinthia for the full support of the Federal Government for the 2006 Winter Olympics. The holding of these winter games would not only put Carinthia, but also the whole of Austria at the heart of the sporty interest, but it would also underline the great European idea of "senza confini", without borders, once again. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] For it would be unique in Europe to combine the three major European cultural groups, the Germanic, the Romanic and the Slavic cultural circles, with the holding of these Olympic Games and to overcome the borders. It would also be the twentieth winter games, and Olympic Games are always in the sign of peace. Especially in this area, the signal for peace could be an important signal. Of course, these winter games are also a great opportunity for the Federal Republic of Carinthia. Not only in the sports sector would there be an essential impulse, but of course also a strong impetus for the economy and not least an urgently needed for tourism. The Carinthian representatives of the government parties will present today a motion for a resolution which the Federal Government strongly accepts once again to provide full and active support here. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] But I would also like to return to women's policy again. For the EIA, women's policy is a very, very essential area, and Mr Bauer has already identified two areas of problem, as has Mr Feurstein. I would like to stress once again - and Mr Steibl will add it - that safety is a priority for women, including social security. That is to say - I would just like to take it a short while because Mr Bauer has already done so - we are particularly concerned with the compensation for women who are in divorce without any guarantee. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would also like to say once again that, for us, the objective of the ÖVP is that in future child rearing times should also be taken into account for pension reasons, and, of course, the pillar of our own pension is also a major concern for us. I think we have already found a very good initial solution with voluntary self-insurance with low incomes. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is certainly worth stressing once again how important education and training are. Unfortunately, at our subcommittee meetings, we had to recognize that the girl's life planning is still geared towards more than a few professions. In general, women's life planning is much more difficult because it must have in mind not only the professional but also the family sector. That is, basically, girls and women need to be prepared for a double life planning. The third point we are still calling for is, of course, equal opportunities. In this context, I very soon wish you, Mrs Minister, a proposal for the re-evaluation of the work. Women's promotion plans are still required by you. We are happy to give you our support, because the latest data show that women are on the loser road in the tougher struggle on the labour market, despite 25 years of the SPÖ-designed women's policy. After all, this is a generation of women's policies in which SPÖ put the government members responsible for it. I believe that in this area we really need to move forward. The same applies to the compatibility of family and profession. I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to point out that it is another problem for many working women, especially in the coming summer holidays, to do so with their children. I would like to add this to the debate on flexible child care models. I believe that the tax deductibility of the costs of childcare, as required by the ÖVP, would be an additional important step for women in terms of summer and holiday care. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to stress very briefly that the possibility of part-time work for women, especially in the "family phase", is a very important area for the EIA, but also for women's self-employed work. Mr Steibl did it yesterday. We should not only prepare women for self-employed jobs, but also increasingly provide them with training for self-employed jobs, especially in the service sector. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: That's where we need a different business order, Edeltraud!]] I am very glad that the Women chapter in the National Employment Plan has been recognised as a priority. I would like to see, for example, the issue of gender-neutral night-work law, which has been called upon very often by the ÖVP, implemented. Mr Feurstein mentioned yesterday, for example, the problem of the company Searchard, in which women are not allowed to do night work and are thus excluded from working life. I would also like to see the point "promoting the re-entry programme" actually fulfilled. An essential point for the ÖVP is still the choice of women, namely the possibility to choose either for family and profession or only for one or the other. I regret that, in all programmes, the focus is always on the pure employment, the work and the opportunities of women in working life. I think that the choice of women must be a more convenient law for us, and that is what it is for the ÖVP. We still acknowledge this to the woman, as well as self-determined life-planning, but in many areas proposals are made which the woman wants to transfer directly from the dependence of the partner to the state. This is also something that we will certainly not say yes to. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, a further and important objective for the EIA is the partnership, which is partnership not only in the narrow family context, but also, of course, partnership across the party borders and also partnership of the valuable colleagues we call for here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e8247	Mrs Haidlmayr has now come to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e8262	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to comment on a few points, in order to make clear on the one hand and on the other, to draw attention to what has been forgotten in the area of women in particular. First of all, I would like to refer to Mr Kröll's speech from the ÖVP. He's not here right now. Mr Kröll has been making a great reference here, which has not already been done in the field of disability sports and how advanced Austria has already been in this area. Mr Kröll has probably overlooked - perhaps he has not looked at his post today - that all 183 Members have received a letter from the mayor and deputies to the National Council Mr Hermann Kröll, with the request that they should take over a sponsorship for the sport of disabled persons. [[The speaker shall keep a document up to date.]] [[Abg. Grabner: He signed that!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: He does a lot for disabled sports!]] And now I ask you, ladies and gentlemen: If we already achieve as great a success in the field of disability sports and have as good a legal security as you said before, why is it still necessary to send such letters to the economy and to the Members of Parliament? I can already tell you why: because funding in disabled sport is almost unexplained. It is really a sad game that athletes today have to beg for a sponsorship by Members because the sports budget does not even ensure that the Austrian athletes are regularly financed from sports promotion at international events. This applies, for example, to the event on 22. June 1 100 athletes from all over the world will come to. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Kröll! You have to decide: Either the disabled sport is already as well equipped with financial resources as you have said, then it no longer needs this letter from you, or you have been mistaken in your speech, and the disabled sport is financially so miserably equipped that unfortunately you still need to send out such bedding letters. You have to make the decision for yourself - either one or the other. In any case, their statements today do not agree with the sending of these betel letters. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There is a lot to be said about the sports area. You know very well that a lot of money remains in the sports clubs, it is spent on structural costs. I think that it should finally be considered in the field of disabled sports, as in non-inhibited sports, whether the promotions should go directly to the athletes instead of to the individual clubs - there is an A- and a B-cader - so that the athletes have a base financing for the exercise of their sport. They know that it has not been possible to get sponsors from the economy that finance disability sports as well as non-inhibited sports. That didn't work out. Good disabled athletes, who have to be very busy and very busy on the road, can no longer afford their sport for financial reasons. They cannot participate in championships or in large foreign events, because this is simply not possible with the private money. In this respect, there would be a lot to consider and address. The sports venues also leave to be desired. There are hardly any sports venues that are really adapted to make them accessible to all, including the disabled. I therefore believe that there is still a lot to be done in the field of disability sports, and there is no reason at all for euphoria or for doing so, as if in Austria, the sport of the disabled was already the same as the sport of non-inhibited persons. This is not the case, although Article 7 para. 2 of the Federal Constitution last July stated that the disabled and the non-inhibited must be equalised. The implementation of the principle of equality is still to be resolved in this area. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In my speech, however, I would not only like to limit myself to sports, but also to say a few things about women's and disabled women's affairs. Mrs Prammer! I can't save you. In your package of measures to reintegrate women, it is not once the term "advanced women". If you look at the measures contained in them, you will find that you have simply forgotten and simply ignored the situation of disabled women in the labour market, or what measures need to be taken to reintegrate them. I think you owe us an answer. Although the NAP has the term "immigration of the disabled", you know that the situation of disabled women on the labour market cannot be compared with the situation of disabled men on the labour market, as well as healthy, unimpeded women do not find the same conditions as non-impeded men on the labour market. There is therefore also a need for different rules. Disabled women have their own status in the field of work and cannot be compared to disabled men on a flat-rate basis. In the women's report, disabled women are hardly present, and disabled women are no longer separately included in the NAP. They are only mentioned more where they are generally concerned with the disabled. The next area is consumer protection. Mrs. Minister! I have been in charge of consumer protection until the previous year, and I also talked about it in the course of this debate last year. I have drawn your attention to the fact that there are still serious abuses, particularly in consumer protection, when it comes to making media, price lists, event notes and cetera readable for blind people. But nothing has yet happened in this regard. There is no way for blind people at all to be able to get closer to the market within the context of their consumer presence, not because nothing is so excellent as to be able to see blind people and there is no single publication in a writing that can read the blind. There is a great need for action. They know exactly how difficult it is for blind people to focus on the market. They know exactly how much trust blind people need to be given information on important and essential questions, without being able to control for themselves whether this information is actually true and adapted to the circumstances. It's always better if you can acquire your own knowledge by reading a price list in the business, for example, or by reading laws or records of data yourself, instead of having to read them out. Nothing has happened in recent years. Specially blind people are at a much greater risk, because of wrong contracts - you can't read these contracts yourself! - to fall into traps when they are not visually impaired people. There is still a lot of things to do, and there are still many demands to be met, because I would like to draw your attention once again: There are already paragraphs on equality, in Article 7 of the Federal Constitution. And the Federal Government, which has agreed to this addition to the federal constitution - I say: Thank God - she cannot escape her responsibility now by perhaps trying again not to comply with her own law. Mrs. Minister! I would ask you to really consider these points in the field of consumer protection. Perhaps it is possible to provide for funds that will make it possible for disabled people, especially blind people, to have access to the media, access to information as well as access to those who are not disabled, of course, to take advantage of them. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e8334	The next speaker is Mr Peter Marizzi. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e8353	Ladies and gentlemen! Since today the budget chapter will also be discussed, I would like to speak on behalf of the Committee on Budgets and make some clarifications. Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! I have listened to your accusations and your opinions against others and against me and I would like to make a few points in this regard. I used to work in the nationalized industry and have had to deal with Eastern Europe. That was before 1989. I worked in a farm that was largely dependent on Eastern European orders. [[Intercession with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lösnak: Listen to me once!]] We have tried to keep employees, which of course we have not always succeeded. These enterprises are now partially privatized. However, it must be said that today only about a quarter of the former workforce is employed there. Then I got into politics and, of course, used my contacts to bring orders and employment to crisis regions, which you may find to be objectionable. [[Abg. Madl: Basically yes!]] I don't find it objectionable. From the 1990 point of view, it might have been different. From the point of view of 1994, ladies and gentlemen, it was also different. And from the point of view of 1998 it is different again. Ladies and gentlemen! I stand by the fact that I have intervened politically for the pipe factory Kindberg, for Schoeller-Bleckmann Ternitz and other companies. Faith I don't know what you're talking about. Before I did this and got in touch with some companies, I naturally asked the EDOK, and I was told: There's nothing there. - Today, people asked about Nordex again, and it was said: There is nothing against the company Nordex in Austria. So throw something. You're telling me, aren't you? You accuse me of having Mafia contacts. You accuse me of being in contact with the Russian mafia. I can only tell you: That's not me! I didn't know. I inquired at the official offices at the time, I also inquired today, and there is nothing there. [[Abg. Madl: You as a specialist?]] Should I research in Switzerland, England or any islands? [[Abg. Dr. Lösnak: Where should he inquire?]] I say to you one, ladies and gentlemen, of the liberals, and to this I say: I intervened for jobs and for orders. That's what I'm talking about. I agree that I have been involved in crisis regions. I've seen that as my job. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Koppler: That's it!]] What you did yesterday, that you even linked me to a murder, that speaks for yourself. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e8452	The next speaker was Mr Krüger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e8468	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies' lawyers! Mr. Volksanwalt! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! - Mr Marizzi, this interpretation that your person was brought into the context of murder is probably inadmissible and absolutely not justified by the contributions to the debate. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I would ask you to distance yourself from this overinterpretation. No one wanted to bring you to murder or violence near a state aid operation. [[Abg. Marizzi: But that was in a context yesterday!]] I'm sure I can put that out of dispute. But we are talking about - and this must be legitimate - showing human relationships in politics and in the economy in terms of East contacts. It is certainly not wrong that after the murder of the Georgian godfather in Annagasse, relations with leading and former leading members of the Social Democracy were revealed. It cannot be a coincidence, Mr Lösnak, that the co-owners of this Russian mafia are the former Social Democratic ministers. It is now a fact that ex-minister Blecha and the Ex-Citizen of Vienna, Leopold Gratz, had a joint venture with this Russian, Georgian godfather of the protective money mafia. The fact that there are human relationships between former ministers of social democracy and representatives of the Russian Mafia - the latter still enjoy the highest honor at party events of the Social Democrats - and that there have been close contacts there is probably no dispute. [[Abg. Dr. Löschnak: Give it! You must speak in the past, you'll probably bring it together!]] Ladies and gentlemen! But it has never occurred to these former high-ranking men of social democracy in all their economic activity - I am thinking in particular of ex-minister Blecha with his Eastern contacts - that this gentleman is a Georgian super-mafioso, whose business partner, who has fallen victim to an order murder of the mafia colleagues, has become unlovable. [[Abg. Gaál: It's supposed to be!]] - You don't think so, that's fact. - Even Blecha, who maintains the Eastern European Institute, has best contacts and is an insider in East business, has not noticed this. Gentlemen of Social Democracy and my Lady of Social Democracy! Today, claiming that the murdered Georgian mafia didn't belong to the Russian mafia, that's just a wishful thought. Unfortunately, it is not God's. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Allow me to say one thing: I quite agree that the discussion has been conducted with some hardness - on one side - on the other. [[Abg. Marizzi: From me?]] But I also ask you not to be too tender. [[Abg. Dr. Löschnak: Go!]] For colleague Herb referred to the democratically elected partyobmann Jörg Haider as the "big-scaled party dictator". This is an absolute low point for me, and such attacks have never been done by our side in this sharpness! [[Abg. Nürnberger: Don't be such a mimose!]] In one you're right: On the other hand, there have also been corresponding interruptions. I am thinking, for example, of my colleague, Mr Schwimmer, who said yesterday: Ladies and gentlemen, if anyone here is not bad, let him look at Mr Stadler, then he will definitely be bad. - Yeah, please, what's that? This is ultimately the withdrawal of human dignity! [[Abg. Schaffenrath: Why? It's true!]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] To say that if you look at these colleagues in the House, then you have to get bad, is a policy of avian release and the removal of the last dignity of a human being. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: But it is true!]] That's fact, and he's supposed to distance himself from it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Schaffenrath: And what does Stadler do?]] [[Abg. Leikam: Human beings despise Stadler, the naked human contempt! That's incredible!]] When it comes to your concerns, you are sad, but if the colleague Swimmer makes such accusations when he says that he gets bad when he looks at Mr Stadler, then you suddenly show a glass chin. [[Abg. Leikam: That's incredible!]] It's not balanced! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Prolonged calls.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Imagine that a Member of the FPÖ would have accused another colleague of this House of his external appearance not only being able to cause unhappiness but also nausea. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: Are concentration camps still "straflager" for you?]] You'd say on this occasion that's a Jargon that's been there before. If you say today that in the sight of a certain person you are going to be bad on a regular basis, then this is nothing but a withdrawal of human dignity - you will probably give me right, ladies and gentlemen - I repeat: a withdrawal of human dignity and an advance to lift the dignity of this human being and to let it be declared bird-free. [[Complaints with the liberals]] And that's not what you're talking about! [[Abg. May. Barmüller: Have you signed your contract? Is there a ponale for you to describe the concentration camp as a "straflager"?]] [[Further calls.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I actually wanted to comment on the Bundestheaterreform. I can only do this more in the approach. The Federal Theatre Reform, which is to go over the stage before the summer, has already failed in the approach if you look at the draft of the Federal Law on the Reorganisation of the Bundestheater. For there can be no question of transparency, of transparency in the sense of a clear responsibility. [[Prolonged calls.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] There can be no mention of the principle of sparingness, nor can there be any mention of the autonomy of the houses. Because how is the Bundestheater reform structured? At the top of the organigram we have the Federal Chancellor. That's what we've got...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e8731	Ladies and gentlemen! I call Mr Krüger. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e8747	In the highest member is the Federal Chancellor, among which is the Federal Holding, which is nothing but an institution which Federal General Director Springer is to preside over, and only then will the individual stage companies come. That is to say, we have a strictly hierarchically structured organigram, through which the intention to convey more autonomy to the individual houses is directly counter-carriaged. For if one reads in the draft that the Federal Chancellor alone is responsible for the establishment of the artistic directors, then I wonder: Where's the autonomy? What is the use of a Supervisory Board if the Supervisory Board is unable to carry out its most important and the actual task of ordering the Executive Board, but only the Federal Chancellor is quite right to take these measures and to use the Managing Directors? The truth, ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy, is that you are not prepared to release the art from the grip of your party. That's the truth! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] To the public advisory board, which is so violently discussed: I personally am against this public advisory board, but not for the reasons that lead you to the meeting, but for the fact that this public advisory board is a purely Scheingremium, which has nothing to talk about at all. My party and I would have preferred to send to the Supervisory Board instead of the Public Advisory Board a representative of the supporting associations - Association of Friends of the State Opera, Association of Friends of the Burgtheater - so that he can make democratic decisions there together with the other Supervisory Board members. But the debated audience advisory board is a purely placebo advisory board that has nothing to talk about at all. Now on the four-eye principle, because the President of the Court of Auditors is also sitting here. The Court of Auditors has repeatedly expressed criticism of the responsibility of each stage. But nothing changes at all. What is now in the project of having an artistic and a commercial director does not change anything at all to the already existing organigram, to the present structure. Because there is a right of conduct, which means that the artistic director has the sole responsibility anyway. You can't sell that as a four-eye principle! In addition, the artistic director has a say in the appointment of the commercial director. So please do not pretend that there is now a four-eye principle, as if the legitimate criticism of the Court of Auditors would actually be put into law. In fact, it remains that only the artistic director makes the decisions, including the economic decisions, because he has a so-called right of conduct, as was also included in the draft by Mr State Secretary. This is not a four-eye principle, it is clearly a two-eye principle. It is also about the fact that the liability of the responsible institutions is not precise, because of the confusing structure alone: For the artistic director there is the Federal Chancellor's senior responsibility, for the guidelines we have the Mr. Stage General Director. One could also see the law under the aspect of a "Lex Springer" - nothing else happens to the Bundestheaterverband, which then becomes a theatre holding. And in this case, there should be only one managing director, because the powers to share with another managing director, who has any say in or without the right to conduct, would probably be too little for the Mr. future general bank director Springer. All in all, we believe that there will be no transparency in the future in the sense of a clear responsibility. I am convinced that, if this law were to enter into force and be evaluated, the Court of Auditors would maintain its criticism. I can tell you one thing, Mr Koppler from Upper Austria: In Upper Austria, it is a matter of course that the largest cultural society in the country - you know what society I am talking about - has a four-eye principle. There's a commercial director and an artistic director. This society is clearly and clearly structured according to the four-eye principle, and it works well, and no one is upset. But in truth, the Social Democratic Party of Austria has joined the wishes of a cultural lobby and has implemented these wishes - with active and proven support from the Austrian People's Party. I think my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen, this federal reform of theatre will essentially not change at all. It remains the absolute sole responsibility of the Federal Minister. The Social Democratic Party of Austria is not so far from leaving the stages out of the political grip, just as the colleagues of the ÖVP are not willing to leave the Federal Museums out of the responsibility of transferring them to the sole responsibility and finally cutting the line to the ministry. It was very illustrative when the expert, the Dutch museum expert, was used as an expert for the committee and one believed that he would now praise our reform and compare it with the Dutch model. But he said it was unthinkable for him that in Holland a minister appointed a theatre director or in this case a museum director.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e8808	The next item is Mrs Ridi Steibl's speech. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e8826	Mr President! Mrs. Federal Minister! Fathers of the People's Party! Mr. Volksanwalt! I hope that I will be able to return to the agenda, because in the speeches of my two previous speakers, in particular Mr Krüger, I felt that we were back to the urgent question. I am very grateful that not many listeners are present because this does not give a good light to our parliamentaryism. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Krüger.]] Now to a happy statement by the Federal Minister Prammer today morning, which I would like to repeat. It meant that Austria had already done the homework, especially in the field of employment, and it addressed the challenge of improving opportunities for women in the labour market in a positive way. That is why I am particularly pleased because, in the course of the debate on women's desire in the country, the Social Democrats have repeatedly claimed exactly the opposite and were by no means of this opinion. However, I believe that this was a very important and good statement from the Federal Minister. It is clear to me, of course, that if you want to make a career, the professional increase - I only take this one area - is still linked to a working day of 10 to 15 hours for women in most companies. This applies, of course, to men, but especially to women. This makes the better compatibility of work and family a very important area. This area is top priority in the wishes of young women, from young parents, and we still have a challenge in this regard, especially in women, but also in economic and business policy. It has also spoken about the fact that a female and subsequently also a family-oriented personnel policy is actually calculated, because it means a greater degree of economic efficiency. In this context, a parliamentary response from the Federal Minister is also remarkable, from which I would like to quote. It says: I see the possibility of part-time work as an essential prerequisite for reconciling work and family life. I think that this is a new confirmation, and we are pleased by the ÖVP that you, Mrs Federal Minister, are going along our way in a positive demonstration of models for the compatibility of work and family. Mrs. Federal Minister! They also write in the answer to this question that the presentation of enterprises with female workers-friendly working hours is examples of how and how the interaction of business interests and the needs of workers with regard to the creation of part-time jobs is possible and can be used for the mutual benefit. - We have been going in this direction with family minister Bartenstein for a long time, such as in the form of the presentation of women- and family-friendly businesses about "tate instead of words" or the family audit. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would also like to mention the benefits of women in the informal sector in which there is no formal employment, such as the budget and voluntary activities. This corresponds to an annual production volume of 414 billion schillings in the case of an assessment of an average household wage. Similarly, women do 80 percent of the internal family care work and therefore usually give up on their own acquisition. These benefits correspond to 300 000 full-time jobs. The more important it is for these women - my fellow farmers and Gatterers have already mentioned this; the EIA women propose this - to compensate for the supply when there is a crisis. Of course, in the same way, the independent pension scheme for women is also necessary. Mr Feurstein has already mentioned today that one of the most important priorities of this education budget is that of education. If you are talking about self-employment in women, then you must immediately think of a versatile and good education as well as a qualified training of women, because that is basically the best insurance against unemployment and also a way to self-sufficiency. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] To sum up, I would like to say: I think that we should not be sickening everything and that we should be fit for the next millennium in women's politics. Women's policy means securing, expanding, professionalising and making right decisions that lead women into independence in the next few years, so that they are not led to the gangband. I think we of the ÖVP are going this way.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e8894	Next speaker is Mrs Maria Schaffenrath. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e8912	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Dear women People's lawyers! Dear Mr. Volksanwalt! Mrs Minister, it is my concern to refer once again in my speech to what you have replied to Mrs Kammerlander's comments on the problems of women's counseling and women's services. I have the impression that, if you said today, you would have had a detailed discussion with these bodies yesterday, and they would have said that they would not have any restrictions, they would not have any problems, they would not have to change their offer substantially, they would not have to tremble year after year for their survival, because they would not have a chance for longer-term planning, so that they never knew what the budget will look like next year, talk to various representatives of women's services. Mrs. Minister! I just want to mention a few names: Mira, Kassandra, Aqua. I could list you more. I think it must be clear to us just how important these women's counsellors are to women, because they work directly on the ground and specifically according to the needs of women and also achieve great success. Mrs. Minister! Mrs Kammerlander said that the AMS was male-dominated. Mr. Lukesch then said proudly swollen male breast, where he knows a woman. First of all, this is a sad sign, and second, not only is the AMS male dominated, but of course also the social partners. Of course, there will be individual women, that is no question at all. However, male domination has consequences in particular where the educational institutions which are allocated to the social partners then offer a very unilateral and very limited programme for women. But that's not enough. Especially in the co-financed women’s projects co-financed with EU funds, these social partner educational institutions are highly preferred. All private initiatives can be left alone - with the bureaucratic obstacles, with information deficits, with the problem of pre-financing, for which these women still have a personal liability, and with costs of pre-financing, which can no longer be required through the project. Mrs Prammer! In this connection, I would very much like you to use your political weight for setting up coordination bodies in order to make it possible for these private women's initiatives to be better co-financing with the help of the EU in principle. I would like to mention one point which we have not considered, on the condition that the promotions for these women's counsellors and women's services would remain the same: These organisations are highly burdened by the work contract rules alone. I see, of course, that women do not have the same weight as a Mr Digand, who, of course, was able to reach a derogation for his area, such as the educational institutions of the social partners, Wifi and BFI, who, in addition to other privileges they have, also have a derogation in the field of works contracts. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: Don't you want insurance for the women? Shouldn't the women have insurance? You don't want insurance for women?- Oh, my God!]] Mr Feurstein! I do not require any derogation for women's organisations, but at least in an adequate way, we must increase subsidies to these places, because where are they to take the money? That's a ridiculous thing when you're sitting from one bag to another. Mrs Bauer! You have said here today that you would be very pleased that we are finally focusing on women's education and training. I have to say something about this: If the Minister of Education fully promotes 99 points on the promotion of girls and women - I can only say 'propagated' - if she, as it were, just euphoricly announces what she had already implemented and foresees implementation by the year 2000, then I must already ask how she should achieve this with a budget approach of 1.6 million schilling. These 99 points are high quality. In any case, I would support many of these points, but we also need money to implement them. That is my concern when I look at this National Employment Plan, Mrs Minister. Where will we take the financial resources for its implementation? - Mrs Silhavy has expressed great gratitude to you today because you have succeeded in claiming more resources for women, so to speak. I mean, that can only be a very small thank you, because the increase in resources was only minimal. We're talking about 10 million schilling. [[Interference of the Federal Minister Mag. Prammer.]] -That's why we see how tiny the women's budget is in general. Mrs. Minister! I do not believe that a woman's minister's weight is measured solely by the budget, but a woman's minister has quite different instruments and possibilities to put her political weight in the balance. I ask you to do that too! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] As the President-in-Office of the Court of Auditors is here today, I would like to mention these 10 million schillings in budget growth. The Court of Auditors has decreed to ask the Minister of Education to return the 17 million schilling to too much paid hourly wages. Mr President. The Minister of Education has donated this money - indiscriminately given! It did not demand it back, despite a request from the Court of Auditors. How much could we do for women's advisory services by 17 million schilling?- Oh, my God! The President of the Court of Auditors has long criticised overtime fees for national school inspectors, for school inspectors. That's where we're talking about a few million. There has been a further increase in the budget in this area. So it can't just lack the money. We cannot always claim the shortage of money for the problems of women's policy. Means are there. The question is how efficiently and sparingly they are used. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Barmüller.]] - That you give money to the teachers! They didn't want to. This was done voluntarily by the Minister of the Interior. Mrs. Minister! They say that this employment plan is tangible. I mean, he'll be visible. I believe, of course, that we can discuss whether childcare is a very essential tool for women's policy or a task for society. Of course, you can also discuss whether family-friendly means women-friendly at the same time and whether everything that is good for the family is good for the women as well. You can discuss this. In principle, you can have different approaches. But it was the initiators of the women's people's desire who said: Nice words don't fill the women! - What do we have now? - Now we have beautiful words, beautifully written together, but the question arises whether this will be implemented as it stands. Mrs. Minister! There are still many open questions to answer, such as: Where are you taking the money from? Who? When? - I think we have a lot to discuss in this regard. I am now referring to the individual points in the first part of the column four, where it means that you want to increase the promotions for qualifications. We now have an unlikelyly curious situation: In Austria, in order to be able to claim re-training, a person must be an emergency aid beneficiary or an emergency aid beneficiary. He cannot be re-trained before. This also applies to aid which may benefit undertakings if they carry out re-training measures within the holding. If that makes sense, whether it is economic, I would like to put it down. In the case of precise consideration, it must be clear that many women, in the absence of skills, may be available in the short term during their unemployment, but in the long term only have opportunities if they are highly qualified if re-training starts as quickly as possible. If we are already praising our active labour market policy today - I am not doing it because I know that our resources for active labour market policy are embarrassingly small in European comparison, because we are spending least on it - we must at least note that the small resources we spend were exploited in addition by a completely patched apprenticeship action which had no reform character. We know from personal experience that between countries resources are already being reworked to stop holes. The AMS leaders in the federal states tell us that there are no longer any resources for the qualification of women, for the qualification of long-term unemployed. - That's a fact! In my opinion, these reintroduction courses have not already been particularly fruitful. I would like to refer once again to the example of Tyrol. If 350 new entrants are qualified in Tyrol in ten years - this is worth a jubilation to the AMS - then the requirements for the qualification of re-primary women should be considered in principle. I say one more thing - this is not exclusively your area -: Whether we have sufficient resources at our disposal, including from the European side, to develop and test new working time models to create new forms of work for women as a whole, I would like to add that. What I noticed is this: In this context alone, a number of points have been dealt with in the last version. I was surprised, therefore, because Mr Gatterer of the ÖVP has regretted so much that the women's promotion plans no longer appear. I do not accept - I know your position in this context - that in the SPÖ's representation you have made these women's promotion plans disappear. The more I am surprised when the ÖVP is said to regret this direction at once. What has happened in this first part is the family-friendly working world. I should like to stress that: "Families-friendly" is not "female-friendly"! [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: Don't be woman-friendly!]] A family-friendly working world is not a woman's policy instrument. I agree that women should have a real choice, but this option, Mrs Bauer, does not have women, as long as they are not insured under social law without employment, as long as they do not have a right to pension without employment, as long as they do not have a social security scheme. [[New call for tender Rosemarie Bauer]] You only exchange one dependency on another, the dependence then exists on the spouse. I have something to say to you: With this consistent demand for compatibility of family work and work, we cement the status quo that family work is primarily women's work. With the consistent demand for compatibility, for more part-time work, we want to create conditions that allow women to cope with care work and employment as conveniently as possible in the future. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: But you must tell the women!]] I am not expressing the opinion of the ÖVP groups, but I represent my own opinion, Mrs Bauer. This danger exists simply, and we also know that part-time work at 20 hours a week is actually a boomerang for women, that they therefore have to give up skills, have career breaks, and we know that it is primarily less qualified activities for women. This means that the better compatibility of family and care work and occupations is exclusively at the expense of women. We therefore need other models. We need a right to reduce working time, but for both partners, as is the case in Sweden, for example. Mrs. Minister! In any case, you would have the support of women for a specific proposal. [[In the case of the Liberal Forum as well as the Abg. Dr. Konrad.]] What I certainly miss - Mrs Kammerlander has already mentioned this - is a women's advisory law. There is still a fixed and finished draft from your predecessor in 1996. I think that you, Mrs Minister, could already show political weight, at least once clearly express your political will that, just as there is a family advisory law, there should also be a women's advisory law. To the childcare facilities also a few words. Nor do I see in that - I have already said this - the women's policy measure. Of course, we all know that the first 600 million schillings, which were supposed to be a billion, were a consolation pavement as a compensation for the discriminatory provisions of the savings package I and II. The plan now - I am glad, and it honors us Liberals - is that farm kindergartens should also be promoted. We have already tabled a request in this direction, but he has unfortunately been rejected, Mrs Minister, in the course of the discussion of women's desire. I'm curious about what model you're proposing to promote farm kindergartens. I still have an open question: There are now another 600 million schilling available. We know, however, that they will not be enough because they are missing - you write it yourself - at least 140 000 places of care. Have you thought about setting targets for the establishment of childcare facilities for the countries? If no: Has Do you intend to bring about the consequences of the financial compensation? Also in the last area, when facilitating return, you have got a few points in the last version. On these points there can be different positions, but I believe that the re-primary women would have been better served with the original version which I would rather have served you, Mrs Minister, and less the coalition negotiations. Mrs. Minister! Now on the topic " more flexible reporting periods for the karenz time". - I have to put a critical point back here: You are still talking about "duration" in this paper, if you think Karenz time, although there is a five-party proposal from this House, which rejects it. Also other reasons, such as that we do not have laws there, but a plan, cannot apply. I think this is very persistent and also very significant. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] We would support more flexible reporting periods. Men must also be given the opportunity to claim leave. I do not see enough opportunities for this in the current reporting periods. I am pleased that new entrants will be better informed, and I am also pleased that firms should be better informed about aid opportunities for re-entry women, because this is not working at all at present. Even under the Minister for Social Affairs, Hesoun, there was a clear surplus in budgeted resources, because businesses did not claim these funds because they lacked information. As a result, the budget was unfortunately cut short, so to speak, because of a lack of need. Today, too, we have a very bad situation regarding information. Actively, the labour market service is not informed at all in this case. As a woman, if you go as a re-primary, you have to ask for this information, so to speak, so to speak, in order to be able to teach it to a eligible entrepreneur in order to have better opportunities. Mrs. Minister! I have already told you, on the basis of concrete examples, what this looks like in the promotion of teaching places for girls in atypical areas. Mrs. Minister! In my heart - and I say this again - you can remain open to the National Employment Plan, the right to completeness or needs, and I consider the opportunities for implementation to be small in view of the current budgetary situation and information. I am now in Parliament for three and a half years and I must say, when I face up to the promises made in this area, that I do not understand how many minor points the government has dealt with through the savings package: The result looks very, very sad! Hopefully there will soon be an equal treatment attorneyship in Innsbruck - there was a tough ringing, nor is there it! There is a women's business center in Vienna, in Graz - thanks to your predecessor. There are intervention agencies - these are also going back to Mrs Konrad. But there is a sluggish wording in Article 7 of the Federal Constitution, which leaves aside the removal of disadvantages of chance. There is a possible guarantee for minor jobs, whereby voluntary work is purely fictitious and employers - at least if they have one and a half, theoretically speaking, small employees - have to pay employers' contributions which do not benefit women. In this context too, I am surprised at Mrs Gatterer's report, which is that she can be so pleased with labour costs which have no social impact. But then, Mrs. Minister, we're pretty ready. There is still some brochure or information paper, but then the examples go to me. This is not a particularly encouraging result - I come to the conclusion, Mr President. - for three and a half years - I can still look at this period - not even after a women's people's desire with 650 000 signatures. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] Thank you, Mrs. Minister! As a result of these experiences alone, I lack confidence in the implementation.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e9028	The next speaker is Mrs Konrad. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e9047	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Estimated representatives of the People's Procuratorate! Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would first like to pay attention to measures for women in the labour market, to measures planned by the Government and the Minister for Women and which they have also included in the National Action Plan on Employment. It is particularly important for us Social Democrats to develop effective and sustainable labour market policies, because we stand to do so - I can also say to Mrs Gatterer - that professional work is also the basis for women's security of life. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I therefore welcome the need to expand the training opportunities for unemployed and unemployed women. This is - and this has already been mentioned - the task of the AMS; it is not a task to be done if there is nothing more important to do. This will put the labour market service in place with a very clear definition and, of course, sufficient resources will have to be made available for it. I welcome the fact that the National Action Plan on Employment provides for the establishment and extension of further regional women's foundations. The existing work foundations - we know - are primarily for the benefit of male workers, and the only women's foundation in Austria, the Women's Foundation Steyr, shows clearly that there is a need because it has proved itself for years. Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is good and important that there should be targeted advice and promotion for women who want to make themselves independent and that there should be more in the future. In particular, this is done by the Minister of Women with the support of the Business Women's Centre network. This advice and promotion are particularly important for women who plan to enter successful self-employment and are intended to support this entry. In this area in particular, good, realistic and responsible advice and support are necessary if women are to secure their existence with self-employment, with the entrepreneurship of their ideas, knowledge and experience. In addition, I hope that the planned promotion or preference or funding of companies developing and implementing women's promotion plans will actually prove to be an equal treatment measure. We will have to look very closely at this, and we will certainly review it. A separate informal EU Council of Ministers, which, as you know, will take place in Innsbruck at the beginning of July, will deal with the issue of "work and equality", and I am convinced that this Council of Ministers will have such results in time. I would like to address two other priorities of the Minister for Women and to address them a little closer; they have already been addressed by my previous speakers. First of all, short to the Women's Services and Women's Advisory Offices: For many years, the 26 women's counsellors and women's services have proved themselves throughout Austria. These institutions, which are a priority of the Minister for Women, have been better taught in recent years than before - but I agree with Mr Schaffenrath that this is certainly not enough and that there are regional differences in this respect - but they still have the status of projects, which we also regret from the Socialist Group. That should change from our point of view. Women's advisory services should finally become so self-evident - I say it this way to address everyone - as police guards, even if they are something quite different. Their existence must, of course, be safeguarded, without any permanence of legitimacy. There is - Mr Schaffenrath has already mentioned this - a draft law, a consideration that has been drawn up some time ago, and I would also like this step to be taken soon. [[Abg. May. Kammerlander: What is another study for, what is another investigation for? It's just a delay in time!]] - I'm not talking about an investigation - you have to listen to me! - but there is a draft, and it is now about implementation. [[Abg. May. Kammerlander: But your minister!]] We all want to work together on this implementation. If we all carry this together, this implementation will certainly be possible in the foreseeable future. This would be a step forward to the women's advisory bodies from the project stage, which is no longer really any longer, and - that would be a possibility - to establish as a structural offer, which is then available to women, fixed and, of course, established. [[Abg. May. Kammerlander: Yes, and please!]] I would also like to mention another focus of the work of the Minister for Women, namely the commitment to violence against women and children. The intervention agencies against violence, which we have set up to implement the law against violence in the family and the associated rights of the way in which it is applied, should be similar, of course, to women's advisory bodies and women's services. I have always - and those who know me longer - advocated the legal anchoring of these intervention agencies, and the first experience of the intervention agencies for two years also shows how urgently it is necessary to involve them as mandatory hubs between police, justice and the victim protection institutions. Cooperation in the interests of all interested parties and stakeholders would certainly be easier and therefore more successful if the intervention agencies were to have a legally defined status. If we really mean it seriously with the determined fight against violence against women and children - and I assume it is - then we must ensure that the intervention agencies can also work effectively, and to that end they must be equipped with sufficient financial resources. It is essential that financial resources be made available for the fight against violence in the family, and it is clear - I really must stress - that these can not only come from the budget of the Minister for Women. This also applies to all the activities of the Minister for Women. Even if they are planned, prepared and developed in this small resort, they are all going on and must also be taken into account in all budgets. Women's policy will only be really successful and can be made if it is wanted together, and the will to do so will also be reflected in the money that is invested for it.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e9117	Next speaker is Mrs Edith Haller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e9135	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mrs Bundesminister replied to my colleague, Mrs Aumayr, on the budget committee, that she was satisfied with her budget. 76,5 million schillings make up their total budget. There are increasing budget approaches, there is a slightly rising staffing position. She's happy. Today, this has already sounded a little different. It has been heard that the labour market situation is not so optimal that the non-wide dissemination of women's advisory services to the Minister has also been challenged. Mrs. Minister! In view of the women's desire, it has been shown that there has been a standstill in the Austrian women's policy. Of course, we free women cannot be satisfied with this, because it is not so much about your budget as it is with the budget that Austrian women's policy as a whole is under test. The fact that many women are not satisfied with this has proved the women's desire. You, Mrs Federal Minister, and your party are responsible for the 20 years of Austrian women's policy, which has always been a left-wing one. If Mr Bauer said at the 1996 budget debate that the EIA women had repeatedly been thrown into the socialism trap, I can only hope that the EIA women have really learned from it and learned from it. We are not satisfied with you, and I hope that it is not the ÖVP women either. An example: Despite all of these equal treatment discussions, Mrs Bundesminister, it appears that there is still, and nobody speaks of them, a disparity between women, between the self-employed and the self-employed. This inequality treatment exists in the protection of mothers, in the case of Karenz, in the case of illness, and there is no single approach from your side, there is no statement from your side that this inequality treatment should finally be corrected once. This is your ideology, I believe, which always expresses itself in the fact that you only feel responsible for the self-employed women. It is significant that, given the current labour market situation for women, there should also be a wave of founders for women. Women are to be driven more into self-employment - I say so now - and no one tells them beforehand that if they become self-employed, they will be socially even worse protected than before. Mrs. Federal Minister! You should really be a woman's minister for all Austrian women! All Austrian women should actually feel represented by you. I do not see at all an approach to assessing your educational work. On the contrary: Your hyperactive, as I call it, defence in the matter of child care check speaks volumes, Mrs. Federal Minister! As a liberal, I am very glad that we have at least made it so far as there is a feasibility study on this, because the system in this House is primarily so that all the proposals for freedom are swept away from the table, including those on women's policy. Mrs. Federal Minister! They want to split the housework. I don't mind. I too believe that men should also take on this commitment. However, although you know that much of the household work, education and care work will remain dependent on women in the future, that they will continue to bear the double burden, you have not yet taken care of the creation of qualified part-time jobs. This is evidence of the answer to a request we have made from the liberals, from 11th century onwards. May. We liberals have been calling for the creation of qualified part-time jobs for years. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But there is now a homepage of the Minister for Women, and in this homepage you are risking a rather smooth lip, I would like to say, and you are announcing the creation of qualified part-time jobs on the role model of the public service. Yes, the public service should have an exemplary effect, but I should like to remind you that the part-time system in the public service has been achieved on the basis of repeated requests from our Group of the Party of European Socialists. At the time, there was a Secretary of State Schlögl who did not defuse these liberal proposals, which took them up, easily reworded them and then implemented them. And of course we have also agreed! For example, if I am thinking about the gender-neutral arrangement of night work, as requested by Mr Gatterer today, I must say: Yes, it will already be so that the EIA also wants to have it, but demand in the form of applications it has been doing the liberals for many years! I do not give up hope that this regulation will come. One thing really hurts me very much, Mrs. Federal Minister: They deny Austrian women freedom of choice, freedom of choice between professional work, nursing work and educational work. With your line in women's policy, you force women to live a women's life, as you and your party feel right, as many Austrian women have long felt no longer for right. I would really ask you to think about it again. But I don't want to be so negative. I am a positive thinking person who also likes to implement things positively. You have given an interview at the beginning of your work as Minister, in which you have clearly documented that you do not want to reduce women's policies to family policy. But in recent times it has always happened that you have taken up family issues, you as a woman's minister! So you have very well noticed that family demands are very often in line with women’s demands. And if you, as Minister of Women, celebrated a family package yesterday - a reconstitutional family package - then I want to see it positively. [[Interference of the Federal Minister Mag. Prammer]] I would like to see this positive, because perhaps in the future you will look at women's policy a little more pragmatic than it has happened so far.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e9215	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Frieser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e9234	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! The budget chapter of top organs also gives us the opportunity to carry out something like a self-reflection, that is, to talk about ourselves. [[Abg. May. Posch:... intelligent test!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] - He's coming, Mr. Posch, believe me! Before I leave this house, I will present to you all this scientific test. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: No promises!]] But today, I want to take care of him. I would like to consider three aspects of our work: What is the quality of our work? Under what conditions do we work? What's our look like? [[Abg. Koppler: After today's bad!]] Not only after today, Mr Koppler, I think the whole week has been done. [[Abg. Koppler: If I look at the poor lawyers and the president!]] First: As far as the quality of our work is concerned, the legislation says, we must make serious accusations in this regard, not only of the legal professions, of the administration, but above all of the Supreme Courts. I should like to remind you that there is still a citizens' initiative in the house to be allocated to the Constitutional Committee - I hope that this is still happening this summer - where we will then have the opportunity to discuss this subject in a serious way. The second point: Under what conditions do we work? There I can see the honourable Member's comments. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. I also think that we should not save there - even if the word "save" is very in fashion at the moment - that we should be less reticent on this, because, especially in the electronic field, development is progressing so rapidly that we can make more expensive advances. We should also remember, however, that our working conditions in relation to air conditioning and light here in this room are extremely bad. If other workers found such working conditions, not only would the Works Council be opposed, but of course the Labour Inspectorate would also intervene and ban work. We do not want to regret it, but perhaps we should consider whether these conditions cannot be changed. Thirdly, As far as our appearance is concerned, I believe that the majority of this House believes that we have in recent days offered a picture that was under every criticism. If the journalists are already admiring at each other that the level is as low as never before, I think all the alarm bells should really ring. If, moreover, Mr President Fischer, with great patience and supplication, the Members are asking and asking to consider the choice of words - I think, Mr President, you had to give as many calls of order as you did in no time before - then we should rethink the Rules of Procedure. If Heinrich Neisser today in the "Morgenjournal"... [[Abg. Mother: That wasn't an interview for a president!]] But he's right in content, Klara! [[Abg. Mother: He shouldn't throw everyone into a pot!]] We all have to blame ourselves, there are only a few exceptions, namely those who have not spoken these days. But in reality, the diction was embarrassing, which was plowed here. [[Abg. Mother: Today too!]] We should consider whether the call for a regulation is a sufficient means of disciplining and a sufficient level of discipline. [[Abg. Nürnberger: Every call for order costs 1 000 S!]] Yes, Mr Nürnberger, there are in all the others... [[Abg. Nürnberger: I mean it!]] Yeah, I just want to confirm you there. There are, of course, other discipline measures in the Rules of Procedure of all other Western democracies and parliaments, not just the call for regulations. This goes on until the word is withdrawn, the ban on speech, the withdrawal of salary and the withdrawal of the mandate. [[Abg. May. Chamberlander: Down to the intelligence test!]] I hope that there will be a majority in this House who will discuss a reform of the Rules of Procedure not only in the next legislative period, but already in the next few weeks. At the end of this spring, it will not be enough to say: "Surely it was again this time!" - and continue in the autumn. It is therefore my request and my urgent appeal to all Members who are concerned about the appearance of a reform of the Rules of Procedure. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e9392	The next speaker is Mrs Madl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e9407	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! As usual, the Federal Minister has distanced himself from the government bank before I spoke. Ladies and Mr. Volksanwalt! Mr President of the Court of Auditors. It is significant for this House that in no debate today's contribution to the services of the Court of Auditors and Public Prosecutors under the Federal Chancellery has been made. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: This is an expression of appreciation!]] This is precisely the importance that the coalition parties attach to these two institutions. I hope that it is not the expression of the following opinion of the coalition parties: We are glad that we have these institutions, but they are not even worth a debate. Only my colleague Dr. Krüger has taken the opportunity to address some of the concerns to the President of the Court of Auditors, which the President of the Court of Auditors has also noted. [[Abg. Kiss: This is a selective perception, especially when you think about the greens!]] It is embarrassing, however, if, in seven hours, not even one of the issues that concerns the representatives present here is worth a debate contribution. [[Abg. Kiss: Don't talk such nonsense!]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] That's not a nonsense, it's a fact! You were probably far too long away from the plenary session as to allow you to judge what was at all discussed today, Mr President. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Kiss: Of course!]] I come now to the topic of women. The Federal Minister is still not here, but that may be understandable. There are also human needs. - Last year in January, in the Government Declaration, the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany said a great deal that the social and economic equality of the women of this Federal Government would be an important concern and that the Federal Minister for Women's Affairs would also take over this in the future and represent it very successfully. A year ago, he said: Of course, the particular situation of women in working life will be more taken into account. But then I had to say with horror that it is really a "special" consideration of women in working life when those women who work part-time and have an income from which they cannot even pay a childcare institution - so that they are pre-financed by the labour market service for three years - have to learn in January that this money will be deleted from the AMS. The logical consequence for those women who live in rural areas where there is no equivalent childcare facility that they can afford and who depend on this additional allowance is: You must again, as you call it from the Social Democrats and also you from the ÖVP, "back to the Herd". That's exactly the policy you're running! They accuse us of them, but they operate themselves. They are talking about equal opportunities, about women who want to get back into work - and in fact they are reducing the resources so that women who can only work part-time are not able to accommodate their children in day mothers or kindergartens because they simply cannot afford to do so financially. With regard to the highly cheered National Employment Plan, I have a question answered by the Federal Minister for Labour, Health and Social Affairs, in which she says, specifically in Guideline 18 of the National Employment Plan, measures will be included to facilitate the return of women to working life after an employment interruption due to care. Ladies and gentlemen! Those women who now have to go back and leave their jobs because they can no longer afford childcare facilities financially - are those women who are referred to in the National Employment Plan? - I'd like to ask you that. That's impossible! There are really only tags used, but reality looks completely different. In March of this year, the Federal Minister has said what she wants to include for women in the National Employment Plan. It is the most important example of the right to part-time work with a return guarantee to a full-time job. I am really glad that this has not been included in the National Employment Plan, because this would be massively damaging to the economy, because Austria is far too small-structured, and on the other hand, even more disadvantaged women, because they would no longer have a chance in working life if they had the right to return to a full-time working time after six years. I hope that in future we will be spared from such ideas of the Federal Minister for Women's Affairs, which are at a disadvantage to both women and the economy.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e9492	The next speaker is Mr Grabner.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e9571	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen, lawyers! Let me briefly address what Mr Haider has said here today. I would like to say from this point of view that I will also be present at many sporting events in the future, always as I have done so far: at my own expense. Ladies and gentlemen! I just hope that this is not true, what was said in Atlanta, when Mr Haider was flown in there. I hope he paid for everything himself. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Madl.]] Unfortunately, you have no idea of this matter at all. That's why it would be better if you wouldn't join us here. Otherwise, I would have to say something different to you. [[The speaker holds up a sheet of paper.]] This newspaper section is about your friends in Burgenland. I just hope that this Social Fund will not also pay for travel. - It's not from me, but I quote it from the "Kronen-Zeitung". [[Abg. Kiss: Another scandal of the liberals!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The importance of federal sports funding for sport can be measured from the following figures: Since the introduction of these funds in 1949, some 6.3 billion schilling have already benefited Austrian sport. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] In concrete terms, the 1999 sports budget is divided into the following financial items: First: More resources will be available in 1998 for the Federal Sport Funding Fund of a special kind. I would like to thank all those who have helped in the interests of sport, particularly the Secretary of State, for the proposal he has made, and Mr Bundesminister, out of service Lösnak, as president of the BSO, who has said with us that we have to do something about it. I'm saying thank you. Secondly, In 1997 the sport promotion amounted to 191 million schilling. In 1998, this sport promotion will increase by 2.6 percent. Thus, there are 202 million schilling available for sport. This is another increase, ladies and gentlemen - far too little, but it is an increase. After a further increase, it will be 203 million schilling next year. [[Abg. May. Posch: Too much sport is not good!]] Thirdly, In the same way, the Austrian Disabled Sports Association - as in recent years - is again supported with 4.8 million Schilling. Fourth: In the case of sports aid, the revenue in 1996 was 28 million schilling, with this financial base increased by a considerable 2 million schilling compared to 1995. These figures clearly show that sports aid has a very positive development. From this point of view, I would like to ask Mr Magnificence. Schwab and Neuper thank you very much. Because they really do a lot for sports aid, for the talents and for the top athletes. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The focus of this year's sports promotion in the Federal Republic of Germany is on the following projects: In the investment sector, the second rate of 45 million schilling will be applied in 1999 for the new construction or renovation of sports facilities in Innsbruck. In 1998 the new construction of the football stadium will begin. Another focus is the application for the European Football Championship in 2004, with the Austrian application for the 2006 Winter Olympics running at the same time. I believe that our chances are 50 to 50, although there are six candidates. We have really good chances, and I think we should be following together the interest in getting these Olympic Games to Austria. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: If the funding is right!]] If you have no idea, you shouldn't talk about it. I should like to say the following, since today I have asked myself very carefully: According to the International and National Olympic Committee, 4 to 5 billion schillings are already secured by television rights. A security of the Federal Government is required for 3 to 4 billion schilling, 48 million schilling is now for the application. If 1.5 million are decided by the Federal Government, that is much more than Graz. For Graz it was only an application for Austria, but now Italy and Slovenia pay 16 million schilling. Mr. Schweitzer, you have no idea! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: I just said that it must be true!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The project of support for young people, estimated at 8 million schillings, will expire in the current form in mid-1998. In this case, the funding for young people’s promotion will be pooled and used for the promotion of the projects under way in Austria with a view to the 2004 Summer Olympics. A total of 3 million Schillings are also planned for women's sports promotion. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: No more?]] Ladies and gentlemen! I say it quite openly: The "Haus" Sport in Austria is well-occupied, the BSO with Lösnak and Gruber, the Olympic Committee with Wallner and Jungwirth, but also the professional associations. I am thinking of Schröcksnadel in the Ski Association or Mauhart and Ludwig in the Football Association. From the point of view of sports medical care and the management of doping controls, the following should be mentioned: The activities of the IMSB enabled the development of the sports medical care network to significantly improve in 1997. This will continue in 1998 and 1999. With Director Holdaus there is also a good occupation in this area. The development of the performance centres is also very positive. The excellent international placements of our young athletes from the areas of Skigymnasium Stams, Ski Trade School Schladming, Nordic Training Centre Eisenerz and so on are an important indicator of these great successes. Ladies and gentlemen! From my point of view, however, the development of school sport is rather negative. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: The development not, the financing!]] Thank you very much for telling all sportsmen that they are dealing with this problem. The sports report will show that we have already recognized and made a number of things. We have achieved many successes: World Championships and European Championships. The disabled have also won 30 European and World Championships. I think you can also thank them for that. Mr State Secretary! I would like to thank you because it was you who said immediately that you should make something available to the disabled medal winners. Finally, I would like to say that many major events will be held in Austria over the next two years. These are also impulses for the economy, the Nordic World Championships in the Ramsau as well as the World Cup Nordic Juniors in Saalfelden, the European Volleyballer Championship in Vienna, the balloon World Cup in Bad Waltersdorf or the World Cup of Armbrushers in St. Veit an der Glan. All are important because the top athletes are good ambassadors for the country of Austria. The gold of sports in Austria, however, are the volunteer officials. Ladies and gentlemen! I've said it before: If one had to pay the working hours of the officials only at 100 s, a total of well over 40 billion schilling would be required. We can't afford that. [[In the direction of the Abg. Dr. Löschnak:]] Thank you very much, Minister of State. As President of the BSO, you are doing a lot in this area with your friends! I hope that we can do something here in Parliament if the law on tent festivals comes to the vote. I hope that the work will then be facilitated by the volunteer officials.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e9700	This is what Mr Ing has to say. Meschberger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e9716	Ladies and gentlemen, lawyers! Mr President. Minister! Mr State Secretary, first of all a few words on the promotion of the press, for which your place of business is also responsible. For years always the same: always the request to change the old, antique system at last, to adapt structurally to time, to improve and also to do all kinds of necessary things in the field of teaching. As always, nothing of this kind has happened. The figures and the structures of recent years have also been rewritten in this proposal. Press promotion remains nothing but a party-political governance instrument, directly from the Federal Chancellery. We have already debated this in the past year, where a newspaper has been put at home relatively brutally, if it lets the critic Menasse write a little longer about the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, consider removing the necessary or vital millions in the press promotion. It was about the newspaper "Standard". In this example, we have seen how anticompetitive and how the political favor is bubbling the press promotion system with its departments "General Press Promotion" and "Special Press Promotion". We have also been monitoring the situation for some time now, especially the "Special Press Promotion", which is where the Ministries get themselves directly from the daily newspapers, weekly newspapers and monthly newspapers with advertisements of relatively good wind and good mood for their political predecessors. Today I have a question answered by Mr Mag. Wilhelm Molterer, from which it is clear what this particularly "special press promotion" means, based on the ministries, in figures alone in the Ministry of Agriculture. These are sums which, if they are charged to all other ministries, are very considerable. In 1997 alone, in the daily newspapers, the Ministry of Agriculture has booked a total of 5.5 million Schilling. In weekly newspapers it was even more, 9.1 million schilling. It was 3.2 million schilling in monthly newspapers. And a supplement in the weekly "profile" was 1.4 million schilling. All of this together results in the sum of about 20 million schilling. This amount has been passed on to media in Austria alone by the Federal Ministry of Agriculture. If you count this on other ministries, you know what sum comes together and that it is by far not done with the 300 million schilling of general and special press promotion in that country. If, according to the Minister, these direct awards are then considered to the various newspapers, one knows which system is in place with the press promotion. The media announcer climate, which has also promised us with very flowery words in this area, to rethink this system, which has said that press promotion has been overtaken, seems to have become accustomed to the pleasant opportunity to get into the editorial offices via the control instrument press promotion of good wind. He said in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection that he felt that this system, which I have just described, is the best possible at the moment. One could at most consider redoring a bit towards quality, towards the newspapers that have a foreign correspondent network that has a little more to serve than others. The rest was actually just a runaway, actually a very clear and clear rejection of any reform in this area. I would like to point out, very disappointed, how dangerous it is to continue to maintain this system, which has arisen from time to time. There is another debate about the current award to the newspaper "Standard". The "standard" has either barely reached or barely reached the framework conditions for the receipt of 26 million schilling from the "Special Press Promotion". To date, the framework conditions are as follows: The "standard" says he urgently needs this 26 million schilling to be vital to him, otherwise he cannot survive. But that's where I'm wondering: If the "standard" urgently needs 26 million schilling to survive, with what money will it be involved in regional radios or private radios or on private radio Vienna, on a well-known station? And then the question arises whether the money from the special press promotion is used to finance private radio participations, and whether there are cross-subsidisation from the field of printing media and press promotion towards private radios. That is a question to be clarified! We all know that money does not have a mesh, that it is difficult to find out which support the newspaper "Standard" uses for what. In the sum it is a budget that goes in there and is spent there. And if the budget is too small, it won't be enough. I have now mentioned the "standard" because it has spoken of the need for life, but this also concerns the "Salzburger Nachrichten", which have a local radio participation and receive 10 million schilling in press promotion. But also the newspaper "Die Presse" holds participations in regional radios and receives 29 million schilling in special press promotion. - I'm talking about special press promotion now, not general press promotion. That is why this is very worrying. In any case, these cross-subsidies should be considered. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Reichhold.]] This also concerns the "New Volksblatt" in Upper Austria. We have always called for the replacementless removal of the special press promotion. We want to renew this request again. Instead of this special press promotion, we would like to promote a foundational initiative in the field of new media and an upgrade in the field of journalist training. As always, Mr President, we have tabled an amendment which reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e9800	Deputies! Excuse me! I have already mentioned this today. In the case of amendments to the budget, you must present the approaches, otherwise the application will not be read. - I'm asking you to present point 1.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e9815	Estimated approach 1/1043, 1/1043, 1/1045, 1/10456, 1/1046 and 1/10466.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e9834	Please, excuse me. I don't want to be annoying, but you have to make the difference. That is the essential content of the request.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e9849	Then I have to go over my speaking time briefly. In the VA approach 1/10434, change from 482.481 million schilling by 234,244 million schilling to 248,237 million schilling. In the VA approach 1/10456, change from 100,833 million schilling by 50,417 million schilling to 50,416 million schilling. In the VA approach 1/10466, change from 165 million schilling by 82.5 million schilling to 82.5 million schilling. I would ask you to support this request. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e9891	Thank you, honourable Member. The application has now been read according to business rules, it has been handed over and it bears the necessary number of signatures; it is therefore included in the negotiation. Mr Kiss has now come to speak. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e9910	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Volksanwalt! [[Abg. Scheibner: We're still there!]] High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Five years ago - and I am going back a little bit - Mr Stoisits made a financial call in connection with the issue of ethnic groups. From the colorful theme bouquet I want to take out the flower "people groups" today, although Terezija Stoisits is obviously in a hurry and cannot listen to me. [[Abg. May. Stoisits is just leaving the meeting room.]] It said in 1993 that it was incredible that this federal government did not support the groups, only 30 million schilling would be for the Austrian peoples, it would have to be 100 million schilling. I didn't hear anything from this demand in the meantime. By the way, only on the verge mentioned: In 1999, the donation for the Austrian ethnic groups will amount to 52 million schillings in direct funding, i.e. a significant amount, much more than it made up in 1993. This shows that this Federal Government is doing something very well for the minorities in this country. And the ÖVP has a significant share of it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Because now the minority spokesman of the Austrian People's Party, Georg Wurmitzer, smiles at me: I do not want to take away from him what he has to say on the whole subject, but I just want to approach the specific topics and problems of Burgenland. I do this in two areas. I believe that there is a very balanced discussion on the subject of "people groups in the Burgenland", which has both positive and negative aspects. Positive - and I would like to express that - was possible through the joint effort of all the parties represented in the country - for example, the bilingual gymnasium in Oberwart. This is a quantum leap, especially for the intelligence of our country, and it shows young people - whether they come from the Burgenland, the neighbouring Styria or some of them from Hungary, Slovenia or Slovakia - the following: Dominating two languages is more than one language; mastering three languages is better than mastering two languages. That's the right way! We want to go because language has always been the key to fellow human beings for us - even for the Austrian People's Party. We believe that this is a good way forward. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Jäger.]] But what would language be if it were not taught at a time when the parents were to release the children into life? There is now an exemplary law in Burgenland, which has, for example, been thought about the employment requirements of kindergartens. Among other things, it has been said that it must be so that kindergartens who teach the most precious of what our country has, namely the children, from the third year of their life, must be bilingual, at least in mixed-lingual communities. You have to rule either Hungarian or Croatian next to the German. - A model for the whole of Austria has been successful in Burgenland. I'm happy about that. This has also been approved by the majority of all Burgen countries, including the German-speaking majority. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Another thing: The minority school law has brought in exactly what we originally wanted, namely that in the mixed-lingual communities normality in the school sector from the sixth year of life really takes place, that the children learn a second or a third language from kindergarten in a playful way, but in a very plausible way, as I mean, in a very constructive way, in a very constructive way, from the sixth year of life in the primary school, then in the primary school, or also in the gymnasium, as it is possible. We go a good way with this and once again show that we in the Burgenland know the value of the language itself and what all people can do with the language when they go into professional life, into the world of adults. However, I do not want to hide that there are negativeisms, negativeisms, of which I would like to highlight two things that hurt me personally - as I come from a community in which I was a mayor for twelve and a half years, a community that is almost symbolic of all communities that are mixed. In Oberpüllendorf, where I was mayor, about 60 percent of people speak German, about 30 percent in addition also Hungarian, almost 10 percent Croatian, and also about 2 percent still have novels. With us in Oberpüllendorf, we have already adopted a unanimous municipal council decision in 1983, which reads as follows: We want to have a town panel in Oberpüllendorf, on which not only "Oberpüllendorf" stands, but also "Felsöpulya", namely the Hungarian word for Oberpüllendorf. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Jäger.]] Thank you for the applause. - This decision was taken 15 years ago. We still have the status quo at legal level. I registered activities from the Federal Chancellor's Office in this context, which I would like to put in place within the framework of the forthcoming EU Presidency of Austria, and I registered that the Federal Chancellor's Office would like to have the following things: that there is a general arrangement towards the bilinguality of local boards. However, I must point out that there is a discrepancy between the SPÖ and the ÖVP in the Burgenland, as we are approaching from completely different positions on this issue. For the SPÖ, for example, the chief negotiator Prior, deputy country of the SPÖ Burgenland, says bilingual town boards in Burgenland only provided that there is a public survey on them before. We of the Austrian People's Party are of the following opinion: bilingual town boards - that's supposed to be law! It has the same right to apply to all, so set it up! From this different position, we register how sensitive this topic is, how difficult it is to enforce it. I know very well that we from the Austrian People's Party have a more pleasant, easier, more natural access to this subject than the Socialist Party, which obviously has and slows down on this issue. Another of the former mayors, especially those who work as mayors in mixed-lingual communities: Again and again we note that mixed language is not only a blessing but also a burden, especially a financial burden. Our position on "communist communities" of course also includes the financial aspect. We note that those communities, which are mixed, have a considerable added burden that multilingualism is at the expense of the congregation budget. When I think about the personal standing certificates, when I think about the total staff effort in the kindergarten, when I think about the entire everyday life of school, I have to say: The interlingual communities are disadvantaged. That is why I address the Austrian People's Party on behalf of the Austrian People's Party. You have the appeal: It would be necessary to ensure that those communities that are mixed - but not at the expense of those who are not mixed - would be relieved financially. It would be for the Federal Government to provide a teaching for mixed-lingual communities, which corresponds to the fact that multilingualism is a precious asset. The finances should not fail!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e9975	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Schweitzer. 8 minutes of voluntary speaking time. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e9991	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Grabner, at the beginning of my remarks, I would like to apologize: I am sorry that due to a misinformation today it has been claimed that you have not financed your participation in various sporting events abroad. As I know, you do, of course, and I will say that to everyone who disagrees. [[Demonstrative applause with the SPÖ and with representatives of the ÖVP.]] On the topic of sport: As usual, I would like to say that Mr Grabner has given a very emotional speech, which first and foremost sees the sport positive and sometimes forgets to practice criticism that would be appropriate, or tends to practice criticism only in passing and sometimes to see everything through the pink glasses. Mr Grabner meant here today that Austrian school sports do not take satisfactory development. - It's not like that! Austrian school sports are developing very well. I am particularly saying this to the officials who are here now. You will certainly remember that at the last meeting of the Subcommittee of the Constitutional Committee, which dealt with the sports report - which does not contain a single sentence on school sports - I told you that the students of the High-School Board have qualified for the World School Championships in Latvia and how difficult it is to send these students there, because the financial resources can only be very difficult because Austrian school sports are being promoted per student with a ridiculous 2.50 S! 2.50 S - this is a disgrace, ladies and gentlemen! If I am against the amount of money that is available for which money is thrown out, I must say that already! I don't want to explore the individual football clubs of our semi-profiles. Everyone knows that it is unnecessary to throw out summaries, and many other club sports, which are mainly run with ball, have a similar problem. In addition, funding is given here, which is not bound by any conditions at all, so that today we have problems in occupying key positions in various national teams with domestic top athletes, because all these key positions are occupied in the associations of Legionaries. This is a problem of Austrian club sports as a whole. [[Abg. Head: But that's because we don't have enough money, and not because we have too much money!]] Now go back to school sports. Gentlemen! They may already have learned that these girls from the superscientists have now become school world champions. Before the big OL nations Sweden, Finland, Switzerland, Russia, Latvia, China, these girls have become school world champions. In the next issue of his socialist local newspaper, Mr. Kaipel will present the little Uschi Varga again and will brag with her and say: Look here, with me in Riedlingsdorf lives a schoolworld champion! I'll tell you: You and the policy made here by the majority have not contributed to these successes. I say that clearly and clearly once. It was the teachers, and it was the parents who tried to do it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Head: I like that too!]] But obviously no one has understood seriously that it is this reservoir from which the Austrian top sport draws its people, which then become a sign. This reservoir is still not supported! Then you rely on the parents who are constantly on the way to training with the children, who go back and forth for God’s reward. It's all right! Only sometimes it's not possible at all. This is where we rely on the many-student teachers, who are very likely to invest their leisure time and do not want it because success is enough for them. But that you have to go on a beggar tour when you have world champion - on a beggar tour! - that the parents are, in part, really, up to the last - not all of them from the well-known house - financially required, so that this trip to the World Championships can be financed at all, so that they have shoes at all, so that they have a compatriot at all, that is a shame for Austrian sport! And that's what I wanted to tell you here and today.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e10050	Mrs Jäger is speaking. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e10069	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, lawyers! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to start by referring to the comments made by my previous speakers, who spoke on the budget chapter of women. Unfortunately, there is no longer any of them present, but I would nevertheless like to meet colleague Gatterer and also colleague Madl. Both have demanded freedom of choice for women, i.e. they should be able to decide whether they are for the family or stay at home, or whether they want to pursue a job. In my opinion - I have noted this several times - marriage is no longer a life-long care facility, and women at 40 years of age, if they want to return to work after divorce, have no freedom of choice, because at this age they do not take any more in the economy, at that age they are too old for a job. That is why I strongly support the emphasis of our women's minister, who is fighting for the financial security of women. And such a one is only guaranteed by professional activity. Now we all know that the Ministry of Women is ill-dominated. [[Abg. Aumayr: She doesn't want to, has the Minister said!]] From there, only impulses can be assumed, important initiatives can be put in place. Women's promotion is a cross-sectional matter which ultimately has to be found in many ministries. That is why I think it is very important that the Minister for Women's Employment, particularly in the National Employment Plan, should be included in the National Employment Plan, that her handwriting should also be found there and that she should address employment policy issues and women's interests in all areas, in the sense of mainstreaming. This is urgently necessary because, as has already been said today, we have an increasing female unemployment. As I said, we need not only jobs for women who are now unemployed, but we will need even more women's jobs in the future. I also find the target in this women's employment plan to be correct from a women's policy point of view. In fact, the priority is to reduce women's unemployment, which is also to force women's re-entry after karence. In principle, the female employment rate in Austria is too low. ==References== Women are very active in working life - as it is up to 90 percent - then the exit and karenz take place, so to speak, and only one third of women have the opportunity to re-enter. I think that this exit is a problem, and we must do everything we can - this is also another priority for our women's minister - to make it possible to reconcile family and work. In principle, I call for more men to go in Karenz - and this has also been mentioned by my previous speakers. However, this will only be possible if women's occupations are better rewarded. I appeal for men to take on their duties in the household, but this requires that qualified part-time jobs be provided not only for women but also for young fathers. I think that's very important. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In this context, I must say to a colleague from the EIA, Mr Steibl, who meant that qualified part-time work was so important, that we Social Democrats have raised this demand very strongly. We wanted to see a mandatory part-time work opportunity for fathers and mothers of young children. Unfortunately, we have not found any support for this in the course of the treatment of the women's people's desire. An important prerequisite for women's employment is the development of childcare facilities. A further 600 million schillings were provided for Hiefor. I think it is very important that this is used in particular for children under three years of age and that it also creates even more opportunities - as we are very, very bad in Austria - for the afternoon care of schoolchildren. I think that we really need to reflect on other EU countries. Another aspect of women's employment, however, is the fact that women choose a greater number of occupations in their choice of occupations. Still women choose very few occupations. That's why I think this appealing brochure from the women's ministry "girls can do more" is very positive. [[the speaker holds up a brochure]] This encourages girls to actually go into new professions to choose new occupations. I think we need to do more in this regard in parenting, and schools and teachers also need to do much more in education for our girls. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I also think that a new rail of the Ministry of Women is very important and important, because, in close cooperation with the AMS and other training facilities, new occupations are created free of charge in the framework of services provided so far, especially in the area of childcare and old-age care. It is about the work of the day-mothers, the day-fathers, and I think that there is still a rich field of employment in the area of unpaid work. However, it is also necessary to develop appropriate professional patterns so that not only women are forced into social professions. All of this, of course, is also a question of money, and I think that a tax reform, which, in particular, brings about a relief from the work factor, could have positive effects in the future. However, the Minister for Women is not limited to looking for employment in the social sector, which is basically assigned to women, but she is very critical in supporting projects in which future-oriented professions, such as telecommunications, media and access to new technologies are concerned. It supports training opportunities in particular for women, and I believe that this is a way that we should all support in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e10124	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Grollitsch. Voluntary time limit also 8 minutes. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e10143	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! I would like to talk about budget chapter sports. We have agreed here quite a while ago with one of the rare five-party resolutions that the Federal Government is being asked to support sport in the best possible way in all the departments. If this budget is the programme of our government cast in figures, then this desire for the resolution has not been taken into account. It was also sobering when, during the discussions on the 1996 sports report, a number of district officials - not the ministers responsible - had to learn from the discussions and how marginal the support of sports in the individual resorts was. I take out the National Defense Division to a certain extent; but in addition, the importance of sporting action is quite simply not penetrated into the heads of the individual department representatives. The resolution may be repeated. It contains eleven points, and we will leave nothing unattended to carry out the implementation of the resolutions after the freedom-free initiative to set up a sports committee here. At best, the support for sports in the resorts remains the same, but the approach of special sports promotion with 400 million schilling for the 1999 budget, without the valorization promised by Chancellor Vranitzky, without the promised increase that Mr Wittmann, at least in the Committee, has put forward to us. We have recently learned from the yearbook "Toto" the figures of the special sport promotion of 1997. We recognize that expenditure with 431 million schilling was above the cover of 400 million schilling of the budget, and the footnote notes: 31 million schilling by resolution of deposits. This comment leads me to the last audit report of the Court of Auditors on sport promotion. It reads: "The promotion of rehabilitation and conservation of sports facilities is without any legal basis." And on top of that: "The non-necessary allocation of funding allows associations to create significant reserves from federal funds, which is not within the meaning of the funding itself." That's where it came back. Of course, it is nice if the associations, especially the Austrian Football Federation, are looking for and finding ways to refund funding, but such funding money, without applying for it, simply made available for 45 years after the same distribution key, does not correspond to the usual form of funding from the federal side. No applications are required, there is a continuation of the same, regardless of what the Court of Auditors says. "Many funding decisions were not comprehensible," writes the Court of Auditors in its report. And on top of that: Officials concerned with promotion matters held important functions of the beneficiaries. This criticism is, as we have seen, still to be applied. The same persons who apply for or do not apply for such support as they have been promised, spend the money accordingly, and last but not least with the control of this ad personam funding. This is a state which cannot simply be blamed, and last but not least, the liberals have submitted a request to the Sports Committee some time ago, which provides for a complete change in the award mechanisms of the special sports promotion. The reins of politics in the sports sector are called umbrella associations, their officials, as mentioned, the award of funds to artists. The justification - and we heard from Mr Grabner earlier - that this is what we are doing is always done with the same "argument": 250 000 volunteer officials and trainers, who could not be paid in fact, are the reason for the fact that at least 200 million schillings are entitled to be granted freely. We see no connection, Mr State Secretary, Mr Grabner, wherever you are. It is true that Austrian sport needs these voluntary officials. But where is the logical bridge that the roof associations, which obviously feel as representatives of these voluntary officials, are thought of free-standing allocation of public resources? We want the professional associations - there the experts in the sport - to get the funding in their hands, we want the worship sport to be thought of as a result of this allocation with a corresponding fixed amount and not always necessary to go on a beggar tour. A word on Olympic 2006. Mr Grabner said that Mr Schweitzer was unsuspecting, that he did not know that 48 million schillings were already in the box for the cost of applying, that more than 16 million schillings were coming from Slovenia and also from Friuli and that the Carinthians themselves were already sitting on this money. - That's a fairy tale, of course. In addition to the 1.5 million schillings in the budget, there is no commitment; no preliminary work has been done. In order not to be misunderstood: We liberals are fully in favour of this Olympic application of Carinthia, but we must condemn the previous procedure, the unfortunate preparation, the poor decision-making, which only fell upon Carinthia with the lowest majority. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Schwab, who is today talking about the media, who is supposed to pull out the cars, has our full support, only: He cannot start at zero, but after the misinterpretations of his predecessor, he must start with Minus one, so to speak. It was yesterday, born from the emergency and to give Mr Schwab appropriate starting aid and motivation, that a request was made here by the liberals who should have been prevented by incredible means. Whoever was present here was able to experience what reasons were used here, especially by Mr Khol and Mr Kostelka, to prevent him. Basically, only what the Carinthians need as a basis for their work has been wanted. It calls for the International Olympic Committee to guarantee and disbursement by governments. Since, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot third parties, we cannot divide: Klagenfurt is the applicant, and Austria is invited to sign the guarantee declarations; otherwise, until September, where the application is to be filed, no award can be made. It must - and this was the content of our request - take a decision before the summer. I cannot understand that you have abstained from this only because the request came from the corner of freedom. [[Abg. Müller: It didn't even agree with the Reichhold!]] When Mr. Haider is one of the liberals... [[Abg. Müller: Reichhold! Reichhold!]] Mr Reichhold, I apologize. I misunderstanded you. I do not know whether Mr Reichhold was here or not, but I know one thing, one thing I have heard, namely that the sports spokesmen of the government parties were not here. I did it later... [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: The Reichhold is here! The Reichhold was at a meeting in Carinthia, which dealt with Olympia!]] [[Abg. Müller: It was Parliament!]] Mr Reichhold - I am going to pass this on if you did not understand it - was at a meeting in Carinthia with Olympia. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Be it as it may be: You can't talk out on this matter! You can, if necessary, make an equal application today or tomorrow, which has already been spoken of. If it comes from you, it is likely that you will agree - no matter where the real impulse comes from. It is necessary if we want the launch of Minus to be one way forward, so to speak, for a guarantee declaration to be made on the part of our country. [[Abg. Koppler: Reichhold is weakening the plenary session!]] To privatize the Bundessportheime. If you look at the budget, you realize that the approaches to federal sports homes are significantly reduced. It should be noted that this privatisation, which was spoken about by the outsider five years ago and which we were promised in two government declarations, is actually to be addressed in some form. I'm just wondering: Why not make decisions here in the house? What secret plans are there, Mr. State Secretary? Don't you think you might need some kind of inspiration from our side? If you can believe rumours that are wandering around here, then you have to have outlays, which actually have nothing to do with privatization, but instead provide for a dispensation, which will finally end up with taxpayers. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e10245	Mr President, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Voluntary time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e10261	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) It is indeed true that, as before, one could always, in every area which is in need of support and support, need more money, or rarely be enough for the existing money. Mr State Secretary! They have recently been quoted in the media with the statement that the cultural budget must grow. I hope that in the course of the debate we can also agree that the same applies to the sports budget. This too should and must grow in the near future. And here I am quite clear from Mr Grollitsch's opinion: Above all, if not exclusively, it should grow towards professional associations, because there is a lack of money to create sufficient professional support structures for the variety of both width athletes and top athletes. For the financing of this professionalism sometimes the money is not enough. Ladies and gentlemen! Sports promotion is active health policy. Sports promotion is active social policy. Sports promotion is active economic policy. 800 million schilling from the federal sport promotion are certainly a lot of money. Mr Grabner has already referred to many positive examples of the use of these funds, so I can save myself a repetition. Mr Grollitsch, which is the 400 million schilling of the special sport promotion for the associations: It is true that the budget is not yet an approach or an increase in the sense of valorization. There is a legislative proposal which already provides for this valorization for the current year, but in a new form - connection with a percentage of the sales of Lotteries AG - has not yet been decided. Of course, it could not be budgeted before this law is passed, but of course the train will go around train, and it will of course be still in time for the budget to be changed, even this budget, not just next year. But there are also a number of points which are not included in the sports budget at all: the school area, the university area, the federal army. You have already pointed out that, in particular, the German army - and you have done so out of your criticism - is spending a great deal of money on this, for both areas of sport: for the body training of all army members on the one hand and on the second track also for the promotion of top-level sports. There is a lot of money spent: very much for the benefit of Austrian top sports. This should really be underlined here. I believe that the HSNS is a support facility for Austrian top sports, which is no longer to be thought away. For the clear commitment to this, our Minister of Defence should also be very grateful. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to lose a word on school sports because it has been criticised so well. We have an absolutely good system of physical education in school education internationally in Austria. The reduction in the number of hours claimed over and over again is also not correct. In addition, we are at a very good level compared to other countries with our gymnastics in schools. However, if Mr Schweitzer now criticizes that the area of school sports, which is not in the context of "normal" teaching, but in addition - in the form of events of the school sports clubs and so on - is certainly suffering from the same problem that they are suffering the fate of many sports clubs, since of course there is too little money everywhere and they depend on the voluntary activity of officials, parents, in this case also teachers. That would not be to be financed at all in this width. Be it now beyond school education sports activities of school sports clubs, or be it the other non-profit associations in the sport: If we wanted to pay tribute to these activities with taxpayer's money, the whole sport would collapse if we wanted to try it. That wouldn't be possible! Thank God, however, there are many volunteers in the field of teachers, with parents, with the officials who are willing to work for our athletes even without payment for our children, for our young people. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] It is true, however, that this 800 million schilling in international Compared with a very respectable size - in relation to our Federal budget. Nevertheless, this is not enough to provide sufficient structures for the associations - I have already mentioned it - to finance projects in sufficient numbers. Nevertheless, there are a lot of activities in these areas: Women's promotion, coach promotion, major events, as well as an application for the Olympic Games in Carinthia. Mr Grollitsch and Mr Schweitzer! It's a little bit very transparent, so in the end... [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The sweater is not here! The sweater is with the millions in Switzerland!]] That could be, but maybe you can send him my statements post-storage. It is already a little transparent, at the end of an agenda, quite at the end of the vote, to put forward a request which, of course, aims in the right direction, which, if you consider it from the point of view of content, should be support for the competitions in Klagenfurt. In principle, however, he aims at nothing but to overrun the government parties, instead of agreeing with us before, to discuss with us, then, which would certainly have been possible, to make a common request of all five parties here, which would have served the most. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That was an intrigue game!]] Right! I personally, however, wanted to speak as a sports speaker - and this is true of my colleague, Mr Grabner, who is responsible for sports in his group - then I would not vote against it, and that is why, I say quite openly, we have removed ourselves before the vote. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: To the toilet!]] Not together! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Reichhold, that's where you belong!]] We abstained from the vote because we did not want to vote against it. But the intention of this request was so clear that it was not possible to give him the consent in this form. However, there will still be such a request to support this matter today, in a positive sense. [[Abg. Boy: That's transparent!]] You can then prove whether you are on the matter - or whether you were really concerned about trying to expose the government parties at the last moment. This attempt is certainly wrong with you, and no one in Carinthia will take away this transparent maneuver.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e10370	Mr Wittmann, President-in-Office of the Council. - Please, Mr. State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e10386	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of High house! Ladies and gentlemen! As three speakers have already mentioned the subject of sport, I can only comment briefly. To Mr Schweitzer, what he said about school sport: I believe that school sports are better removed in the chapter on education, because this is also budgeted there. I must be right in saying to the honourable Member that the non-school sector, which is organized in associations, would not be eligible for funding by the State. Even if we wanted to finance all the clubs that organized themselves outside school and participated in competitions: We couldn't do it! There is the willingness of the parents to do so, since the willingness of the volunteer officials to do so is an essential part of this activity, and one should also use this opportunity to thank the officials who put themselves in the service of this matter. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] However, it is not easy to return to the State for funding any task which is, as it were, part of a state task. There must also be a certain degree of self-evidentness. On the comments by Mr Grollitsch on valorization: You know that this request is here in Parliament and my knowledge is on 9 October. In June the Financial Committee discussed this matter. It proposes a link between the special means of sports promotion and the proceeds. I can assure you that - at least my last information - this amount, which will be linked to the lottoes as a percentage, will be much higher than any amount of valorization for 1998. In other words, we have probably increased the means of sports, and I can also give the answer to the question of whether the sports budget will grow: It thus grows de facto, quite considerable and noticeable. Some 20 million schillings will be added. This is a very significant amount if you refer to the amount of 400 million schilling as the starting position. As regards the criticism of the Court of Auditors, I can say that at the time it referred to regional investment promotion, that there is no longer any such investment, but that we are only promoting more institutions of national or international importance. I believe that this is the right way to go. This measure, which was then criticized, will no longer exist in the form. To the privatisation of the Bundessportheime mentioned by you, I would like to maintain once and for all: This is not a privatisation, it is a breakdown. The difference between these two instruments is that privatization should be sold on the free market, but the federal government remains the owner of these federal institutions. It's consciously made that way. We do not want to make hotels out of it because hotels certainly could not afford the excellent sports facilities connected to these Bundessportheime or want to because they would no longer be cost-effective. The Federal Government should continue to be able to benefit from these sports facilities, but the management will take place in a private form in order to achieve better cost efficiency and cost transparency. It is also intended to clarify those associations that have a separate tariff in these Federal Sports Homes, since the Federal Chancellery continues to be discounted on the special tariff. However, we can actually identify this as a promotion, and the form of private-law organisation will offer a market-oriented price for these institutions. We are negotiating with the BSO whether or not sport itself should take over this home. That would be a solution that would certainly be useful. Then it would be ensured that these homes will also remain in sport. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] But we don't want to make hotels out of it. There is a very clear separation between privatisation and dissemination. These facilities of the federal government are to be preserved by sport. The question of the roof associations is, as it were, a permanent burner. I would just like to point out that there are 250,000 volunteer officials organized there. This means that sport would not be viable without this contribution, which is voluntarily introduced into the sport. These people need to be organized. [[Congratulation with SPÖ and ÖVP]] .. To support the Olympic Games. - There is a clear commitment by the Federal Government to support Carinthia's application for 2006, but we have also held it in preparation for the application for the 2004 European Football Championship in such a way that a clear procedure is defined, namely to identify the projects to be financed, and then to define a division key between municipalities, countries and the federal government, how funding should take place in the country in order to be able to provide a common guarantee for the total amount. As regards the sum of 12 billion schillings mentioned in a request, it must be said that this is not the basis of a specific project at present. It is quite early for a concrete cost approach. If the projects are identified, a financing plan will be drawn up which will also take into account what is covered by television rights, which is covered by private financing measures and which is then subject to a third division between the municipality, federal government and countries. In addition, of course, cross-border measures to be taken will also have to be calculated, and the total cost would of course be borne by three countries - not one. As soon as concrete figures are available, we will also take a decision accordingly in the relevant bodies. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] That means: A clear yes to the application Carinthia for the 2006 Winter Olympics, but in a form that is common with us in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP]] I believe that we should not go away from the usual practice of division between the local authorities, but should continue to maintain this procedure. Furthermore, it is not the first time that we are applying for such a major event. We have reached an excellent agreement with Tyrol for the year 2001 with regard to the Alpine Schivmeister. [[Detonatative condolences of the Abg. Dr. Khol]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I'm a Tyrolean!]] [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: In St. Anton!]] We also agreed with the ÖFB to support the application for the 2004 European Football Championship, and we will also agree with those responsible in Carinthia that the Federation will participate in the 2006 Olympic Games application. In essence, it can be said that the expenses of Austria in the "Group Sport" in the Federal Chancellor's Office are very significant internationally. I know, of course, that it can never be enough money for those who are interested in sports and for those who work in sports. Of course, we will also try to extend this budget over the next few years. But I believe that we can very well meet the basic needs and conditions of these amounts, as set out in the 1999 budget.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e10475	Mrs Aumayr is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e10490	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Mr State Secretary, you cannot do it as simply as you say it is about desires; They could not fulfill all the desires of the sports staff. - I don't think it's easy to meet basic needs. I can prove this to you by means of an example. The "Dachverband für Reiden und Fahren" takes the examinations from students who attend the riding school in Stadl Paura. My daughter has attended this school; the examination of the riding instructor is usually completed half a year after the school is finished. It is obvious that during this period the former pupils are already in a working or training relationship. That is, it is relatively difficult to get all students to study. If then a certain number of test subjects are not given, namely 20, there is simply no test because it is said: It's too expensive. - This method has now been used to ensure that three years after the end of the training, no examination of the riding instructor has been carried out. However, this is very bad for the careers of these students, and it has devastating consequences, both in financial terms and in vocational training. Mr State Secretary: There's danger in delay! This is really about training, about the advancement, also about the economic development of young people. Please take part in this field! Make sure that there is no such blockades due to savings! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I would like to say the following about Mrs Minister's statements: Mrs Minister, you said in the committee that I asked you what additional projects you would like to have in the area of women's promotion, which you requested during the budget negotiations, which additional budget resources you requested to be satisfied with. You would not have asked for it anymore, because as the situation would be, unless you were right. - So it's impossible that You have some criticism in the future, or you say that you would have wanted more, because you have practically entered the budget negotiations with a zero demand. In addition, I must say: It is very difficult for me to move on to the agenda today, on a day when a Member of this House can say tax-free to the clubman of the Freedom Party that he is a "mad dictator" - and this, Mr President, without any consequence, without a call for an order! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] Mr Grossruck! We could ask you why you're not in school anymore. We could also discuss another matter in this House. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Karlsson.]] On a day when a Member of Parliament, Mr Herb, says that Klubobmann Dr. Jörg Haider is a "mad dictator", and Mr Fischer is not able or willing to make a call to order, I must say: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fox]] That's really a scandal! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Or: The Green Clubman said in the direction of the Freeman: Here are the "spiritual pats" of the criminals, the Gauner and the criminals. - And without any consequence and without a call of order! One day, it's really hard to talk about things.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e10560	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Maier. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e10576	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Aumayr, I don't understand your excitement. I would remind you of yesterday's discussion, of the statements made by Mr Partik-Pablé, who has simply qualified our group as such, that half of the socialist group is in front of the judge. [[Abg. Aumayr: She didn't say that! I know, I've been here all the time!]] Mr Aumayr! Remember what happened here yesterday in this house! I don't understand. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I'd like to get to the point anyway. Unfortunately, Mr Motter is not present now. I would like to focus briefly on their suggestions on consumer policy. She said that Mrs Federal Minister Barbara Prammer had too little competence to think about an extension of competence. Since I myself have been active in consumer work for almost 20 years, I personally share this opinion. In Austria, consumer protection is a cross-sectional matter, located in the various Federal Ministries, and one has to ask why the award of prices is, for example, particularly with the Minister for Economic Affairs. If one conducts price surveys and, for example, insists that in the gastronomy 40 percent of entrepreneurs do not comply with the legal provisions, then the question is justified why nothing is happening here. We must also ask ourselves whether it makes sense for labelling schemes to be established either in the Ministry of Agriculture or in the Ministry of Economic Affairs. For example, I do not see at all why the Minister for Agriculture and not the Minister for Consumer Protection is responsible for the control of wineries. In addition, there is another very important aspect: Ms. Barbara Prammer, Federal Minister for Consumer Protection, is negotiator in Brussels, for example, on the issue of awarding prices - only in Austria, you are not nationally responsible. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I therefore believe that, in addition to day-to-day policy, we should consider how to better anchor consumer protection in Austria in a ministry. In Austria, consumer protection is ensured by four facilities: the Chambers of Workers, then the Consumer Information Association, the Federal Ministry responsible, and some company-dependent facilities such as tenants' associations, driver associations and the like. Most of this work takes place in the Chambers of Workers, which spend about 100 million schillings a year for advice. There are also around 100 employees working in consumer work. In addition, there is the "Consumer Information Union". This is an absolutely recognised and publicly highly valued social security institution. This social security institution - I repeat, I deliberately say the same as in the committee responsible - is currently in a bad financial situation. This depends - let me say this clearly - on the fact, Mr Schwarzböck, that a member of the "Consumer Information Union" is no longer willing to pay the member's contribution, as in recent years. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If I look at the 1999 budget proposal very critically when I look at budget expenditure for farmers and forestry farmers, namely for advice and training, which amounts to over 140 million schillings, I wonder what amount is justified for Austrian consumers. Mr Schwarzböck! I expect - and also the employees in Austria's Chambers of Workers and in the "Consumer Information Association" - that the Presidential Conference will also meet this necessary payment obligation in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! When it came to accession to the European Union, it was said that there was a decline in consumer policy in Austria. - The opposite has occurred! We have been given legal standards that we would not otherwise have received. For example, I recall the Time Sharing Directive, which has succeeded in deciding here in the House a right of withdrawal that lies above the directive. I should also like to briefly mention the distance selling directive or the guarantee directive on which we will have to discuss in the National Council in the near future. This is a challenge for national consumer policy. It is a question of exploiting the scope for action which the directive gives us. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Why are you talking so long?]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We are also concerned with ensuring that directives are fully implemented. In this context, I only recall the problems of the implementation of the package travel directive. Finally, let me keep the following: It is about the fact that we in Europe are actively influencing consumer policy. We must actively influence what the future product liability directive looks like, especially on the issue of causality. We must ensure that, in Austria, non-judicial dispute resolution bodies are set up as provided for in the Commission's recommendation. However, we also need to ensure access to justice in Austria as a whole. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Let us think about how we could manage to create an own Ministry of Consumer Protection with additional skills in Austria to protect consumers from health and wealth damage! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: We need that "safe"!]] Consumer protection should not be foreign, but should be located in a single ministry, in the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Federal Minister Barbara Prammer.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e10654	The next speaker is Mr Donabauer. Also 8 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e10669	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate! High house! The aim of this Federal Government, as its budgetary and fiscal policy shows in particular in the coming year, is to help to ensure that the common new European Economic and Monetary Area and thus also our country gain strength and stability. This is a very important requirement, and this takes full account of the 1999 budget. This does not change, either, if today the first speaker has gone to the speaker's desk and said that he expects the government parties to take up all of them and praise the budget. I'm going to stop this. Others come out and try to break and scandalize everything. Mrs. Aumayr! I understand your sadness that you're transporting here. [[Abg. Madl: It was trouble!]] - She's not here at all. - Just the following, please. If you complain about language and language culture here, I can already tell you that you and the representatives of your party have made a very decisive and negative contribution to changing the language culture here. So please keep that with you! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] The fact is that the 1999 budget estimate is seamlessly consistent with the progress made in recent years and contributes to our country's continuing development. We have a good order in Austria in most areas of our economy, and we have achieved with this budget that loss of income in agriculture, which is undoubtedly given, has been eliminated. We had a good employment situation with more than 3 million employees - as many as never before - although I believe that employment is a question that represents a major challenge for all of us. As an EU country, Austria meets the convergence criteria. That is why we will be able to carry out the changeover to the euro from the start, even if it does not fit one or the other. I mean, this is indeed a great achievement, to which my party, the Austrian People's Party, has contributed a lot. This 1999 budget estimate is available internationally, as is the fact that we are already carrying out this consultation and decision-making on the budget in May 1998. Austria can be seen in a European comparison with its policy! We have the obligation to continue this good and reasonable course for the benefit of our citizens, but above all for the benefit of our young people. And we will do the same! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In particular, through the consultation mechanism and the Stability Pact to be implemented, with the commitment of all local authorities to participate in, or participate in, a comprehensive budgetary policy, the maintenance of our budgetary policy is guaranteed and ensured in a sustainable manner. Despite this target-oriented and consolidation-oriented budgetary policy, there are a number of measures that create new state expenditure, for example the family package I believe is a significant step in a forward-looking direction. I believe that families in our country really need full support and recognition from all of us, and often urgently need it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to make a few comments on the chapters under discussion today. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I'm coming to the end!]] [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] In times of general budgetary discipline, public administration must be further developed in order to fulfil its tasks in the interests of all citizens and adapted to the conditions of new needs. We must be able to meet these new challenges by setting priorities in the administration. It is critical to note that the number of complaints in the Administrative and Constitutional Court does not decrease. On the contrary! The number of residues is large, and the duration of the complaints of this kind is no longer reasonable for applicants. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Dr. Khol.]] We hope, however, that remedial action, especially in the administrative court, will be taken by the newly created independent federal asylsenate in the field of asylum and xenophobia. We all have great expectations in the multi-disputed state reform, which I hope our coalition partner will also contribute with the corresponding openness. We have already taken the principles into account in 1992. Our clubman Khol is committed here. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Unfortunately, but unsuccessful!]] I hope that we will succeed in the near future and come to a new direction, because I believe that this is very important to us and that we cannot go beyond these tasks. Over time, so many things have changed that we urgently need a new distribution of tasks within the local authorities in order to make it easier for citizens to have access to justice. That such a thing is possible, Karlheinz Kopf and I have shown in recent days, with the AVG-Novelle. This is a milestone of a timely administrative procedure, with a number of procedural and deregulating measures. Here openness has been shown, but at the same time the legal protection of the citizens of our country has been greatly improved. High house! You can not only show good work, but you also have to talk about it, especially public speaking. In any case, we will continue to work in this direction by the ÖVP.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e10767	Mr Koppler. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e10793	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Aumayr has criticised the form in which we have spoken about her party observer Dr. Jörg Haider. [[Abg. Madl: Come on!]] [[New call of the abg. Madl.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If you are constantly insulting and defaming, you must not be surprised when such reactions come. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: Many VOESTlers are afraid of their workplace!]] I quote from the "Oberösterreichische Nachrichten" of the 13th century. May 1998, from two days ago [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: That was yesterday!]] "In no other party is the list of former general, central or other secretaries as long as the FP. By no other party, the political practices were made as raw as by the FP. No other party has used the democratic funds as easily and as often as the FP under Haider. No other political group has polarized and split society more than Haider's movement." - No Member said that, but that was a quote from the "Oberösterreichische Nachrichten" of the 13th century. May 1998! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Madl.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would have liked to comment on the Court of Auditors in my contribution to the debate, but would now like to express my disappointment with regard to the organization of today. [[Abg. Madl: That's easy now!]] It is unbearable that it is not organizationally possible to treat as important issues as women's affairs, sports, the Court of Auditors or the People's Procuratorate in blockage. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl]] The members of the public prosecutor's office are sitting in the hall, although five to six hours are not spoken at all about the public prosecutor's office or the Court of Auditors. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: That's interesting!]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion, I will no longer give an opinion on protest, but only thank the staff of the Court of Auditors and the People's Procuratorate for their work and wish them a warm welcome.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e10932	Mr Wurmitzer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Mr deputies, you have a voluntary speaking time of 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e10948	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate! Before I begin my actual debate, I would like to comment on the amendment tabled by Mr Reichhold on the higher allocation of funds for the conservation of the Hans-Kudlich-Warte in Lobenstein in the Czech Republic. Mr Reichhold! For the Austrian Farmers' Federation and the Austrian People's Party, the work and legacy of the farmer's freeman Hans Kudlich remain unforgettable and an order for the future. [[Abg. Madl: Nevertheless, you do not agree!]] Mrs. Colleague! Listen, you might understand me. [[Abg. Madl: Hard!]] For this reason, the Austrian Farmers' Federation has already used considerable resources in recent years, not tax, but own resources to restore and bring to a worthy state the birthplace of Hans Kudlich and also the monument at the Lobenstein cemetery. The Land Governments of Upper Austria, Lower Austria and Salzburg have also played a significant role in these measures. As a result, at least that place in which Hans Kudlich was really buried, namely at the cemetery of Lobenstein, was able to construct accordingly. In the course of these restructuring measures it was also agreed that the Hans-Kudlich-Warte in Lobenstein will be repaired by the Federal Republic of Germany with a cost of around 2 million Schilling. There is currently no reason to withdraw from this agreement. We Austrians - the Austrian Farmers' Federation, but also the Länder - have already made our contribution. That is why we do not see any reason to agree to your request. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: It also paid the ÖVP club!]] I am glad to hear that the Austrian People's Party National Council Club also participated in this measure. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: From the contributions!]] [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: From the donations of Members!]] I would also like to add that the Eco-Social Forum for the Remembrance of these great Austrians is giving an annual Hans-Kudlich Prize for Special Services for the Conservation of Agriculture in our Republic. That too is praiseworthy! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As far as the structure of today's debate is concerned, I would like to appeal to the President to consider whether the debate could not be held in a block, so that the answer to a question regarding the theatre does not follow a contribution to the sport or a contribution to the Court of Auditors to a different contribution which is not related to content. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You're a revolutionist!]] I'd like to buy it, Mr. Klubobmann. I would now like to address two chapters in the field of top organs. The first is the Court of Auditors. - Austria gives around 0.4 promills for its control - they hear correctly: 0,4 Promille! - off the budget. This is very, very little, considering what you get as a counter-performance: a competent, efficient and recognised control at all levels! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: (in the direction of Abg. May. Don't worry about anything?- Oh, my God!]] From this point of view, I would like to express my thanks to all the staff of the Court of Auditors, especially for the precision and high level of responsibility, but above all for the willingness to take on new tasks, such as the examination of legal interest representatives or accompanying audits in connection with the EU. That is why I will also articulate a request from the Court of Auditors and its employees in this Chamber. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Müller.]] Staff representatives have been seeking their own salary schemes for the Court of Auditors for decades. The People's Party supports this desire. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We support it for two reasons: firstly, to comply with commitments that have been decades old, and secondly, because, since we have the highest quality standards in the work of the Court of Auditors, we need highly qualified people there, but they are not only sought in the Court of Auditors, but everywhere in the economy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is therefore absolutely in the Republic's interest that the posts of an auditor are attractive and that the control body continues to function as positively as was the case in the past. I would like to say an open word at the next review of the Court of Auditors' Subcommittee: In today's debate, it was criticized by the opposition that it would be blocked in the committee by the government parties. - That doesn't match the facts at all! We have also not rejected any pre-loading of members of the government! However, in order to clarify our behaviour, we have rejected the fact that the Court of Auditors' Subcommittee is becoming a platform for opponents and advocates of the "close-to-close trajectory", since we do not want to review the extension or re-issue of a conflict, but only to examine it. For us, the most important thing is to find a way out of the crisis there. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We do not want to see thousands and thousands of people in this area continue to wait for a solution to traffic issues. The Committee will be in vain if we do not succeed in providing a suitable and portable solution to the stanchers, to the Woechachers and to the readers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On another topic, the Austrian minorities, allow me to say the following: The objective of the Austrian People's Party's minority policy is very simple: first, the preservation of the ethnic and cultural diversity of our country and, second, the peaceful development of our continent. - For in minority areas, state and popular borders do not agree, and there is no lasting peace without the solution of the minority question. Examples such as Northern Ireland or the Basque Country show that where there is still war in Europe today, conflicts are often due to unresolved minority issues. The just said applies, of course, to the German-speaking minority in Slovenia - I would like to stress this explicitly! We are very grateful to Dr. Stefan Karner for his basic work. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The work Dr. Karners can be considered as the basis for a new quality of the neighborhood with our southern neighbor Slovenia. I therefore hope that the cultural agreement between Austria and Slovenia can be concluded quickly. It is an important milestone on the way to the EU in Slovenia. At the end of 1997, the term of office of the People's Advisory Councils came to an end. There are now relatively large problems in re-ordering. So far, the members of the Advisory Boards have been sent by associations and organizations. However, there are often insurmountable contradictions there for human or historical reasons. That is why we propose by the People's Party a democratization of the order mode for the People's Groups Advisory Councils. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Very right!]] It is high time to find another basis for this, since in the future we will sometimes no longer be able to occupy national councils by common accord. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Posch! Listen!]] On this point, I believe that the opinion of Mr Ofner has already been expressed in this House today. We must call on the Federal Chancellor to go new ways in this area. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Minorities must be satisfied. Satisfied minorities are the best guarantee for the successful development of the Republic of Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e11159	Reported to word for the second time... [[Abg. Applebeck is heading towards the Bureau.]] Ladies and gentlemen, what is now? [[Abg. Apple beck: An answer to that!]] What does that mean? I have a second speech by Mrs Ing. Reichhold. I will now call this word. - Ladies and gentlemen, please come to the speaker's desk. You have an open speaking time of 12 minutes available. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e11191	Mr President. High house! I would like to reply to the speech by Mr Wurmitzer, who referred once again to the proposal we have tabled on the freedom of farmers Hans Kudlich. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! It is essential to support any initiative... [[Abg. Wormitzer: Was that wrong what I said?]] No, no, no, It is to be supported by any initiative that supports the memory of the farmer-free Hans Kudlich. We have also contributed to the measures you have mentioned. However, I would remind you that this restructuring measure concerns a house that is neither owned by the public nor owned by the family, but private. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: But when Museum is made available to the public!]] Yes! However, the restructuring measures of this House are ultimately and in the long term for the benefit of the private owner. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Contracts over 30 years!]] Mr Schwarzenberger! I asked myself very carefully about this. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: But you didn't understand!]] The real memory of Hans Kudlich, the monument of honour, which the then peasantry established to him, is however the Kudlich-Warte in Lobenstein. As my previous speaker Wurmitzer has already said, this one has a much higher amount of renovation, one of about 2 million schillings. It is entirely new to me that there are agreements that the Federal Republic of Germany has to accept. I can't believe it either, since the direct follow-up to Hans Kudlichs, university professor Kudlich, who is responsible for the renovation of this wait, has come up with a request to support this rehabilitation measure via the economist Sepp Ertel at many official places in Austria. I think it simply for the duty of Austria, both the Republic and the institutions calling on Hans Kudlich, to praise this famous and important man always and to make a contribution to the restoration of the Kudlich Wart, because I believe he has accomplished a historical achievement which is seeking in the history of its own. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] For Hans Kudlich has freed 14 million farmers from slavery! That is why I call on you - and I also call on you, Mr Wurmitzer - to accept this request.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e11270	I now call on Mrs Applebeck to make an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e11288	Mr President. I am correcting Mr Wurmitzer of the great coalition. [[Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann: ÖVP!]] Mr Wurmitzer claimed that the ÖVP had not rejected a pre-loading of members of the government in the Court of Auditors' Subcommittee. [[Abg. Wurmitzer: Responsible!]] Mr Wurmitzer! [[Abg. Brix: You have already explained this to us today!]] I know I've already explained this today, but you haven't understood it yet! [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: What?]] I'm sorry I'm...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e11354	Ladies and gentlemen, don't be annoyed! Please stay with the correction.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e11376	It is true that Mrs Waltraud Klasnic's cargo was rejected as a former speaker for road construction and economics. Mrs. Waltraud Klasnic is still a member of the government and would be very grateful to you if she were not considered a member of the government. [[Subsequent calls at SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign the other day.]] The Committee also rejected the following charges: Mr Altlandeshautpmann Dr. Josef Krainer, former road construction representative, also Minister of State Dr. Wolfgang Schüssel and Commissioner for Agriculture Dr. Franz Fischler. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: He is not an Austrian member of the government!]] But he was in charge at the time. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Do you also want to invite President Clinton?]] [[Further calls at SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] In addition, a cargo of the environmental lawyer of Styria, Hofrat Dr. Oswald, was rejected. This list was available to stick to the truth about who was rejected and who did not yet complete.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e11455	Mr Lösnak is now speaking. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e11481	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate! High house! I would like to contribute to a segment of the sport chapter in today's debate. The distribution of federal sports facilities has been discussed for many years, and it is not only about a volume of around 200 million per anno, but also about evaluating the results of the business advice that you, Mr State Secretary, have been gratefully using, but also about maintaining my conviction that sport is an important and unique institution in Europe. That is why sport as a whole welcomes this initiative of exclusion, and I particularly welcome the statement you have made today, Mr State Secretary. But it must be noted on this occasion that this distribution can only take over the Federal Sport Organisation under certain conditions if it is to take over the distributed sports facilities under certain conditions. However, I agree with what ÖSV has already achieved with regard to the Bundessportheime St. Christoph and Kitzsteinhorn and the Austrian Aero-Club regarding the Spitterberg, that the Bundessportsorganisation, i.e. the non-governmental part of the sport, can only operate the remaining six federal sports facilities if certain premises are fulfilled. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schweitzer]] Premise 1: The aim must be maintained, i.e. the Federal Sports Institutions must primarily serve the sport. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer:... hunter and so on!]] Secondly, It must be ensured that cost savings can also be achieved with more efficient management. [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have already come to this. Thirdly, it must be ensured that no abuse can happen with the federal sports institutions and that the funding is therefore not used incorrectly. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer:... has always made vacation there!]] - But it's been a long time, you know that! Mr President, this has been a long time since we no longer have to mention it, unless we want to see every opportunity to sow distrust that you have already mentioned today. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: No! Because we have shown this at the time and this is what will be decided today!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Leikam.]] I don't know if that's the only reason! But I don't like to argue about paternity. They shall have a partiality in this child; that shall not be disputed. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Thank you!]] Mr Schweitzer! Sport wants this distribution under these premises, and it is also willing to participate in these awards. I would like this to be deposited in this House today in the very short time I have spoken for a long time. - I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e11578	Mrs Fuchs is now speaking. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e11593	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of Ladies and gentlemen on the government bank! High house! I would like to address a subject that all of you have been able to follow in the media in the last few weeks. I do not mean, however, as you may have feared, that Mr Rosenstingl's absence, not the "Genitalian gripper" Rumpold, or half a billion schilling, which has been counted as damage today, is no, I mean the book price fixing. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schweitzer]] [[Congratulation of the Abg. Müller]] As you have been able to follow in the media in recent weeks and months, the EU Commission has opened a formal procedure against cross-border agreements between publishing houses and bookstores in Germany and Austria. From the perspective of EU Competition Commissioner Karel van Miert, the fixed price for books in the two countries is not compatible with free competition within the EU. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to start the discussion already today, as the budgetary framework of possible necessary funding needs to be re-examined in the context of a new legal regulation. It is up to us to find a quick and sensible solution. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What is the point of maintaining book pricing? - The proponents, for example, believe that price fixing is especially necessary in order to ensure full regional supply and not to exclude entire regions from cultural transport. It also says that only through the charging of retail prices can a variety of titles and a wide range of different content be offered. It ensures the guaranteed price for books that are well-selling and thus facilitates large and small publishers to finance books where there is lower demand. Not least, the restricted price competition at the final sales level leads to an increased competition of services to the customer, for example, the delivery of non-supply books within one day. There are, however, other arguments that are against the abolition of book pricing. For example, few titles could become cheaper, but a larger number of books could be more expensive that small bookstores can no longer afford a wide range, the average offer and also the service are falling, smaller cultural publications are under pressure and medium-sized bookshops in Austria - so that valuable jobs can be destroyed - because book sales could be shifted to large bookshop chains as well as supermarkets and similar. This would also reduce the number of bookstores. State aid should be increased considerably in order to ensure the financing of non-commercial titles and to maintain the comprehensive supply of books. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to point out very clearly that the book is not just a commercial product: It is also an essential cultural asset of our society and an important leader in a pluralist society. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I have, of course, listed some arguments pro and counter, and I now call on you to enter the debate at the parliamentary level so that we can reach an opinion on this as soon as possible. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e11666	Mrs Anna Huber has now come to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e11693	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen in the High House! In view of the tasks that will be undertaken in this area in the future, the budgetary approaches in the field of consumer protection are not to be described as excessive. We are living at a time when technical and scientific development entails a rapid change in the environment. Completely new products are on the market: Just think of the entire field of "Novel Food" and the genetically modified food! The trend is towards completely new distribution channels and new market forms resulting from technological development in the field of information and telecommunications. In order for consumers to get involved and to benefit from their opportunity, but also to recognise the risks and risks, targeted information for consumers is of utmost importance. In my opinion, companies - for example by means of clear, clear labelling rules - are to be taken into account as well as public authorities. What priorities will there be in the consumer sector next year? - I consider the area of guarantee to be the area in which there will be by far the most problems and concerns. This also shows very clearly the new report on the situation of consumers. The proposal for a Council of Ministers for a uniform warranty period of 24 months for movable and non-movable goods would, in my opinion, be a very suitable compromise, although I would of course have liked the original proposal to be a three-year deadline. I am particularly pleased that the burden of proof is enshrined in this proposal within the first six months in favour of the consumer. Given the possibilities of telecommunications, legal regulations in the field of financial services seem to me particularly important and high in time. Especially in this extremely sensitive and booming area, consumers can be particularly easily overestimated. It is about money, partly about long-term ties and long-term contracts, which require appropriate consumer protection. I hope that there will be significant steps in the Austrian Presidency towards a rapid agreement on a European directive. I would like to reaffirm once again the social democratic position on the changeover to the euro from the fullness of consumer policy demands that still need to be implemented. The Euro project is very intensive in everyday life. In my opinion, therefore, we need, first of all, a mandatory double award! However, as provided for in the draft of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, this must not be limited only to the large companies which have already voluntarily committed themselves to competition. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] I cannot imagine that all small and medium-sized enterprises will be completely excluded. The smaller farms could - that would be important and correct - obtain relief in terms of double pricing. In my opinion, we also need additional independent price monitoring for the transition period, because there must be no price increases through the back door. In Austria we have a relatively high level of consumer protection in the European comparison, with emphasis on "relative" because practice shows that, despite some important steps in recent years, there are still a number of concerns for consumers to be realized. For this we will still have to use - better said: more than ever.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e11745	The next item is the speech by Mr Leikam. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e11764	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, lawyers! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Two minutes before the end of yesterday's parliamentary session, the Liberal and Democratic Group has tabled a resolution calling on the Federal Government to use 11 billion schilling for the implementation of the Carinthian Olympic application and for the Olympic Games in general. However, there was no longer any possibility of commenting on this request in any form. Following the submission of this request, the President closed the debate and a debate on the commercial authorisation of this request was held. Finally, the President decided that this request would be accepted. Ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. The seriousness of this request must be strongly questioned. No Member in this House had the request. If one asks for 11 billion schilling from the Federal Government and one and a half minutes before the conclusion of a session to do so, then the seriousness of such a desire is simply not given! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Madl.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. How quickly the times change! I must point out that only a few weeks ago, there was a written question to the Federal Chancellor and to the Deputy Chancellor, signed by Dr. Grollitsch, Dr. Haider, colleagues, in which he was accused of having personally applied for the Carinthian Olympia. The request also includes the wording of whether it would not have been more useful to nominate a purely Austrian applicant and not to support "Senza confini", the cross-border application, as an Austrian candidate. You asked this question a few weeks ago, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ. - Yesterday. However, she felt obliged to bring in the motion for a resolution referred to above in just a few minutes before the end of the sitting. Ladies and gentlemen! It is not understandable why this request has come about, except for party-political considerations. If the Federal Government really had to make such a request, then the negligence would have been, for there is nothing at all, ladies and gentlemen! ==References====External links== In June, when the project is complete, it will be possible to talk specifically about the process and the financing of the project as a whole. ==References== In July the dossier will be completed so that it can be written in German, French and English. ==References====External links== This dossier will be presented to the International Olympic Committee on September. Then the Members of Parliament will also receive this dossier. Then the Federal Government can make a global statement that it is generally willing to support the Olympic Games in Austria, and that it has to take responsibility for failure for an arbitrary outcome. - That's the procedure in the next few weeks. Deputies Grabner, Kopf, Leikam, Wurmitzer, Dr. Mertel, Gatterer, Dr. Antoni, Müller and Mag. That is why Posch will be submitting a motion for a resolution today. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: 4 minutes before the end of the debate!]] The application has the following wording. [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is the way to go! Austria has such a high credit throughout the world, especially in the international sports world, that we can really build on trust in this country and in those who have this country outside. This is evidenced by many actions of recent times. Two World Championships are at the doorstep. Ladies and gentlemen! I would ask you to give your assent to this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e11844	The motion for a resolution which has just been read is properly tabled, duly supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Mag. Posch. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e11866	Mr President. High house! I would like to comment briefly on two issues. Firstly, in connection with the ethnic groups or minorities, I would like to point out that the total increase in funding has been made in recent years, but is now slightly reversed. - That's a point. Unfortunately, little progress has been made in this area. I do not think it right to junctify the group advisory board of the Slovenians or its increase in the cultural agreement with Slovenia. I would be very pleased if we could make progress here! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would also very much welcome the length of ratification of the Charter of Regional Minority Languages, as it has been available for six years, to Parliament. And I would also like to convey the novels of the People's Group Law. Mr Wurmitzer, with his remarks, is quite right that tolerance is very important for living together, but in recent times the problems with multilingual kindergarten groups are increasing, because these problems are in the autonomy of the communities and because there are many resentments on the ground. Therefore, in reality, a legal regime would be necessary. In this context, I would like to mention positively the activities of the National Fund; Mr Stoisits has already said that today. I would also like to stress positively the worthy celebration in the Reichsratsssshalle on the occasion of the commemorative day against racism on 5 May. May. It was generally a worthy celebration, and it has also left us in the speeches so many plateaus. So I come to the second chapter to which I wanted to express myself, namely the chapter Art: Unfortunately, the art budget is stagnating. I am all the more pleased that you, Mr State Secretary, have announced that the advanced target for the turn of the millennium will be 1.5 billion schilling. Unfortunately, the theatre and the festival bind a major part of the promotions. The film institute alone, the theatre in Josefstadt, the Salzburg Festival, the Volkstheater and the Bregenzer Festival cost the taxpayers 359 million Schilling per year. That's a third of the entire art budget! Therefore, for new forms of art and also for the social protection of artists, there is a lack of financial means. - I think the art budget needs to grow again. Perhaps, like in sports, you could also be lucky for the art of lotto media. I would very much welcome that! Perhaps you could take away some lotto media from sports and transfer them to art and in this way increase the promotion of art. As for the upcoming Federal Theatre Organisation Act, I share a little the scepticism of some - including the castle actor Brandauer - because I believe that the former Federal Theatre Association has worked very well. Under the new theatre holding GesmbH four GesmbH are established, the Burgtheater GesmbH, the Volksoper GesmbH, the Staatsoper GesmbH and Theaterservice GesmbH, with the three stage companies being run by two executives each: one for the artistic and one for commercial affairs, the other for which the artistic director is assigned a budget within which he can move freely. - So far, so good. I believe that this is positive in the sense of self-responsibility for the budget. However, whether it will succeed in getting the two critical cost points under control, namely the pensions and the technology, I dare to doubt a very little, and whether the Bundestheater will be cheaper after the disbursement, I do not know, because the objective of a society with limited liability to achieve profits will be difficult to achieve by the state governments. According to § 7 para. 2 of the Bundestheaterorganisationsgesetz (Bundestheaterorganisationsgesetz) is granted annually to the new companies a base charge of 1.8 billion schilling for the fulfilment of the cultural policy mission. This contribution was calculated from the 1998 budget, with the pension burden not to be borne by the houses. If the theater - despite economic, economic and useful behaviour - needs further resources, the state will not get out of its responsibility. In this respect, everything will stay with the old theatres. Finally, a word for the audience advisory board, which is associated with this theatre holding GesmbH: His activity is purely consultative, he has no co-determination rights. However, he sits in the Supervisory Board and is therefore responsible for personnel decisions and ensemble decisions. He has to make technical recommendations on theatre matters, for example on issues relating to the fulfilment of the cultural policy mission. And there will be problems - apart from the composition of the audience council with representatives of the Federal Youth Council and the Senior Council. I would point out that all the directors are against such an advisory board that many make fun of it and call it a taste police. In this context, Mr. Blaha speaks of a "former medical wave" from the cultural presence of a large Austrian party, of "Quotenjagd" and "Zensurnah". - In reality it is a very small, late "Lex Peymann" because one is afraid of social and cultural control, which has lost a very little with this advisory board. That is why I would like to drop this advisory board. In the "Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung" Ulrich Weinzierl writes: "What will happen to the future High Council, no one knows exactly, and that is the fine thing. For this, he will meet at least three times a year and count 24 heads. Members of the Advisory Council are both the Graz Author's Assembly and the PEN Club, the Bundesjugendring and the Senior Council. It is rare that the Animal Protection Association, the Catholic Church and the Freidenkerbund remain locked out of democratic participation." The enthusiasm of the intensants is also limited. "Ioan Holder calls it'very unnecessary', Klaus Bachler a 'Witz', his successor to the Volksoper, Dominique Menta a 'principal idiotic idea'. ... We see this naturally different from the unholy alliances of direct highliness. Firstly, it has always been good to have ancient Austrian civil servants to create problems where none are. Secondly, either by leaving houses or by setting up commissions and sub-committees of any kind." - Citation. I agree. He's a little sick, this audience councillor. This is in favour of maintaining the judicial board, because what no one wants has a good chance to be enforced in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e11934	Mr Grollitsch is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Time left: 6 minutes. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e11952	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! A request has now been submitted to us just before the end of the meeting. The accusation you made to us yesterday, when we tried something comparable and appealed to your reason, has therefore gone unbelievable and empty. You tried to shoot back with the same "Kaliber". It's all right. We have been told several times today that our group has made a single move in this regard. We were made aware that the Olympic idea would require the introduction of multi-party applications, as far as possible by all parties. Now you've taught us "one better" again: They simply brought together the Socialist Members of the Kärntens for this request. We will carry along the general flakes contained in this request. There's nothing bad about that. In fact, they only prove that Mr. Dr. Ausserwinkler has not yet fulfilled his functions in this regard, that he has failed and that there is a high need for repetition. If you believe that with these formulations of the Olympic ideas in Carinthia you can give a boost: We will not shut up with this! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e11983	No one has been reported in the word anymore. That concludes the debate. A final word of the rapporteur is not sought. We are entering the voting procedure, and I ask the honourable Members to take their place. We shall now proceed to the vote. First of all, we are voting on the advisory group I of the Federal proposal for the year 1999. This includes Chapters 01 to 06 of the Federal Proposal in 1100 of the Supplements as amended by the Special Report in 1160 of the Supplements. Deputies Ing. Reichhold and comrades have tabled an amendment here. First of all, I will vote on the financial approach affected by the proposed amendment and finally on the remaining parts of the advisory group I of the Federal Government proposal for 1999. Deputies Ing. Reichhold and comrades have tabled an amendment concerning the estimate approach 1/02108 and the resulting changes to the sum amounts. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask for an appropriate sign. - This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. I am therefore immediately voting on this part of the financial legal approach to the federal proposal for the year 1999 in the version of the government proposal. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. - This is the majority. Accepted. We are now dealing with the remaining parts of Chapters 01 to 06 of the Federal Proposal in 1100 of the Supplements as amended by the Special Report in 1160 of the Supplements. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. - This is the majority. Accepted. We shall also vote on the consultation group II of the Federal Proposal for 1999. This includes Chapter 10, 13 and the corresponding part of the economic compensatory proposal and Chapter 71 of the Federal Proposal in 1100 of the Supplements as amended by the Special Report in 1160 of the Supplements. Deputies Mag. Stadler and comrades have tabled an amendment here. I will therefore first vote on the financial approaches affected by the proposed amendment and, finally, on the remaining parts of the advisory group II of the Federal Government proposal for 1999. Deputies Mag. Stadler and comrades have tabled an amendment concerning the estimates 1/10434, 1/10456 and 1/10466 and the resulting changes to the sum amounts. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask for an appropriate sign. - This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. I am therefore immediately voting on these parts of the financial approach to the federal proposal for the year 1999 in the version of the government proposal. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. - This is the majority. The request was accepted. We are now voting on the remaining parts of Chapter 10, 13, together with the corresponding part of the economic compensatory proposal and 71 of the Federal Proposal in 1100 of the Supplements as amended by the Special Report in 1160 of the Supplements. In case of your consent, I ask you for a sign to be given. - That's the majority. The request was accepted. According to § 55 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure, I now propose that the vote be taken on the motion for a resolution tabled during the negotiation of the Consultative Group II of the Federal Finance Act. On the other hand, is there an objection? - This is not the case. That's why I'm doing this. We therefore come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Grabner, Mr Head and Mr Comrade on Austrian Olympic application 2006. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. - This sign is done by the vote. Accepted. (E 121.) The agenda is exhausted. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e12123	I would also like to point out that in today's sitting, self-employed applications 774/A to 780/A have been tabled. Questions 4412/J to 4432/J were also raised. Finally, a question by Dr Petrovic and Comrades, 31/JPR, has been sent to the President of the National Council. Findings concerning the unpunished absence of a Member
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00121_d7e12150	Finally, I note that Mr Peter Rosenstingl has remained distant from this meeting, and I am not apologising for it. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Friday, 15. In May 1998, 9 a.m., with the following agenda: Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (1100 and 1100 of the Supplements): Federal Finance Act for the year 1999 and Investments (1160 of the Supplements). Consultation Group IX: Economic Affairs, Advisory Group X: Science and transport, Advisory Group VI: Education and cultural affairs. There is no Question Time at this part-session. The sitting is closed.
