ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e2201	Ladies and gentlemen! I can warmly welcome you and open the 113. Meeting of the National Council. As an obstacle to today's meeting, MEPs are Dkfm. Holger Bauer, Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn, Scheibner, Mag. Chief, Wenitsch and Dr. Hazelsteiner. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e2235	The Federal Chancellery has communicated a resolution by the President of the Federal Government concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government as follows: The Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs Dr. Schüssel is represented by the Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein. Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e2259	We'll get to the current hour. As a subject, it was proposed that: "Total monitoring of Austrians despite data protection" On the grounds of the topic of the current hour, Mrs Dr Schmidt spoke at a speaking time of 10 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e2289	Good morning! It is true that the overall Assembly is weakly occupied, admittedly with all the political groups. [[Abg. Kiss: You are the least!]] The least? - Not in the relationship. But you don't listen to me. I have said: admittedly with all the political groups. [[Intervening calls and cheerfulness at the ÖVP.]] I don't know what you're doing. Above all, I wonder how you can take things as loosely as you can act in such a more loose way when it comes to a subject that really goes to the mark of the rule of law. [[Prolonged calls.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] This is an issue that goes to the mark of the rule of law. The warnings of the liberals before the introduction of the noise attack and the grid arrest are known. At the time, we were often as if we were in a fight against windmills, especially because of the constant use of the Cologne arguments, it was about the fight against organized crime, and it was mainly about producing arms equality between criminals and the state that persecuted them. Both arguments are so absurd, because we or other critics of noise attack and grid arrest will not want us to seek instruments against organised crime that we are not interested in an efficient fight against organised crime. In our opinion, it is only a matter of ensuring that, at least in a rule of law, the means by which this is done. And if you really believe that there must be a level playing field between criminals and those who persecute them, I must stop you from doing so at the expense of the rule of law. It was then a little bit achieved in the decision-making process on Rasterfändung, a bit of a bit - perhaps also a success of our constant warning. This has led to the fact that one has acted as if one could calm down the situation at the moment. Now it is a question of taking a next step, from the police's ranks; from this side there has also been pressured to get the instruments in the hands of the search for grid and noise. And again, the argument of the equality of arms is to be heard. The criminal psychologist of the Ministry of the Interior, who literally stated that equality of arms is the prerequisite for combating crime, is not alone in his opinion, but is in line with it in a number of politicians of this House. In this context, I recall a discussion with Mr Klubobmann Khol, who also needed this word, and I recall many other statements in this direction. So one really believes that the rule of law should be placed on a level with criminals in many things, because it serves a good purpose. [[Unrest in the hall.]] If you really think such things are possible, you have to face up to what is already happening in our country.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e2349	Can I interrupt for a moment? – Ladies and gentlemen! I asked at the beginning of the sitting to take the seats, and I keep this request. Ladies and gentlemen, please continue!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e2367	It is known that social security schemes collect the health data of patients. It is known that banks collect the financial data of their customers. It is known that shipping houses determine the shopping habits of their consumers. It is known that eating habits can be verified and understood via credit cards. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Who's doing this?]] It is known that this is being collected. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Who's doing this?]] The warehouses themselves, because there are corresponding lists! You know that the banks have this, you know that social security funds have it. You know that's what the hospitals have. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: What about the eating habits?]] As far as eating habits are concerned, it is obvious that Their imagination is not to imagine that, if you have statements about the bills paid by credit cards, restaurants that occur over and over again, of course, the image of a person can draw the eating habits they have in which to go to the locals they eat. Since the head weighs, I think it's a real refusal. What you do with it is a question of the future. You're right. I am only concerned with showing what is already possible in this context. I think that not to realize this as a politician or a politician is not responsible. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] We continue with all that can be found in habits: If you look at the award habits in video libraries, which movies, even which actors are preferred by the consumer, by the consumer – and these lists exist – then I no longer need to talk about the official data that are there: Driver's license, registration note, including religious confession, as we know, criminal record information and all that is necessary, and I didn't now mean the record to its full extent. I think it is necessary to keep in mind what is already possible to show what is being held today and what can therefore be done with the networking of these data with the transmission of these data. If you still consider the technical revolution on the telephone market, if you know that today it is possible to create travel pictures from someone, without his knowledge, because a mobile phone has constant frequencies that can be recorded, and you therefore know exactly when anyone has moved to where that has to be. In fact, it is technical reality that this is possible. If one still knows that all the data from talks to the six months - often even longer in Austria - will be deleted, on the one hand, in order to meet complaints, but on the other hand, in order to be able to comply with orders from the police, one must realize that it is a horror scenario if there is a public demand from the police to create a surveillance opportunity now through word scanners. This would mean that all telephone calls can be monitored because they are switched on if any code word falls and can then be used. This opens up a dimension that is driving me cold showers over my back, because that makes it clear what we have said from the outset: that this first step, which these two coalition parties have put in place, opens a lock that can no longer be closed at all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] Even worse, if you, in addition to that from your resort, say that this is happening and is quite normal for you. That is the reason why the military intelligence service urgently needs proper control, right up to the abolition. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] It seems that it has not been realized, even if we have warned that the introduction of noise attack and grid search reverses the presumption of innocence. Now, hopefully, everyone will understand that all citizens in our country are treated by this State, by this Minister of the Interior as suspects, on the grounds that: After all, we make a difference between the guilty and the innocent. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Such nonsense!]] Once you have to distinguish between the dimensions "suspect" and "unsuspecting" and "guilty" and "innocent". That would be even more beautiful if the guilty and the innocent were treated equally! But that you treat suspects and unsuspectings the same way, once you're all potentially monitoring, that's unbearable for me! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] That's why I'm saying: With our current data protection law, we have a toothless instrument to really stop such surveillance madness. I therefore call on you not to close your eyes and not to come up with arguments that it is necessary to take action against criminals. If you really accept that you want to create a level playing field, then we have given up the rule of law.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e2472	On the subject of the current hour, the Minister for the Interior spoke. The speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e2493	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Mrs Dr Schmidt, it is not a question of the Austrian Minister of the Interior or the Austrian Executive closing our eyes to realities, but of dealing with this problem very sensitively together. You have also argued very differentiatedly here today. You have not only argued about the danger posed by other public institutions, but you have also shown very well what dangers there are in the area of private and semi-public institutions. I think it is the right way for us to focus very strongly on this second level. As for what you have said, I would also like to point out that this scenario, which some of you have mentioned, Wall is painted, namely, a total monitoring of the Austrians, a scenario which, at least as far as the Austrian executive is concerned, does not in any way correspond to reality and also lacks any basis. Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian Executive and the Ministry of the Interior do not create "state in the state" and "glass people" through the new methods of investigation, but we operate when we use these new methods of investigation – and we will only make them from 1. In July 1998, based on the rule of law, it is possible to use it on the basis of an exemplary Austrian data protection legislation. Ladies and gentlemen! We have used a lot of control mechanisms in Parliament's decision-making last year, and I would like to make it very clear that, with regard to these control mechanisms, all three opposition parties have been very strongly involved in the discussion. It has been done by the two government parties, but also by the relevant ministries, to take into account the wishes, fears and fears of the opposition parties. We have therefore introduced a time-limit for the new methods of investigation. In the field of the Ministry of the Interior, we will issue a secret protection order to provide the greatest possible protection against the disclosure of secret data or private data. We have also introduced a legal protection officer. It was made clear that when these methods are used, a proportionality for the purpose of the measure must be maintained. It has been clarified and also established by law that these new methods of investigation may only be used when it comes to organised crime or to clarify crime situations which have been committed with more than ten years of imprisonment. We have made it clear that certain professional secrets are excluded, and there is an annual reporting obligation to the Austrian Parliament by the Minister of Justice. I therefore believe that we have taken the implementation of the new investigation methods very seriously. We have tried to create a network which can ensure that there are no abuses and no overruns here. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that every Austrian and every Austrian has a fundamental right to data protection, has a legal right to the protection of his personal data. That is why we should also consider the fact that modern communication society has made people more transparent. An in-depth discussion of this problem shows that the danger and threat to the intimate atmosphere by private and semi-public institutions is greater than the threat posed by the new methods of investigation by gene arms and executives. As I have already said, the Austrian executive operates under strict legal conditions and under the supervision of the judicial system. However, data in the private sector are more or less uncontrolled and more or less uncontrollable passed on, partially startled or linked. This space is virtually law-free and makes use of, among other things, private coverage, trade chains, address dealers and other institutions. In these areas, it is supposed to be gridled, it is said that life habits, purchasing tendencies are to be determined, it is supposed that road maps are drawn and that what is obvious is also traded personal data when you look at the submissions that each one of us receives. This is largely without reaction to all those who suspect an attack on civil rights behind every police investigation. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: How do you take this without any reaction? That's not true!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In a recently published book and in a series of articles, it has been falsely claimed – and you have said this again today, ladies and gentlemen – that the police are holding the hearing of GSM hands, and it has appeared that the police are indiscriminately listening to mobile phones using a so-called word scanner. That, ladies and gentlemen, is not true. The Austrian executive does not. [[Abg. Dr Schmidt: Yes! Do they want it or not?]] The reality is that telephonic surveillance, to tell you only as an example, is only possible with judicial approval. The reality looks so that at present we do not have the technical prerequisites to listen to these GSM hands. And even if the Austrian executive has these technical requirements, this can only be done by judicial order. There was also a very long and intensive public discussion about the so-called value-card telephone. In my opinion, the problems that the Austrian executive has with these value-card phones have been pitied. In fact – and I can prove it at any time – this kind of telephone is increasingly used by offenders, especially in the addiction area. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: They also write letters! Do you want to give up the secret of the letter?]] This problem not only concerns Austria, but also presents the executive in the fight against organised crime with a heavy task in other European countries. Ladies and gentlemen! With call data recovery, we have already had a wealth of search results in the past, and I do not think it can be in our interest to get rid of this important search tool. Therefore, efforts in the area of the European Union are being made to develop uniform rules for value-card telephones. Mrs Schmidt, to say quite clearly: I am concerned and the Austrian Ministry of the Interior is not about a ban on this value-card telephone. What we want is that value card phones are also registered, that we know who the owner of this value card phone is. We see this problem across Europe and therefore, when it comes to a regulation, we want only a European system. There will be no Austrian solo entrance. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The regulations on telephoning or technical observation are very narrow in law, and the conditions for Austrian executives are, of course, very strict due to the legal situation. This also applies, as I have already mentioned, to the new methods of investigation, which are based on 1. ==References====External links==* Official website I can tell you that we are currently setting up a special unit which is directly subject to the Director-General for Public Security and that we are going to look very closely at which persons are active in this special unit, what equipment and what training. The professional approach, while safeguarding the absolute security of data protection, must and will also be guaranteed. However, this unit will not only deal with listening, but also with the defence of noise attacks, so that any noise attacks by private persons, as well as foreign intelligence and intelligence services can be promoted. Telephone surveillance – I can confirm and assure you – is only used in the event of sufficient suspicion and only when a corresponding success is expected. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Is the use of a word sufficient for suspicion?]] Ladies and gentlemen! In 1996, 319 telephone controls were carried out. All year 1996 319! This figure alone shows how rarely is used in view of the high number of telephone connections of this kind. I see no danger of an innocent person entering the network of Austrian executives. To conclude: We do not want to listen in the living rooms of Austrian citizens, but what we want is to fight crime and organised crime. Our investigation methods guarantee the greatest possible protection of the intimate atmosphere of our citizens. This illustrates, for example, the small number of telephonic surveillance, as I have already said. Of course, I am aware that security policy is too often a balancing act, which must be taken into account to ensure that the integrity of citizens is guaranteed to the greatest extent and that it is exclusively a matter of clarifying crimes and maintaining security. I am convinced that this balancing act in Austria will be to be created due to the data protection provisions for the Austrian executive. Of course, it must be our common mission to develop the greatest possible sensitivity. In our country, the citizens are fortunately living in great freedom of movement. The means of intervention of the security authorities are precisely standardised and well controlled and adapted to the needs of citizens, but also to the needs of modern crime control. I will make every effort to ensure that this will remain so in the future with your support and control.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e2575	Thank you, Minister of State. In the further debate, the speaking time is 5 minutes. Mr Dr Kier came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e2602	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister Schlögl! They have announced a number of things here, which must be quickly and decisively rejected. They spoke of 319 approved telephone surveillance, but they did not mention the dark number. You know that you can buy any telephon protocol at any private detective around 20 000 s. You will not agree that your executive officials will not make use of the technical possibility even if there is no judicial approval. To do this, normal telephon monitoring is much too simple technically. Let's turn to the GSM phone, Minister of State. They say that the value card telephone is a problem in the context of the addiction investigation. Your ladies and gentlemen in the ministry should make themselves technically familiar with the value-card phones and check whether a value-card phone and another GSM phone, which also works with a chip, are different in terms of security police. Both are small, easily transportable chips. On one hand, you may believe that you can identify the name, on the other hand, the purchase is anonymous from the outset. This is just like the telephonic cell, Minister of State. I hope you don't intend to have telephon cells delivered in this country, because it is known that there can be telephoned by a coin or using a telephonic value card, and the "unfortunately" anonymous. I understand that Mr Sika is in pain. But this has been common in this country for years and days – it is certainly also a police problem, I admit. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] In spite of this, I hope you won't go that far. From now on, let them install a device into each telephone cell, allowing all conversations to be cut. [[Abg. Rosenstingl: Video cameras!]] This is what you are demanding now in the field of GSM telephony. They demand that the operator companies – Telekom, max.mobil and as they are all called – put devices in the facilities that allow risks from private and semi-public institutions at all. They say these would only be useful if this was done in judicial order. – You won’t need the court order at all. This will be technically so simple that your ladies and gentlemen will not need the judicial order at all, because they will simply make technical use of it. Don't tell me that if a fender believes that he is in danger in a delay, he takes the complicated path to the legal protection officer! He certainly thinks he doesn't leave any traces anyway when he listens, and he will do the same. This vulnerability is not from the table. Remember the entry into the Schengen computer. It was an agent who was bought, however. There are, as it were, systems where there is an invitation to approach the employees who work in the security executive at the end of the front, where the feeding ground is laid for the opportunity to buy people. Now I am not saying that this is the normal case with the executives, but it is enough one, two, three such cases. You know that no system is better than the weakest link in the chain. You know that very well. They create human interfaces for organised crime. I can't understand. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Federal Minister! They refer to the exemplary data protection legislation in Austria. They have apparently not been informed of the latest discussions in the Data Protection Council, where a new, modern data protection law is being reached and where it has been shown that we are by no means up-to-date with regard to data protection. The same officials are responsible for the complaints, for the development of the legal system and for the advice of experts by bringing together personal data in the context of the management of data protection. Everything in one hand, because we don't even make the money available to build up the necessary personnel resources there so that this can be separated and escaped. Against this background, instruments of hearing as they are now planned are noise attack and grid attack, very, very sharp scalps in the hands, not by surgeons, but by trained nurses. That's bad. The profession of the nurse is an honorable profession, but he should not be allowed to operate, but only the surgeon should operate. If you are so easily creating instruments and out of hand, Minister of State, then that is what you have said, although it is nice to listen to as a Sunday speech, but unfortunately not in its substance.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e2652	The next speaker was Mr Jarolim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e2673	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This present hour is a little problematic for me, insofar as Mr Heide Schmidt said in the introduction to her speech that she would also like to point to technical developments that are alarming and, moreover, also to the technical developments which she has seen in the future, but which have given her the impression here in the debate that due to the legal situation, that is, because of the legal regulations, the circumstances that are emerging here are not being met. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: We do not want to talk about it afterwards, but in advance!]] I think it is necessary, in a debate as highly sensitive as that on the question of data protection, to explain to the public what has actually happened, what opportunities of danger exist and what one can do about it. I think it is certain that data protection as a fundamental right is one of the most sensitive materials. [[Abg. Dr Schmidt: I'm saying that!]] It is also the same – and I fully agree with you – that the quality of a democracy is measured by the handling of data, i.e. data protection. That's not a question at all. However, I do not think it is fairer to say that there is the possibility of abuse, so it would be the responsibility of the Minister of the Interior alone, so more or less of the abuse, which has been proven to be in the private sector in particular, would be something the government has to represent. I think you should also take note of and accept what the Federal Minister said earlier. [[Other calls of the Abg. Dr. Schmidt.]] It is well known, Mrs Colleague, that data abuse is taking place in the private sector, and that is what it is to be done to combat. This is not an issue at all, and on this point You certainly always have social democracy on your side. There must be no data abuse and instruments must be established to prevent them. I am entirely of your opinion, if you say that you have to ensure that efficient surveillance is carried out in the Army News Office – that is not a question – the point is only the following: What we have discussed and decided so far – in particular in the matter of grid attack and noise attack – is already taking into account. I can remember that we have discussed the question of the legal protection officer, who is really supposed to be a strong criterion. In this debate there were smears such as: this institution is inefficient, it would be just a sham and so on. I think we really have to take up the points and ask where there are dangers. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: The danger is in abuse, you know that very well!]] On the other hand, however, it is also necessary to deal realistically with this. And the former discussion about whether, for example, the legal protection officer was only a schina argument or not was certainly not very helpful in the sense of data protection and its necessary development. This is also true in the current debate. We should not pretend that there has been the possibility of telephonic surveillance in the criminal procedure for a long time. The fact is that technology, as you have correctly explained, is developing in a very fast way and that this instrument also needs to be translated into technical development. Therefore, it is also legitimate to ask whether, if stationary telephone systems can be monitored at present, the development is increasingly heading towards portable devices, under the same conditions as currently provided for in the stationary network, the GSM mobile network may also be monitored. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: But only under the same conditions!]] And I say that is comparable, that is appropriate, and therefore there should also be appropriate possibilities here, even with the help of massive legal protection, only with judicial approval. Mrs. Colleague! If you rightly say that there will always be the possibility of misuse of data for private use, then you have to distinguish what is officially possible on the one hand and what we put into control on instruments of executives – which does not provide for the possibility of abuse and is very prohibitive against such abuse – and what possibilities of abuse there are on the other hand in spite of the law in the private field and how to prevent it. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Also for the executive!]] I think it is very simple to differentiate and say that it is necessary to prevent abuse and to make sure that data protection is maintained. But I do not think it is permissible to criticise indiscriminately the existing regulation and to attack it with the reference to private abuse which is in no way related to this regulation. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e2773	The next speaker is Mrs Fekter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e2794	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear listeners, you are so numerous today! It is undisputed that the growing technological development seems to be almost limitless the means of monitoring, as Mrs Schmidt has pointed out. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: That's it alone!]] And, in particular, the density of the networks that we already know, the diversity and the possible linkage of data and their misuse must, of course, make us sensitive. That is what I am right about Mrs Schmidt. It is undisputed that abuse, corruption and offences must be combated in connection with the use of data. That's what's going on here in this House of Consens. The question is only, with what means, and, Mrs Schmidt, that is exactly where we differ. We want to give the executive the best possible means, those at the latest technological level. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: For the best possible abuse!]] However, we do not explore the need, of course, to take into account the legal interest in data protection. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Kiermaier.]] It is precisely the noise attack and the law on modern investigation methods that have shown just how sensitive we are here in this field of tension, how high we have also used the legal protection of the private sphere and how many control mechanisms we have installed in order to prevent abuse as much as possible. I am not an illusionist, I know he can take place because there will always be criminals, but it must be our goal to expose these criminals and also to punish them accordingly. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Kiermaier.]] On this subject, Mrs Schmidt, I do not see the problem in the legal cases, where we have a dense network of controls. Instead, I see the problem with all the networks that we have not regulated by law. This concerns, for example, the field of electronics in passenger cars, with which one may very well be able to create motion profiles. These are further company data, which can very probably be used abusively. You mentioned the credit cards. But you also mentioned that, of course, in the telephone sector, very, very, very much is happening. I therefore accept that we must consider how we can further develop data protection with regard to modern methods. We must take this into account when we – well meant – install new networks. As an example, I would like to mention the desire to equip all televisions with a chip to be able to select broadcasts of violence. This too is something, which in retrospect could also be used again with this chip. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Who's to select?]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Listen to me, Mrs. Colleague!]] [[Abg. Dr Schmidt: What does that mean? Do you want to check who's watching what?]] Mrs Schmidt! If You are not at the last stage of the debate, I am happy to give you a private body afterwards and tell you what is meant. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mrs Schmidt! I'm annoyed by a little bit Your permanent display with the pointing finger, your constant indication to offer without any solutions. It is a refusal of reality to believe that only the lifting of the index finger of the data flow could be stopped. We take it seriously, it is our duty to take into account the fundamental right of data protection, but it is also our task to protect the Austrian population from organised crime and other criminals. This protection has not at all been mentioned in your statements. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: In Lower Austria she got the receipt!]] We are also somewhat worth the safety needs of the Austrians, and we therefore accept that the executive will receive the most modern methods of investigation under legal conditions. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: What about the Austrian women?]] [[Abg. Dr. Kier: That the Austrians didn't?]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e2960	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Ofner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e2981	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The effective fight against organised crime – everyone wants it. But as it is in practice, I can tell you a little bit. A great criminal proceedings – I have defended – the judge – it always means that it is all about judicial order – the competent criminal department gives the order to determine subsequently which telephonic contacts it has been given from a certain connection in six weeks he calls; but only telephonic contacts with certain other connections, so that innocent people cannot come to the malaise. It is presented by the Criminal Department that there is a complete extract of all telephone calls that have taken place for almost a year. Addressing why these were not six weeks, but several months, the senior criminal officer, who was sitting there, says: I don't know! And to add that not only those connections that the court approved and affected the possible suspects have been stopped or detected retroactively, but also all the others, he said: I can explain that already: Telekom said it's no different. We can only print everything or nothing. On the idea that perhaps it could be possible to stop Deutsche Telekom from selecting from the lists only that which concerns certain connections, the idea that the criminal officials could have sat down and written out for themselves what the court has approved, on the idea that, if it really is not possible to comply with the judicial order, let it remain, or at least ask again, because the rule of law should also be worth a bit, because the legal culture – if one really knows a little bit with it – should also be something worth it no one has come to! That's what I'm saying to everyone who thinks: If the judges order something, everything is fine, and then everything can only happen as they believe it. I do not want to deal with the judges at all, the five minutes are not enough, but I have, I believe, explained to you what happens in the context of such orders or beyond them far beyond what can happen to each of us one day. Someone – I think it was the Federal Minister – has stated in his speech that there must always be sufficient suspicion. I can recall – and some of those present at the time – that there was a hearing here in the budget room in connection with the introduction of the noise attack and the grid arrest, in which the relevant exponents of the rule of law of Austria took part, including an official representative of the public prosecutor's office. I could call it the name, but he's very sweet, and I don't want to call him. Whoever was there knows his name. He said: What do we always talk about an urgent suspicion of crime? We also practice telephonic listening in such a way that by listening we want to achieve the urgent suspicion of crime! – He literally said that, I wrote it. This is not the case. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt nodds.]] That is, not if the serious suspicion of crime is given, is stopped, but one stops once, because perhaps one succeeds in creating the urgent suspicion of crime, and if not, then one has had bad luck. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: And then you use it!]] It was a representative – otherwise a member of your party – who is the prosecutor’s officer in high office, who has explained this: [[towards Federal Minister Mag. Loop]] What do you really want with the suspicion of deed, we can only do it by listening! You just have to know that. You can confess to that. You can say: You're all right! We'll listen to everyone. Some guy's gonna be suspicious if we're lucky. If not, we'll stop tomorrow. But to pretend as if the urgent suspicion of action was a condition, that is blue-eyeed to avoid using harder expressions. That's what we're doing in the so-called big noise attack. I can recall how people were put under pressure here in the house and before in the committee deliberations by saying that we could lose something of our model school image, because everywhere abroad it was going and was going, and the Germans were looking at the "cameraden Schnürschuh", on the Austrian, because he is so tender and he wants to allow exceptions that the legal culture demands. And with just a few exceptions, the house agreed to the big noise attack. However, not the liberals, not three representatives of the ÖVP, not others from the opposition area, but everyone else. And what's now? – Afterwards, it turns out that the Germans created the exceptions that were kept from us, although the Germans at the time were the rod in the window, which is why they said: Let's not blame! We have to do that, because the Germans have had it for a long time. - Nothing they've had! They have rejected it, because there the rule of law still applies a little more than with us, and the legal culture is held high.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e3025	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e3046	Dobro jutro, poštovane lady i gospodo! Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) "Operating on the basis of the rule of law" – that is the maximum, these are the words that the Federal Minister has chosen in his statements regarding the accusations and concerns of Mr Schmidt regarding the data protection situation primarily in connection with the noise attack in Austria, in order to define his view of things. "operating on the basis of the rule of law." – Mr Federal Minister, not to be You as Minister of the Interior here say that you operate on the basis of the rule of law. It would be rather grotesque to imagine that you are not operating on the basis of the rule of law. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What is the essence of this statement? – The core of this statement is – so I interpret the discussion that we had for a three-quarters of a year in connection with the introduction of the so-called big noise attack in Austria – that operating on the basis of the rule of law is nothing that is dangerous, nothing that limits anyone. It's just the question: How is this rule of law designed? Where is this rule of law restricted? Where will citizens be circumcised in their right hand? – Everything operating on the basis of the rule of law. If we misinterpret the rule of law, then, ladies and gentlemen, it becomes blatant, then it is blatant, and in this situation we are now. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] It is about the rights of the citizens of Austria, which are restricted, in particular with regard to their most intimate sphere, to personal data collected, to telephonic surveillance carried out, it is about the rights that are restricted in connection with the major noise attack, which in a few months has every legal basis – to remain with the words of the Federal Minister. All these rights are massively restricted. Ladies and gentlemen! That's the situation we're in today. And if the chief guardian of the security of the individual citizen and of the individual citizen of Austria says that these measures do not present a danger – that he literally said 10 minutes ago – for an innocent citizen to come into this network of security equipment, then I can only laugh. Federal Minister! I do not know whether you know the complaints of citizens, take them seriously If you do, you would not be able to make the statement here in Parliament that there is no danger of getting into the net – you used the word "netz", not we, nor Mrs Schmidt, if I remember correctly – into the traps of the security authorities. We have listed numerous cases – not the Greens, but the Public – in the ORF discussions were organised on how citizens would be innocent in this network and how there would be no compensation for what was done to them, especially in terms of psychological suffering, but also in terms of financial damage, if they were caught or transferred to the safety authorities' network. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I am very surprised that Mr Jarolim spoke in his first speech as a new Judge of the Socialist Group on the restriction of civil rights, that he is not speaking in the same way as any of his predecessors as spokespersons – and not Dr Fuhrmann. [[Abg. Edler: That's an accompaniment!]] That's something I really think is remarkable. [[Abg. Leikam: You're talking about crime! Do you want more crime in the country?]] But, ladies and gentlemen, last but not least, this has nothing to do with the Federal Minister, in order to illustrate to you how it really is about privacy and citizens' rights in Austria. If you want a health certificate in Austria and go to your employer, then the local health phone – in that case the Upper Austrian regional health insurance fund – forces the worker to ask the employee what the specialist is for. Profiles are recorded about the issue of health certificates, and they mean that it all sounds so harmless. [[Abg. Head: This is also harmless!]] It all sounds so harmless, you only mention the specialist. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's absolutely harmless!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I wonder, Where are we going if this procedure continues?
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e3134	Please put to the conclusion, Mrs Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e3155	This, Mr President, is something that seems so harmless, but the Orwellian surveillance state is already being implemented into reality in an area that has nothing to do with the police, but where human health is concerned. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: They have a peril!]] And that's what we should deal with.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e3207	Mr Magistrate has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Barmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e3229	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Fekter has offered a private body. Unfortunately, I have to say to her that I do not want to take a private vote with her, because I really do not care about the positive impact of inquisitorial methods in the Austrian rule of law. But this is the only thing that can be learned from Mrs Fekter. It shows how to control the most modern means in this area, but when it comes to democratic control in this House, it is still in Metternich times. For democratic control in this House, such as military intelligence services, the state police, is something that cannot be done by Mrs Fekter. And that is exactly the misunderstanding that must be shown here on the side of the ÖVP and that is as blatantly clear as you are in fact standing on the rule of law. What we are talking about is the monitoring of citizens, you want to block the most modern means, where fundamental democratic control mechanisms are concerned. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] This is an understanding which, of course, we in this House call for the struggle, ladies and gentlemen, but we are still doing so, as has already been said by the Federal Minister in the past. We do not assume that the Minister of State, in fact, wants to talk not only to the honourable Member Höchtl, but to monitor everyone. [[the honourable Member is speaking to Federal Minister Mag, who is sitting on the Government Bank. Schlögl, but now return to his place]] No, he doesn't want to. But it is true, ladies and gentlemen, that this is not just a matter of data protection, but it is both in the state of affairs. Area as well as in the area of private companies to protect the privacy of individual people. And the protection of privacy is no longer guaranteed in Austria, which is why it is no longer guaranteed, because one has also introduced and wants to use the major noise attack from the state. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Jarolim has to say that not only can we say: We operate only on the basis of the rule of law. Don't worry! It's only against the organized crime and no one else! – But I am surprised to read in this book that the SPÖ as a parliamentary club has an online access to the central computer of social security in Austria. [[The speaker keeps a book up to date]] That's what I'm asking myself: What does the SPÖ as a parliament club need online access to the central computer of social security funds? Mr Sallmutter, of course, spoke and said: No, please, that's not true, they don't have any online access at all. They can only read a part of this data anyway. – That must not be true! It must not be true that one explains as a dementi: Don't worry! They can't retrieve, edit and use data, they can only read it, they can only access and read it on the screen. Now I should like to know, Mr Wabl: Do the Greens have an online access so they can read a part? [[Abg. Wabl: Yes, of course!]] So if you say yes, of course, that's obviously something that's just spread in the left half of the empire. Or how? I don't think so. [[Federal Minister Mag. Schlögl: Now I know our unmistakable place! It's the Wabl!]] It is true that Mr Wabl is not the unmistakable body, but that he obviously wants to enter, just like the Liberals, into an area in which privacy, Mr Bundesminister, is obviously at risk. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] I would ask you to recall the discussion about the big noise attack. That's what the government groups said: No, there is no experience with the big noise attack – it was also from the police; it was also Mr Sika who said that – so we cannot inform Parliament and, for example, the Ministry of Justice about how often this will be applied and and and how. It was interesting that, after the whole debate had ended, after everything had been decided, it came out that in the area of the U-hooklings, of course, the talks between the defenders and the defendants had been stopped. The Ministry of Justice has, of course, been very angry about this, ladies and gentlemen, because it was first said that it was not done, and then it came out, it will be very well done. There were functionaries of the AUF in Leoben – that is to say, the Freely Related Staff Representative – who made a big noise attack. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lukesch.]] [[Federal Minister Mag. Schlögl: You didn't do it!]] Mr. Federal Minister, he has not been made because it was so diletantic. It is true that one could not operate the video camera and that it only got out of it. But I wonder, What to do You're against these inside offenders? What are the consequences for people from the police who break laws? [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] This is not the rule, but it happens, and then one has to realize that, although it happens, there are in fact no disciplinary consequences. And that is the terrifying thing. It must not be the case that the citizens of this country are exposed to the great noise attack, but that they are then celebrated in any Commissioners in Vienna, and there are no consequences from all over the world. And there's no one to...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e3322	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e3337	And there should not be anyone's concern that privacy in this country is already undermined by what this government has done to an extent that is no longer to be accepted.- Oh, my God! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e3367	Next, Mr Kiermaier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e3389	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! If one follows the course of the debate, one should believe that the data hunters are among us, and anyone else than the executive is the one who organizes it and the glass surveillance state has long since broken out. [[Abg. Wabl: That's right!]] [[Abg. Wabl: That's right! That's exactly how you see it!]] I think we should leave the church in the village and look at this subject more soberly than this happens. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: No, watch, Mr. Kiermaier!]] Of course, it is true that there is a level – this is already true today, the Federal Minister has already said – and at this level, for example, the warehouses, the companies, the address dealers – the latter very much – represent a great risk. It is not true, however, that the Director-General for Public Security is full of GSM phones and that these word scanners, as has already been pointed out today, are going on and on. On the contrary! Only in very special exceptional cases – mainly in the addiction area – are they simply necessary. You just have to apply them if you want to succeed. With the judicial order that has already been doubted – I already admit, neither judges nor prosecutors are the dear God, both of course there are also misjudgments, as they exist everywhere in people – a line that can be accepted, I believe. In addition: Neither the Telekom nor other private companies are allowed to sniff around in their equipment, unless a corresponding judicial basis is created. [[Abg. Dr Schmidt: But you want to force them to do so! That's why it's all right!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! With regard to the noise attack and the construction of this separate monitoring unit, one must also say that this is a small circle, a very small circle of selected people. It is not true that simply on every army post or on every police commission the large laundering station should be built. As far as the value-card telephone is concerned, the Director-General for Public Security has been told that he is in favour of a total ban on these devices, which is not at all true. But unfortunately, he is right and it is true that the international criminal syndicates and drug bosses of this particular technique are very happy to serve. This must be prevented as far as possible. Our executive has no sick curiosity and does not want to be involved in any privacy – as it has already been said today. You can't put that under our cops and gendarmen. It is also true that every official risks a lot if one can prove that he has committed an abuse of office. That, I think, will make everyone think well and not do it. But if the increasingly difficult activity is to be carried out for the benefit of the citizen, then we must accept the high priority of security. I am firmly convinced that, starting from the Federal Minister of State to the Director-General for Public Security, up to the officials concerned, this will be a sensitive matter and will certainly bring about some of the secret protection regulations already addressed by the Federal Minister. The number of 319 telephone monitors also makes clear what quantity it is actually about. As far as the legal basis is concerned, you can believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we Socialists in particular are more than sensitive in this respect because we know what a police state would mean. And that we just don't want one, you can believe me. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion: I am firmly convinced that the government coalition and the executive will be very careful and very careful to deal with these instruments – for the benefit of the citizen. Now a small interlocutory remark to Mr Dr Kier, whom I very much appreciate and whose speeches I am always following very closely: The comparison with the nurse today was not good. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That was the untruth now, because no one can track the Kier's speeches because he speaks fifteen times and more on the day!]] - Yeah, all right. But those I hear I like, I have to admit that and say it out of fairness. But the comparison with the caregiver who takes the skeletal was not correct in my opinion, because the officials in the debate are well trained, top officials, and I do not want to support that comparison. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e3485	The next speaker is Mr Kiss. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e3507	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs Schmidt! Of course, you can have very high intentions, if you're dealing with something, yet today you – I don't think you're doing anything – have overemphasized, just like in the whole discussion, when it came to the introduction of modern methods of investigation. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: You do not even have that, Mr Deputies!]] You are drawing – I quote two of your words – a "horror scenario" and you are talking about, among other things, that this would be aimed at the "mark of the rule of law" if you assessed the data protection in Austria today. – I can Not only do you not understand your judgment, but I come to a very different judgment, and I would also like to argue, Mrs Schmidt. Trust me! Mrs Schmidt! If I were particularly evil now, I'd say, on 19th. April are the Federal Presidential elections, and you are now trying to find a quick way to get to the television in order to get a position. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: A whole new topic!]] This Federal Presidential election will then also bring you the corresponding result, as it was last Sunday. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stoisits.]] I'm sure you'll have a smooth run there too. Believe me! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I liked what your colleague Moser said when he was asked about the outcome of the Lower Austrian country elections. That doesn't belong here now, but I quote Hans Helmut Moser. He said that in Lower Austria he had to do with your positions, Mrs. Schmidt, which you took, all your hands and feet full. Its reasons are as follows: They argue for the poisons, for the homosexuals and against crucifixes. – The population does not understand that. Also argue in this matter concerning data protection They clearly oppose the interests of the population. Believe me! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] They wanted to put it like that now, to become Patrona Austriae. You won't. I almost think you want to become patron saint of organized crime, Mrs Schmidt! Trust me! That's how you argued here. If you say that the executive should not have a level playing field, that is, only the criminals, the serious criminals should be able to enjoy the protection of the rule of law, then I must tell you that we do not find ourselves, Mrs Schmidt. That's where you made it. You've drawn that horror scenario you've been talking about. Believe me! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We, and Mr Fekter, have already deposited the position of the ÖVP, the ÖVP, have always gone the way in the matter of modern investigation methods, that we have said: Protection of citizens from crime, from serious crime, in accordance with the principles of the rule of law. The relevant measures are included in the law. If, in three months' time, this new group exercises the whole problem of daily reality with the possibilities that the legislator has created, then I am convinced that we are going the right way. You have a comfort: You can still shout so loud, you can still sketch your scenarios, the population won't understand it. Perhaps this is really too hard and, as colleague Peter said, too little at heart and too little at heart. This is truly not a matter for you to point out, because you do not take into account, in particular, what is legal certainty, which, as the Minister has said, helps to break through our legislation. I am convinced that we are giving the executive the right options with the new methods. But the ÖVP is also sensitive to the problem. We are aware of the fact that telephone calls with value cards, such as Maria Fekter and Director-General Sika, can be examined in a European context. We are aware that, of course, movement profiles of hands must also be considered in a sensitive way, as is our intention. But we believe that there is already an institution to do so. We have the Data Protection Council. Let's do it! Let's consider what options there are. Who wants to explore all the possibilities with a Ho-ruck party when it comes to combating organised crime, and perhaps some who are an ordinary citizen could come under the wheels? - We don't want that either. Here we meet, that's consensus, that's the handshake. If there are problems, for example, in the fight against organised crime, and there are opportunities for telecommunications, there is also the Data Protection Council which deals with this matter in a very careful, sensitive way. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] For this we are, for that is the ÖVP!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e3620	Mrs Povysil. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e3641	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Firstly, I would like to begin by welcoming all the Members who have not yet resided in Parliament, especially if they have turned their hands on. We could say exactly, because these handets work like arrow transmitters, and at any time determine where in the urban area they are at the moment, even up to a distance of 20 to 30 meters. Ladies and gentlemen! Whether mobile phone, phone, call response, fax, or keyboard, bank card, credit card, PC, Internet, GPS – everything is audible. The real danger, however, is in the connection of the individual data, the connection of these individual data results in the "glass people". All in all, our data protection law is as dim as Swiss cheese – too many regulations, too many laws, which are partly contradictory, especially in the medical field, and contradict each other. Protection for citizens can only be as good as the implementation and control of these laws, and these possibilities are simply conditional. A highly sensitive area is the handling of health data. In many large hospitals there already exists a so-called KIS, a hospital information system, a database with large computers, files and operating systems. In digital hospitals, all communication is electronic. Doctors, laboratories and other hospitals send the health data on the journey via the health data highway. It can also be placed between the individual hospitals ISDN lines from university clinics to smaller hospitals and connected to them, so that I can be sent an X-ray image at any time to which I can comment so that remote diagnostics, video conferences or remote operations are possible. Effective protection in such open systems are not passwords, but this protection is only possible with the help of cryptographic, i.e. encryption methods. However, the administrative sector is far more problematic, ladies and gentlemen. For example, if there is a data exchange between doctors and hospitals or between doctors and social security funds, if findings are passed on via fax or e-mail, they are accessible to everyone. Here, electronic data networking, i.e. the networking of the entire health system, is the only way to secure data transmission. Today, the book "In the Visier of the data hunters" by Gerald Reischl was quoted. This Gerald Reischl takes over once again the main association of social security funds. 60 million data sets are stored in the memory of social security funds, in the computer. And not only have financial and judicial access to it, but you hear and marvel! – also the SPÖ Parliamentary Club, also the law firm in Taborstraße, also a certain Dr. Peter Schütz – Mr. Reischl says you have to disprove it – also the Economic Union in Vienna, also an EDV-GesmbH and also the Post and Telekom in Vienna. These different organisations, such as the parliamentary club, are said to have their own access rights. - It's in here! Mr Reischl finally took his information somewhere. There are different access permissions. However, if you now know that in this computer of social security, there is a data analysis of all prescribed medications, you must also be aware that the path from the social security number to the prescription, to the medicine, to the name of the patient and also to the disease of the patient in God is not yet accessible to anyone who is only somewhat familiar with this system. Ladies and gentlemen! The best data protection – that must be clear to all of us, that is at last an honest indication of this problem – would be the prevention of data, but then of course we would have much less information. The second possibility is a clear, practicable, controllable data protection system, but it must also have consequences in the event of abuse – these consequences are lacking here. Or you do it as in Sweden and you say you have the public principle. That is, everyone in the administrative sector knows exactly what they are doing. – But all experts agree on one thing, ladies and gentlemen: Currently in Austria the data protection is under the dog!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e3693	Mr Arbitrator has reported on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e3714	Mr President. My group has made a statement for an actual correction, but it has been rejected on the basis of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, although it has already been dealt with differently in this House. The reason for this was that Mr Barmüller had a claim that we had already put right, which was therefore denied and challenged, namely that an online access of the SPÖ club to the social security computer existed, here again and again, with reference to a book and thus, under the protection of immunity, presented here again.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e3735	Member of the Arbitrator! If the Rules of Procedure expressly do not provide for an actual correction – according to Article 97a of the last sentence, an actual correction is not possible – then I do not want to reintroduce a prejudice now that we are reporting on the Rules of Procedure, protesting that there is no actual correction and putting it in place. I cannot accept this, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e3757	Mr President. I have to take note of this and ask you: What is the possibility, according to the Rules of Procedure, for my group to resist this abuse by Mr Barmüller?
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e3781	Deputies! I am at your disposal on this issue for a discussion, but I have the Rules of Procedure to deal with them properly. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: To the Rules of Procedure!]] I call Mr Wabl.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e3811	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! What Mr Kiss has offered here was remarkable. First of all, he has brought down applicants for this current hour in a way that is nevertheless significant to the security spokesperson of the ÖVP. He has found here that a member of this House is for the criminals who are poisons and in danger of becoming patrons of the serious criminals. [[Abg. Kiss: I quoted Moser! I quoted Hans Helmut Moser!]] Mr Kiss! Even if Mrs Schmidt has also chosen the subject for this current hour in the context of the presidential elections, I must say that I am still grateful for it. She has at least a clear attitude to this question – unlike your candidate, Klestil. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Why did your brother run a grid search in the Rennbahnweg settlement?]] Ladies and gentlemen! This game here in this House in connection with the noise attack and with the grid finding that here are the good people who want to use everything against the serious criminals, and there the disabled, the so-called dreamers, the liberals and the greens, the free-thinkers and possibly Freemasons, do not go on. Minister! You can, of course, stress here – and I am taking this from you – that you want good equipment for the police, that you want good laws for the police and for the security executive, and you should also get all of this. But there are limits in a rule of law where the private person will be circumcised in his right hand, and these limits are not to be exceeded, and you will overlook that in this discussion. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am very grateful for the comments made by Mr Ofner. I am very rarely in agreement with Mr Ofner, but he speaks of the practice of dealing with this delicate issue. I say the following to you: I hope in this whole data story that the development is so rapid that the flood of data will no longer be manageable at all and you will no longer be able to deal with your data flow, with your information at all, Mr Minister of the Interior, and that, if you need it, you will no longer be able to monitor every individual citizen. But what concerns me, ladies and gentlemen, is that the very simple possibilities the security executive has are already being used by the state police against the citizen and against the citizen. Let me give you an example. I was in Carinthia last Friday at a demonstration. It has been said that, in connection with the canalization of their villages, citizens are opposed to the fact that they are forced to do things that are unecologically and uneconomically in the face of a wise instrument of promoting, promoting the environment for canal construction and treatment facilities. On the other hand, people defend themselves there. And what happens now? How does our rule of law react, ladies and gentlemen? – A demonstration was announced there, a road should be blocked for three hours. Of course, the executive must go, that is true, completely correct. It was also sufficient executive there. But, ladies and gentlemen, what does this have to do with serious crime, Mr Kiss, if there are people there from the Bürger Initiative in Bleiburg, if there is the citizens' initiative from Feistritz, if there the citizens' initiative from Globasnitz, if the Committee of the host and accommodation companies in Lower Carinthia, if the citizens' initiative and representation for lifts, economy, sports and leisure from rowings demonstrate against the large canal and for decentralized waste water disposal? Ladies and gentlemen! What does the state police have to do there? – The gentlemen of the State Police were there and recorded everything. Now I ask you: What protection is being carried out there? Who's being protected? Are these the simple citizens who are protected from serious crime? – Already there are assaults, Mr Kiss! You don't need to play the saviour of security and order again and fight for human rights. Citizens' rights are being cut down for a long time – with the simple possibilities that the state police already have. This is our fear, ladies and gentlemen. This is our fear that, with the help of new laws, you will legitimize what the police and the executive have been doing illegally for a long time. And on the other hand, Mr Kiss, we will defend ourselves. There you can say a hundred times that you are the patron saint for the simple citizens! If such things happen, I know you're on the wrong side!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e3878	Mr Barmüller spoke on business. But I'm making it very clear: Same right for everyone! I shall not now allow a personal response to an actual correction in the form of a Rules of Procedure. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e3903	Mr President. I do not intend to bow to the Rules of Procedure, as others have done before me, but I just want to know what possibilities I have as a Member of Parliament I am opposed to such abuse, as I believe it has been done by Mr Schieder, and what opportunities you would recommend.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e3927	Deputies! I have said to Mr Schieder that I am at his disposal. That's true for you, too. I'll invite you to a conversation. I declare the current hour to be over and thank the Federal Minister. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e3951	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e4154	The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, in accordance with § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure requested urgent consideration of the written question 3956/J by Mr Gaugg to Mr Bundeskanzler on the German Federal Government's policy on employment and teaching places. For the purposes of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, the request for urgent procedure shall be put to the vote at 3 p.m. Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e4178	I would also like to say that Mr Wabl has asked the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on Amendment 549/A (E) concerning the refusal of confidence to the Federal Minister for Defence of the State to a period of up to 14 months. ==References== In this context, there is a duly justified desire to hold a short debate on Mr Wabl's request for a deadline. Since it has just been announced that there is a urgent request for today's sitting, the short debate on the Wabl request will take place following the debate on the urgent question. The vote on the request for a deadline will take place after the end of the debate. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e4207	I have the proposal to sum up the debate on points 2 and 3 of the agenda. Is there any objection? - That's not the case. We shall then proceed in this way, and I will go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e4232	It was discussed at the Presidential Conference and consensus was reached on the following procedure: A 7 hour day block speaking time is to be set so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ 105 minutes, ÖVP 98 minutes, Freedom 91 minutes, Liberal Forum and Greens per 63 minutes. That is what the House has to say, and I am asking whether there are objections to this proposal. - That's not the case. Then it's so decided. 1. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' Activity Report (III-106 of Supplements) on the 1996 Administrative Year (1106 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e4262	We'll get to the 1st. Agenda item. There is no need for oral reporting. That's what I'm going into. First speaker is Mrs Applebeck. I was told that I could set the speaking time for 10 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e4289	Mr President of Parliament! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Federal Minister! High house! Thank you to the Bureau – this Court of Auditors report is finally given the priority it has given to it. Otherwise, these reports will always be dealt with under "remotely running". Ladies and gentlemen in the House! The Court of Auditors, together with its officials, lists errors such as waste of money from the Federal Government in each report. I would like to thank you, on behalf of my group, for this tireless and unthankful work, but also for the fact that the Court of Auditors have not yet given up their courage, because conclusions on improvements do not draw this House from the work of the Court of Auditors. On the contrary: The political authorities responsible for the misdemeanors, these wastes of money, evade their responsibilities by not being allowed to be loaded as persons providing information. Only ignorant officials – according to the motto: see nothing, hear nothing and speak nothing at all – can be invited to the Court of Auditors Committee – with the approval of SPÖ and ÖVP. Information persons who are not sure whether they are on the party line are rejected. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Headmaster.]] The laden are often so ignorant that they do not even know who was politically responsible, or they may not know. This, in turn, is not for these politicians, but rather for them to have their gags in vain. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Example: Federal Road Administration agenda of the state of Styria. The road construction in the Styria looks as follows: About 758.7 million schillings were the order value, 28.7 million schillings were flawed, i.e. too much paid, because the masses and the performance reserves were not right, because public authorities had not even opened up in the tendering procedure, because public authorities had not been observed at all – I just want to know what would happen to a private person if he did not comply with an authority’s obligation – because attachments were awarded without a tender, construction materials were initially made available free of charge, but then paid. – The unrealisticly low offers were uncritically accepted and then, of course, charged higher. There were faulty calculations, faulty over-examinations, error in calculation – just to mention some shortcomings. These 28.7 million schillings face 4.2 million who have only been deducted by the Court of Auditors' suggestion. In addition, the Styrian government is still making the Court of Auditors and the taxpayer hope for 0.7 million who have not yet been clarified, and for 1.1 million shillings that are contentious. Only the fine distinction in the recovery between "dispute" and "not yet clarified" makes the taxpayer who has to pay all this hope. The fact that 4.2 million and 0.7 million and in the most favourable case still another 1.1 million do not yet result in 28.7 million schilling, which, hopes the Styrian state government, the taxpayer and voters will probably forget until the next election. I am particularly concerned that my Styrian colleagues from ÖVP and SPÖ in the Committee on the Court of Auditors said that they were glad that this report on the Styrian Government had been so positive. – What did you expect, my Ladies and gentlemen? That the Court of Auditors could reveal even more? Were these wastes of money and these misdeeds not enough for you? – At least they made it to me! But I can already understand you, colleagues from ÖVP and SPÖ from Styria. If one sees this state government dealing with taxpayers' money, then one becomes modest and no longer claims. For example, there were 108 000 square meters of land purchased at the Ilz section of the motorway. Several contractors have then taken out gravel, without a contract on how much gravel they are allowed to extract, and without indicating the purpose of use, which is to be done with the gravel taken out. A contractor has simply set up his construction site there without a contract. The gravel was mined up to four meters below the groundwater level, without notice by a responsible of the Styrian state government or the construction supervision. And the renovation work was then paid not by the causer, but by the public. One has not even tried to drive them from the causer! 4.2 million schillings were paid by the taxpayer for this renovation. The property was then resold – according to the officials with a profit of 3.5 million schilling. However, the President of the Court of Auditors does not think so. He said it was a loss in the committee. On the other hand, the officials of the state government said it was a profit because 157 000 cubic metres of gravel were mined. The President of the Court of Auditors took a different view in the Committee. He said it had to be a lot more gravel, about 300,000 cubic meters. And I mean, there are probably 157 000 cubic metres of gravel in motorway construction, and the difference to 300,000 cubic meters of gravel has gotten the "floating". A member of a government party – but outside the committee – said that some of them deserved a golden nose. I can only join him: Private profit, loss in the state. To clarify this, the rulers here in the house have rejected with their mutual ropeship. Our request, which was apparently so good that he was also taken over by Mr. Wabl and sold to the media accordingly, was rejected for clarification by the political leaders, namely the head of state, Dr. Josef Krainerand Mrs. Klasnic, for the purpose of clarifying the accounting committee, according to the motto: If you help me, I'll help you. That's how it always works. But the taxpayer, who finally has to pay all this, has long seen through this, ladies and gentlemen, as the last results of the elections in Graz have shown. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I'm just asking you, ladies and gentlemen here in the house: When will you finally wake up?
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e4380	The next speaker is Mr Brix. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e4401	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! The report by the Court of Auditors on the 1996 management year, which is available today and which is to be discussed, is not only comprehensive. I would like to ask you, Mr President, and your Ladies and gentlemen in the Court of Auditors, on behalf of the Socialist Group, thank you very much for it, because it is a report that says a lot about the work of the companies under examination and thus about the work in our Republic of Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mrs Apfelbeck has expressed criticism in front of me – she is not here – of the fact that she is not invited to the people she is imagining. [[Abg. Wabl: Not only those she imagines!]] – I oppose this, my colleague, Applebeck, colleague Wabl and dear united opposition: We invite those ladies and gentlemen to the committee responsible in this Republic and in the federal states. They're being loaded by us, and they're coming too. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] But what you are imagining, Mrs Apfelbeck, is that we are, as it were, taking part in the box and loading the former responsible ones. But only because you want it, it won't play it because we invite those responsible at the moment. An example from the Steiermark: We invite the responsible for road construction, Landesrat Ressel, and we will not, just because it desires you after the head of state, also load them. Visit her in the country house, she will probably also give you a visit, there you can talk to her! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] You too can present your wishes there, Mr Wabl, but in the Court of Auditors you present your criticism to those responsible who are currently responsible. That's why I think that's... [[Abg. Rosenstingl: The country's main woman was responsible for this period! She was responsible at that time! She was responsible at that time! She's in charge!]] Would you have listened to me, colleague Rosenstingl! I said that we were loading those responsible at the moment and not those who were once responsible for it. That's what it's all about! Blend You are not pears with salt cucumbers, but order that, then you will notice that we are acting properly! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! This Court of Auditors report, of course, also contains critical comments on various issues on its 348 pages. It should also be noted that many of these undertakings have immediately implemented the critical comments and suggestions made by the Court of Auditors during the examination period. In other words, many of the companies examined have used the critical reports in their company. There are reports in which the Court of Auditors has expressed particular criticism. However, there are also companies to which he has given a very good witness, for example the ÖBB, the Vienna port and the ÖIAG. These were positive reports. Of course, the report on the company HTM hurt us. But what would have been the alternative for HTM? – The bankruptcy would have meant that thousands of jobs had been lost. Therefore, the sale in this case was probably the better solution. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Trattner.]] There was also a critical report about the company Wibeba. Mr Trattner! You know, we have been discussing in the Committee for a long time why the company Wibeba has just slid into a big minus and that this company has caused serious losses in 1994 and 1995. But then it became apparent that, so to speak, with a "infusion", with a help from another very powerful company, namely Porr, and by its very good manager, Director General Pöchhacker, who came to the aid of this company in the crucial, difficult times, succeeded in bringing the Wibeba back into black figures. Today, Wibeba has 18 percent equity again, ladies and gentlemen. And today she writes not only black numbers, but is a guarantee for hundreds of jobs and thus for financial security for hundreds of families. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let me say something else, which I think is very important for today's debate: One of the areas examined was the acquisition of the ÖBB. This too is another proof, my colleague, Applebeck, that you are not quite right: You said we didn't load those you wanted. . However, with the agreement of the government parties to which you are hacking, we have unanimously decided that one day the Director-General of the ÖBBB could not come to the Committee on the Court of Auditors' meeting that we would also invite him once more, so that he took part in another meeting of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] According to this Court of Auditors report, which is being discussed this afternoon, the ÖBB has not only improved its image but also created additional apprenticeships. You have, for example, the information from the Director-General – and this is also stated in the report – that you need 30 to 70 apprentices. – But what do the ÖBB do? You're taking in 350 apprentices! The ÖBB ordered 240 double-stock wagons and 657 wagons of the usual design at the Simmering-Graz-Pauker works. But it is not just that, but with this task performance, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen – and I ask you to be really careful here – the ÖBB has managed to increase the Austrian value added from 60 to 65 percent to 92 percent. This is Austrian industrial and labour market policy! We need this on the so sensitive labour market in Austria, where we fight for every single job. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A second point, ladies and gentlemen – and that is what I would like to conclude: The ÖBB has succeeded, for example, in the case of high-speed locomotives, in costing that once made up 70 million schillings now amounting to only 35 million schillings. This, in turn, is a reduction in the sense of saving in this state. What does that mean? – Many businesses take the criticism of the Court of Auditors seriously, work on it, secure jobs – more than ever before – and increase Austrian value added and still save. That's what I call efficient policy!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e4499	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Barmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e4520	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased that Mr Brix is doing the PR work for the ÖBB here, but I cannot spare you a few things, Mr Brix. The Court of Auditors submits very extensive reports, offers many suggestions where one could actually make improvements, but they all fail to see them simply not implemented by this government. In this report alone, there are 129 unfinished suggestions from the Court of Auditors, some of which date back to 1975, some from 1983. This often goes back ten or twenty years, simply refusing to take note of and implement the Court of Auditors' suggestions. Mr Brix! On this point, I am not surprised that the Court of Auditors has now held that dates are no longer agreed that the opposition will not be given the opportunity to take part in the meetings, but you are setting dates just at that time... [[Abg. Brix: But that's not true!]] Well, of course that's true! In connection with the Committee on the End-of-the-Day Course, you simply did not have the opportunity – it was a ten-day shift so that you could take part in the Committee meeting – and the willingness to postpone the discussions so that the opposition – and in particular the Liberals – could be there, but you said: That's all we've got. – You do not want to conclude this committee before the summer, because you are not interested in rapid treatment. I must be surprised that you say that the Styrian Finance Councillor, Mr Ressel, should come to Vienna to talk about this area. [[Abg. Edler: He's in charge!]] But that those persons who were actually responsible for the individual errors mentioned here came from the area of the ÖVP, you can apparently not say that from coalition raison. And that's why you're doing nothing but a show in the Court of Auditors' Committee! You're doing something, but you're not actually doing anything. That's exactly what makes us all so confounded. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Herbs.]] Deputies of herbs! I know you'll talk about it afterwards. But you should do something above all! You're on the government! ÖVP and SPÖ are those groups that can call on the Ministers of the Interior to do something, but they do not! The only thing you do is to rule out the opposition from the meetings of the Committee of the Regions through your appointment agreements, and when it comes to – and I am going to quote it – implementing the individual points, you cannot begin with anything. [[Abg. Edler: That's a premise!]] There are 129 unfinished suggestions! This goes from the BKA with eight suggestions about the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs with six to the Minister for Economic Affairs. And it is interesting, Mr Minister of Economic Affairs, that it has not been possible to adopt a regulation on the implementation of a directive on the general interest in housing in order to define the own resources needs of non-profit associations. This suggestion dates back to 1993. It was the liberals who had already taken up other opportunities in the field of non-profit housing companies in previous Court reports, which – thank God – after persistent operation led to the transfer of 103 million schilling to those construction associations that have unjustly distributed to the federal government. 103 million schilling! In order to achieve this, we had to run up here in the House for over three years, although the Court of Auditors clearly stated that what happened was illegal. But in the way of the budget reforms, it was necessary to transfer funds to the budget somewhere else, and it seems that they did not want to be returned until those criteria which are necessary under the Maastricht Treaty were met. At all corners and ends, money has been scratched together to achieve what you need in the presentation at European level. Now I say the following: If that were just computer tricks, it wouldn't be bad. It is true, however, that in the field of non-profit associations, the tenants have to pay increased rents by these machinations, that no provision is made to ensure that common utility is also truly positive for the people, but that they are deliberately collected and received loans, which are then shifted from the cost to the tenants, while the existing own resources are invested in securities. These, ladies and gentlemen, are examples that are now being mentioned in the Court of Auditors' report, and if we have to run for two years again, so that... [[Abg. Wormitzer: You don't know yourself!]] Mr Wurmitzer! I know that's unpleasant, but true is: As the ÖVP is currently busy in its ranks, it is shy and so shaky it is also represented when it comes to perhaps persuading these things to its coalition partner. That's where you both hold your hand anyway. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] Deputies! I know that in Lower Austria, the Freedom-based Associations have now also established their own housing cooperatives, and they are doing their own business there. The Gratzer serves there as well as the others. That is why, for the liberals, this is no longer an issue either. The liberals are therefore not looking at this area, ladies and gentlemen, because they are now co-cassing themselves. Of course, it will be particularly "lustious", Mr deputies, if one has to note that there are suggestions from the Court of Auditors, such as those found on page 218 of the report, where it is to be read, after all, the implementation of the federal budget law from 1st century onwards. January 1987 – I emphasize: 1987! – make the intended separation between order and execution. So this has been a law since 1987 and has been assembled by the Court of Auditors in the 1991 activity report. However, it is only heard by the Federal Minister for the Interior that this suggestion by the Court of Auditors in Salzburg has been carried out on a trial basis and has been very positive. While it is necessary to extend this system to other federal states, the Federal Minister for the Interior says, but – quote – "implementation is not possible due to the staff restrictions associated with the savings efforts". Now there are suggestions from the Court of Auditors that the laws adopted in 1987 must be complied with; in 1991 there was the first suggestion, but you say: We're sorry. We do our budget in a way that we cannot comply with the laws in Austria. This, Mr Brix, is something that you are defending from the speaker's desk. I didn't hear you say: For God's sake, that must not be! We must make a budget in such a way as to comply with the laws in Austria. – No, you’re just talking about the ÖBB awarding any orders to strengthen value creation in Austria – which is a good thing, but not your merit – but in those areas where you could do something, keep silent. Mr Brix, Member of Parliament, comes out here and says: I don't know, I don't do anything, I don't want to hear about it. . But now I should like to know from you, Mr Brix: When will the SPÖ actually implement the law you passed here in the House in 1987? When to Become I would like to ask you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, to make a statement on this matter. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brix.]] Deputies! There is one more thing, and this concerns the agricultural sector. In this Court of Auditors' activity report on page 268, please refer to where it is made clear that it is at last necessary to simplify and re-regulate the provisions of the Federal Law on the remuneration of teaching and examination activities at universities in order to eliminate the existing difficulties of interpretation and the different enforcement. You know it's about a lot of money. This is also known by Mr Lukesch. However, the communication of the Federal Minister responsible for this area, namely One, states that the desire for simplification will remain such – unfulfilled – because decisive changes not only counter the resistance of the employee, but also the social security sector will become increasingly complicated. That's good! The Court of Auditors says that at last it is necessary to make simplifications in this field of audit activity, and Mr. Federal Minister One says he is sorry, but it is simply not against the employee side, and in addition, the area of social security becomes increasingly complex, so it is not feasible. – These are precisely the bureaucratic regulations that you impose on small and medium-sized enterprises every day, and in which you have never asked whether this can be financed at all. For example, there is also the Workers' Protection Act – which has often been mounted here by our side – which simply represents an immeasurability of bureaucratic requirements for small and medium-sized enterprises and in which you never intervene. But in your area of competence, where you as a political party must have special interest, because it is your minister responsible, you do nothing about this. You're silent. You stand here as a speaker and praise the ÖBB, but otherwise you won't lose a word about having to do anything. Nothing! This is exactly that double morale, Mr Brix, which in Austria all hangs out to the neck. [[Abg. Brix: The OeBB deserves the praise! Do you want to say that this is not an achievement for apprentices to be hired?]] Mr Brix! The apprentices in Austria did not hire you. [[Abg. Brix: Neither do you!]] We do not boast of this either, Mr Brix. As a member of the opposition, I only tell you in what areas you should be working in, but in which case you do not do anything from a party's raison or from the point of view of the coalition partner – because it is simply not acceptable – while you not only make all those in Austria who do not keep themselves informed of punishments, because the legal system is so, but perhaps even replacement sentences. If, for example, it is a matter of obtaining a nature conservation notice in the framework of the Ennsnahe Tresse, you can easily write in this report: Unfortunately, this was not possible for financial reasons. This was discussed several times in the Court of Auditors. Mr Brix does not say anything about this. [[Abg. Wabl: Nothing says he's silent!]] He sits there, listens to everything, is confronted with an objective criticism by the Court of Auditors, which reads: There are no laws here, but he doesn't say anything about it. Mr Brix! When it comes to questioning Mrs Landeshuptmann Klasnic, who now has political responsibility in this context, or former head of state Krainer on this issue, you say: No, we don't want to hear from them. . This is the ambiguity with which you deal with the Court of Auditors' reports. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brix.]] It is true, ladies and gentlemen, that you should not only praise the work of the Court of Auditors, but in particular the suggestions made therein. Do not talk about making a budget that will not allow you to comply with the laws and implement the Court of Auditors' suggestions. Do not argue that you are not supposed to be the ones making the laws in this country! Take this responsibility on your cap! Finally, stop hindering the opposition by skillful manipulation with dates in the Court of Auditors. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e4678	Mr Brix has made a statement on an actual correction. I would ask that the facts to be corrected be compared to the actual situation. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e4702	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Barmüller has said here that I had set an appointment that he could not take part in, and I would have broken practices. - That's not right. I notice: It is true that the chairman of the Subcommittee, Mrs Apfelbeck, kindly invited all the political groups to a meeting on an appointment, on that day the various dates were discussed, but because of the situation - the Budget Committee meeting of the Committee on Budgets - no common date could be found, even through a hospital stay of the chairmen. Then, by all five fractions of the smallest common denominator – which was the said last Thursday – was set as an appointment and so decided. - That's the correct position.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e4738	Mr Barmüller! I read to you § 58 para. 3 to the Rules of Procedure: "An answer to an actual correction is only possible by a Member of Parliament who explains the corrected case in accordance with paragraph 1. 2 in person". I have written the corrected case: Mr Brix noted that all the political groups had been invited to an appointment, et cetera, and that a common solution had been found on Thursday. There is therefore no requirement for a personal response. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: That's the wrong thing!]] I would ask you to speak to your club chairmen because we have been discussed several times in the presidential session, how we handle the subject of personal response. [[Abg. Grandruck: Like a little kid!]] Mr Wurmitzer has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e4783	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Before I comment on the 1996 Court of Auditors' report, I would like to begin by making a few comments on the comments made by previous speakers. Mrs Apfelbeck! You have made the claim here that only ignorant officials would be invited before the committee. – This is a flat-rate judgment, and everyone who judges flat-rate always lies next door. I note that it is very likely that relevant information can be obtained from officials who have been invited if the relevant questions are asked. – The first. Secondly, You also meant that you would be disabled in your work in committee, because information would not be approved. – I can tell you that there has already been a case where nine persons have been invited at the request of the opposition parties and no person has been questioned. You want to criticize such an excessive procedure here? [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Mrs Apfelbeck! They have massively criticized the Styrian Landesstraße administration because no corresponding records would have been made by the contractors in the event of decommissioning. I quote from the Court of Auditors' report on the Karawanken motorway: "The use of materials from Baulos Rosegg by the contractor was only insufficiently monitored by the construction supervision." And here's what it says: "In the case of Baulos Winkl, due to incorrect dimensions of the forest security measures, invoice corrections amounting to a total of 20 million schillings were necessary." I would also like to quote: "In the case of Baulos Winkl, the payment of difficulties in the delivery of conglomerate of the original calculation and the proven explosive difficulties was contradicted." – The difference is 4.2 million schilling. Other quote: "In Baulos Rosegg, the Court of Auditors opposed the award of an award of about 15.5 million schillings for the payment of the money on the occasion of the construction of stone kilns." - Quote. Do you know who the responsible road builders were? – High and highest officials of the Freedom Party. One of them is in the first bank: Dr. Haider was in charge. So if you are already massively criticizing, you should not overlook the beam in your own eye! I would like to tell you that. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] But now to the Court of Auditors report: The Court of Auditors has presented its report. What looks like when looking forward, such as routine work, is carried by a lot of work, work, expertise and a lot of use of the staff of the Court of Auditors. I would therefore like to thank him warmly for this. I know, however, that the greatest thanks to the Court of Auditors cannot be paid off verbally, but that there is the best way of giving thanks by policy if there are significant changes in the critical and disputed area. Only by this will the work of the employees of the Court of Auditors be rewarded. There are such areas. I would like to take one of them, namely the teacher's added services in 1996. The highest indebtedness to the Court of Auditors is that years of criticism do not produce anything and do not cause any changes to the criticised and affected bodies. These are the so-called shopkeepers of politics, and there is also such a one in this report, namely the procurement of the ÖBB. [[Abg. Wabl: Federal Lord!]] ÖBB, Mr. Wabl! I would like to deal with the two areas addressed, and of course as an optimist call the positive first, namely the "multiservices of teachers". A few preliminary remarks. Additional service in the school sector is not overtime. The additional service is necessary for the fulfilment of the requirements of Austrian school laws. I would like to put it the other way around: Without additional services, the school laws in Austria would not be enforceable, because the teaching and supervision of students are bound to fixed times and not variable. There is a big difference to the administrative service. I am convinced that it will not be possible to completely eliminate the added services in the future. But still on the Court's findings. The Court of Auditors has found that multi-services have fallen sharply. I can show the corresponding graphics [[the speaker holds a graphic in height]] From 1994 to 1996 and 1997, Austria had a reduction of around one third, ranging from 1,200 million in 1994 to around 800 million in 1996 and 1997. This is an absolutely positive balance sheet. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Because the minister responded quickly!]] [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] The Court of Auditors reports that the requirements have not yet been met at the time of the examination. I can say that this statement results from the fact that the school year does not correspond to the budget year. In the meantime, however, the target of 400 million schilling per year has been achieved. I do not want to say a warm thank you to Mrs Bundesminister Gehrer and her ministry from this point of view. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is not easy to enforce this reduction, as you all know, because it is also about so-called acquired rights. The objective was achieved by reducing the standardised multi-services, but also by increasing the efficiency of the calculation, by shortening the reporting periods from three days to one day, by reducing hours to a reasonable extent and by taking into account reduced school years in matura classes. ==References== There will be a further reduction on September 1998 because this date will introduce the calculation of weekly hours for teachers. This is a measure in which there is no doubt that there is still resistance from colleagues. The protest is understandable to me, but it is not justified in all cases. In all, the Court of Auditors gives a positive witness in this field, although it also notes that the execution is dependent in some federal states. As a Carinthian, I must not say without pride that the Federal State of Carinthia and the federal state of Tyrol have in this respect also been exemplified as exemplary by the Court of Auditors. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Because there was Jörg Haider Landeshuptmann!]] There are therefore opportunities for improvement everywhere, and these should be used. Secondly, I would also like to deal with the procurement of the Austrian Federal Railways. I am not entirely of the opinion of my colleague, Mr Brix. I am pained by the fact that, in the case of a purchase volume of 18 billion schillings between 1990 and 1995, the Court of Auditors finds that the award was usually carried out without a tender. I believe that this is not acceptable and incompatible with the principles of a decent merchant. The Court of Auditors shall write in its report: "No new development could be delivered on time." – That should not be the case either. In particular, there had been no secure market and demand analyses, it is said that the purchase of freight cars had gone directly beyond the transport needs. So I'm allowed to say: Whoever gets this way certainly has the highest procurement costs. I already know that the national interest and the national employment interest play a major role in this. But I am in favour of exploiting the potential that is possible. I would like to conclude by saying that, if you get wrong, there is a lack of money for important areas. As a Carinthian, I can say that there is an blatant difference between the equipment of the South Railway and the West Railway. [[Abg. Edler: Semmering tunnel!]] As a user of the South Railway, I must point out that the driving time for 300 kilometres is more than five hours. [[Abg. Wabl: Pröll clogs the hole!]] [[Calls:]] This is the same speed as at the time of Freelor of Ghega. I also know that old materials are used and that gastronomy in particular cannot be described as modern. I am not comforted by the comments made by Mr Draxler when he says that the South Railway has less interest in us. I also do not agree with Mr Hainitz that the South Railway will not be an alternative to the road. I am particularly concerned when Mr President Fiedler says something sarcastic, it should not go so far as to turn off heating on the south railway. This is not a regular train service for the year 2000. Here on behalf of the southern federal states, I make the following request: We demand that Carinthia and Styria be very soon connected to the high-performance railway network in Austria. The Italian state railways are already in Tarvis with their high-performance network, and in Austria it is concluded. I am also in favour of a drastic reduction in travel times and the use of modern, attractive material for us. Only then, especially on the South Railway, does the railway have a chance at all to fulfill its mission as a means of transport of the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e4929	The next speaker is Mr Wabl.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e4972	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Much has been said today about how valuable the work of the Court of Auditors is and how good the Court of Auditors is. Mrs Apfelbeck, she is not thankless, because I do believe that our Court of Auditors will be paid. Mr Wurmitzer is quite right when he says that the correct thanks for this work is actually when there are political consequences. Mr Wurmitzer, that is true of gold. They are 100% right with this formulation, because there is nothing more depressing than doing a job – even if you are paid for it – which in itself does not enjoy appreciation. I believe that the items examined - only partly, of course, because the size is very large - have been very detailed, that there are reactions and changes in many areas, and that even in the negotiations there are still corrections to the behaviour of the bodies concerned. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Bravo!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I just mention one example: In one case, the Office of the Steiermärkische Landesregierung has delivered a very inadequate opinion, namely in the context – Mr Barmüller has already mentioned it – with the failure to comply with natural protection requirements. It was simply argued: We have not done this for economic reasons. It could not be explained in detail what was actually the background. We have now received two sides from the Office of the Steiermärkian Government, which we hope will also have reached the colleagues of the political groups. [[Call:No]] Ladies and gentlemen! This has been done by Parliament's management and also by my hands. I ordered my office to copy it and send it on. I got a copy of it. The document was only received yesterday, I must say. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: He has an information gap! That's dangerous!]] Mr Lukesch! They gave me that. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Aha, let go!]] On the post office, Mr. Deputies! [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Did you get this in the course of the Rasterfähnung?]] The Court of Auditors is now also informed. But now I want to go to... [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Who is the sender?]] The Office of the Styrian Government. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Maybe it was the brother?]] I would ask you to consult the Parliamentary Directorate. Ladies and gentlemen! What I consider to be particularly grotesque in the context of the previous discussion is the appearance of Mr Brix. He has argued very serious in some questions, but not in connection with the finding of dates and in connection with the loading of information persons. Mr Applebeck's requests, which we usually make together, have been voted down – and this has already been noted here – simply because they have been said: We don't want to load anyone, and not even those who were responsible at the time, we're just loading those who are now responsible. [[Abg. Brix: Well watched!]] Mr Brix, with this trick, You may still be deceiving those who are not involved in the matter and who are not happy to be in this committee, but all those Members who are in this committee know very well what strategy you are doing there. I also believe that, of course, the first thing to do is to provide information to the officials responsible, and so do many. However, some people also go on vacation, and if the opposition representatives demand that those officials who have apologised for vacations but who can make very substantial contributions to the next meeting be invited again, you reject it because you finally want to finish the report and pass the lid on so that it is over. In addition, Mr Brix, the political leaders - the Parliament and the Committee are political bodies - must also be invited. But you, when a political officer is to be invited from the past, have sworn to practice, to block, to wall, to prove. And you did that with Mr Landesrat Ressel in the case you mentioned here. I felt that it was a tactical mistake to put the Landesrat Ressel on the list of persons to be loaded, although I believe that he has a lot to say on the matter of Ennsnahe Trasse. But Landesrat Ressel was not at all responsible for the operations which led him to the disaster at Ennstrasse. [[Abg. Brix: But now he's responsible!]] These politicians have rejected you, and now you say, of course, we invite the national councils and the political leaders – those who are now responsible. But in relation to those who are actually responsible for the matter, you say: Please, what do you want? We have had one session before, there were nine there, and they have not been asked at all! – They argue that sometime – I think that was four or five years ago – officials were loaded and not interviewed. So what? It has happened once that they have had to listen to what Members have said about matters. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: Perhaps this has to do with the fact that there is too little time in committee! You'll put the time on for a short time too!]] That's what's added. On this point, Mr Barmüller is right: A date was set and pushed through by you in which he could not participate, and that is a fundamental departure from consensus in this house. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. May. Barmüller.]] [[Abg. Brix: That's not true!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Brix and Mr Wurmitzer will not continue to do so. We have an obvious case of abuse – I would say: Thefts – had. If the Court finds that in a gravel pit belonging to the federal government not only 150 000 or 175 000 cubic metres have been mined and recalculated, but more than double, then the Office of the Styrian Government is of course obliged to account for it. What can I say if you, Mr Brix, reject a request that the political or political officer should come to the committee? [[Abg. May. Barmüller: aid!]] There is no information about this. The officials who had been invited to the Committee could not provide any information on where 150 000 cubic metres of gravel remained from federal property. If such things happen regularly, ladies and gentlemen, then it was not a mistake, but then obviously fraud is in play. And if you do not want to clarify this, with the argument that there would always be the experts loaded anyway, then this, ladies and gentlemen, is politically grossly negligent and harmful to democracy – I do not want to go so far as to say: [[Abg. May. Barmüller: aid!]] Aid – and control in this House will be suspended. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. May. Barmüller.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is actually exactly the point here in this House: Control. How is the power, SPÖ and ÖVP finely shared in this country – brotherly, as we have heard from Mr Wurmitzer – controlled? In Carinthia, the FPÖ may also participate in the road construction scandals. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Wormitzer is not a quoteable source!]] This has been reported by Mr Wurmitzer, who may be wrong, and you can still speak for it. But if that is the case, then it will be necessary for this power to be controlled. We have a man in the country who was directly elected and who claimed power in 1992 needs control. [[Abg. Brix: There is a green in the Styria, who has turned out to be a police officer! Doesn't that mean Wabl?]] Ladies and gentlemen! This man, who is talking about the need for control, is going back to the presidential election. He wants to become President of our Republic again – as a citizen candidate, ladies and gentlemen. And now I'm asking you: What legitimizes this man who has said that power needs control if he himself has no concern about access to these areas of power without letting himself be controlled? – Ladies and gentlemen! What about such a candidate? [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The matter with the pension, that he has been caught and that the "profile" has titled: "The newly opened president" has been passed by the ÖVP and by the citizens, who are a hundred percent behind him, in the run-up. I hope that they will continue to support him so that he does not have a way of escape at the next Causa, namely that he will be able to access officials and serve there clearly, without the full cost being reimbursed to the Republic. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm talking about the election campaign of our President Klestil. Already in 1992, he withdrew an official from the New York Cultural Institute – more or less from friend to friend, after a brief exchange of letters with the Foreign Office – and then this official was assigned to the election campaign of the President of the Federal Republic: then, in 1992, and now again in 1998. Ladies and gentlemen! If this situation is not reviewed because the President of the Court of Auditors is obviously too vague to have it reviewed and does not give a clear opinion in public, I expect the President of the Court of Auditors to examine this matter. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Well, well! Please, Mr. Wabl.]] [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The President of the Court of Auditors already has the relevant documents, and the foreign office also knows that this is a serious failure. I would say that it is a suspicion of the abuse of office. For if it were only a mistake that the ÖVP did not repay the full amount at the time, it could have already said: Ladies and gentlemen, there has been a mistake here, we are of course paying this wrong, the ÖVP and Mr Kle Stil are of course prepared to pay for this misappropriation. – No, ladies and gentlemen, the criticism is denoted as unbelievable, as false, and the President and his staff in the public and in front of the press claim that it is all right. Ladies and gentlemen! It can't be. It can't be that that man who proclaims loud in our Republic: Power needs control!, even is caught in this fil of power and does not refer to a clear position. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] As credible, Mr Wurmitzer, the ÖVP, who said in the first attack that everything had been repaid for this campaign leader, but in the second attack, during which review has already taken place, says: We've paid back everything we've been charged!Unknown term type: "%s".? That is to say, the ÖVP is already trying to go on a track after which the culprit must be sought in the foreign office. Ladies and gentlemen! If this process – and I say that with all the emphasis – is not clearly and clearly explained before the election in the public, then I do not know what our institutions – the Parliament, the Court of Auditors, the foreign office, the internal revision – are still capable of. The public must know that their chief inspector, its self-proclaimed inspector, is obviously able to access officials at any time and, according to his wishes, makes compensation payments – without a clear legal basis. It must be noted that there is no legal basis at all for this process. The next time SPÖ simply withdraws officials from the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Foreign Office, from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of Science and makes an election campaign. – Please, it cannot be, Mr Wurmitzer, that is incredible! [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Wormitzer: Just no submissions!]] Mr Wurmitzer! If you take yourself seriously as a member of the Committee on Budgets, you must have an interest in the fact that this causa is being clarified in full. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: That's basically what helps grid-fighting and noise attack!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Wormitzer: You have to clarify others too!]] There must be no damage to the Republic by about a quarter of a million schillings, just because a member of your party wants to become president. [[Abg. Wormitzer: And who else?- Oh, my God!]] That can't be, and you should make it clear. [[Abg. Wormitzer: What your brother is doing in Vienna must be informed!]] Mr Wurmitzer! We are talking here about the highest representatives of this Republic, who are obviously caught in the power felt and who find no clear language. This is the subject that this is about, and if you take yourself seriously as a inspector in this House... [[Abg. Wormitzer: And what about what a judge of the Republic does in Vienna?]] Mr Wurmitzer! It is all right that you criticize the liberals. [[Abg. Wormitzer: Not at all!]] Of course. That's what you're supposed to do. It is all right if you criticize the Social Democrats when they have done things to the ÖBB that are not correct. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: But it's not okay when the Wabl is criticized!]] But when it comes to things that are in your own area – oh, you don't want to burn your fingers! Oh, it's about black matters, it's about my party, I'll keep my mouth shut, otherwise I'll not be on the list next time! – If this is your own understanding as a people’s representative, you have been sitting here too long, Mr Wurmitzer! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Van der Bellen will no longer put you on the list!]] Mr Wurmitzer! I have always appreciated you as one of those Members who, at least, try to get to the bottom of the matter. Try to do this, too, because if... [[Abg. Wormitzer: But this is new to me! Should I quote what you said about me in there? Read it!]] Mr Wurmitzer! I harshly criticize you where I believe you are spreading a wrong opinion. That is also acceptable. But when the President of the Federal Republic turns up in an election speech and says: "I don't owe anyone anything!", a people's representative may well ask: Is that right? Is he really "no one guilty"? [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: That was a prejudgment what you did!]] – I am not talking about whether grammar is true, but I am talking about whether it is actually not guilty of anyone. I am not talking about the party-political debt he has towards the EIA. I am talking about a debt to the Republic of Austria to the extent of a quarter of a million Schilling. This amount has been unlawfully acquired, and it has been unlawfully owned by an official, and we will not accept it, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Your brother has illegal performances in Vienna!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schwarzenberger! You can come out and defend your Federal President, the candidate for citizens. I would like to ask for this because I appreciate Mr Klestil when he says reasonable and clear sentences about our Republic. But I can't accept that man who claimed: Power needs control!, even being totally incapable of it.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e5425	The next speaker is Mr. Dr. Herbe. 7 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e5446	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! I remain closed to what the Scharhuttels have to do with the Court of Auditors' report on the election of the President of the Federal Republic of Germany. I'm sorry, I have to think about that. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Please read it!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Barmüller.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There has also been a lot of artificial excitement to the Bundesstraßenverwaltung chapter, much tactical outrage, not only by Colleague Apfelbeck, but also by colleagues Barmüller. A master of the subject of artificial excitement was the previous speaker, he has fulfilled all the expectations here again. Please note, ladies and gentlemen: This tactic doesn't come up, this game has been through for a long time. Some objective findings: Less than 4 percent of the order value is faulty. This is not the end of all days, you have to notice. Of course, every single misappropriated schilling deserves the full attention of both the Court of Auditors and the audited authority and the National Council, especially since system-immanent errors have been identified in road construction not only in Styria but also throughout the country. So it's about full effort and full error correction. A second finding: There is no reason for a criminal complaint in connection with the Federal Road Administration in Styria. When reading in Styrian daily newspapers: "The thing smells. SPÖ and ÖVP extend the coat of silence on the matter today" and Mr Wabl today goes so far as to speak here under the protection of immunity of fraud, then I would like to say once again: There's no reason for a criminal offence, and here's talk of fraud! Ladies and gentlemen, please take a picture of it. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: How was the gravel pit in the Styria? – 150 000 cubic meters of paid and undelivered gravel!]] A third point: There is agreement that training needs to be strengthened. This is the best way to eliminate these system-immanent errors. It will still be allowed to mention positively, both in the Committee and here, that the Office of the Styrian State Government has already started measures during the conduct of the test on the development and further training of construction supervisory bodies. We shall therefore take note of this report and conclude it today. Another capital relating to Styrian road construction – better: the history of road construction there – will be negotiated in the next few months in a subcommittee of the Committee on the Board of Auditors: the line close to the end of the road. Allow me to make two fundamental points, ladies and gentlemen. Firstly, it is a subcommittee of the Court of Auditors with very clear rules of play according to the Rules of Procedure and not a committee of inquiry, not even a small committee of inquiry. The opposition and parts of the report want a spectacle, and the SPÖ Group will be embarrassingly careful to see how the Rules of Procedure are dealt with. This begins when dealing with people in charge – no one is there on the dock, no information person is subject to the inquisition – and reaches up to press releases. A second observation: What is the task of the Subcommittee? – He has been given the task – this has been formulated by the applicants a little cumbersome – of examining illegal transactions in connection with approval and partial construction of the Endinsnah track and resulting financial burdens of the federal government as well as complaints of the federal government against citizens. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, it is not a matter of deciding whether or not to build the Ennsnah Pass. Interpretations and stylizations in this direction will not allow the SPÖ fraction. That does not do anything but awakens false expectations and hopes in the population. To the dates: Mr. Barmüller, you really disagree with yourself. If, on the one hand, you raise the accusation that the SPÖ wants to take away, and on the other, demands that appointments be postponed – please do not be angry with me, read it in the Minutes – then this is a smooth contradiction. Or to the informationers, about which Wabl basically says... [[Abg. May. Barmüller: I have noticed that you do not want to conclude the committee before the summer! That's no contradiction!]] Read your contradiction in your own speech protocol! Another contradiction: Mr Wabl is here accusing those who apologise are later rejected. In connection with the ÖBB we have postponed, and their boss, Draxler, has come – thus this accusation raised earlier is impressively disproved. [[Abg. Wabl: In this case I have not raised any accusation, but in the case of the official Mirus! That's not contradictory! Why did you reject this official? Why did you reject him?]] Let's talk about the sniper caps, let's talk about the end of the trail. [[Abg. Wabl: Why did you reject him?]] I am opposed to the basic finding that persons who apologise are subsequently rejected. That is not true, Mr Wabl, as you have said. On the matter of the Ennsnahen Treasse, ladies and gentlemen: With the Ressel-Tangente, a decisive approach has long been achieved, as you all know. [[Abg. Applebeck: Mr Colleague! We're dealing with the activity report!]] The Styrian Finance and Transport Council – Mrs. Colleague – listen to Mr. Ing. Joachim Ressel has now succeeded in the failure of the Styrian ÖVP for more than two decades. There is a concrete solution in the Ennstal. On Monday this week, the Styrian government gave green light to the Ressel-Tangente. There is also – you should not forget – the consent of the Greens. Ladies and gentlemen, lastly an urgent appeal to Minister Molterer: For months, yes, for years in the Ministry of Agriculture, there has been a draft for a water law notice about the tub of Stalinach. Many causes are documented, yes, a state authority even goes so far as to threaten the Minister's complaint. My appeal to you, Minister Molterer: Finally, give this notice out, don't take a bad example of cranes or Klasnic! [[Abg. May. Barmüller: You did not let him speak in committee!]] Finally, I would like to say that one thing is clear to me: If it's up to 5. On June – that is the day on which we will be dealing with water law in the Court of Auditors' Subcommittee on the End of the Road – we will, of course, have to talk to Minister Molterer about it in the Subcommittee. I hope for insight for the people in the Ennstal, for the Ressel-Tangente and for the support of this intelligent solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e5572	Now comes Mr Mag. Trattner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e5594	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! The HTM activity report shows how nearly 4 billion schilling can be withdrawn from the public assets within a period of two years in Austria, if intervened accordingly. I come back briefly to the decision of the ATW to buy the HTM group. An investment house that belongs to a group of banks that has provided HTM loans to the company at billions. Then there are two interested parties, two customers who announce their interest in taking over the company; one comes from the food sector, the other from the ski industry. Then there are audit documents indicating that the company has a turnover of 4.3 billion schilling and a share of foreign capital of 99.5 percent, as well as interest payments of 300 to 400 million schilling annually. So it's about a company that was basically insolvent. For if I use the interest payments of 300 to 400 million Schilling as the basis for calculating the interest rate and base the interest rate on the then relevant figure of 6 per cent, then it turns out that this company had debt of 5 billion schilling. A company from the production sector with 5 billion schilling debts, with sales of 4.3 billion schilling and with 99.5 percent of foreign capital to buy, does not make a reasonable business company. At that time it was only bought because there were violent political interventions by two large banks in Austria, who had committed themselves there with loans, which were largely unsecured. Before the whole stream went down, a state company was used to clean up these dubious loans. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: It wasn't like that!]] The individual value adjustment needs of these large banks were already very high at the time, and an HTM bankruptcy would certainly not have digested these two banks very well at that time. - That's the case. The flow of money alone in 1993: For an insolvent company, 200 million schillings were to be paid and 1.2 billion schillings to grant equity grants. In 1995 a shareholder loan of 600 million Schilling was converted into equity and once again to raise capital of 400 million Schilling. The procedure was thus such as: They bought a company and left the board unchanged, although he had previously led the company into the malaise and had not intervened or had not been consulted on prospects for the future, even though he had no idea of these production areas in his own home – as is also the case in the Court of Auditors report – Schilling amount in billions in order to conclude: Now we have to do something and see that we are rehabilitating this company, because so many Austrian jobs are associated with it. Then there will be a restructuring plan, developed by Czipin & Partner with the involvement of Warburg and blessed in the Supervisory Board, which provides a capital grant of 1.5 billion Schilling. This was blessed in the Supervisory Board, but the Austrian People's Party obviously didn't like it. In August 1995, the Austrian People's Party was invited to the then Board of Management of the ATW as Minister of Finance. Dr. Staribacher said he had to make the distinction between economic and political issues. There were no accusations against our work as board members – so the board of directors said. The HTM rehabilitation concept is convincing, he needs and wants the approval of the ÖVP, and this approval is only to be achieved in order to achieve the political prize of the withdrawal of the entire board of directors. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Look here!]] [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Three-digit million amounts, rising from year to year!]] – As far as this intervention by the Austrian People's Party is concerned. Where, then, did the Austrian People's Party stay when it came to the decision to buy this company? – It was heard only from a press release by the then State Secretary Fekter that this deal should not be made. But you didn't hear anything else. Where did your government stay so that you, as the owner, would have intervened so as not to waste any tax money there? Now there is a rehabilitation concept, and then at once the great consultant Treichl comes and says: We can no longer renovate this company, but the best we can do now is to sell this company. As a result, a Mr. Eliash is identified as a buyer whose credit quality information is so equipped that today a leasing company or a bank, if it leases a middle-class car or gives it a credit, requires at least 30 percent of its own share. So was the credit of this Lord! And this is then given a "co-donation" of 1.2 billion schilling, whereby the board fails to inform the banks in good time that a change of ownership is taking place there. In the agreement of the HTM with the relevant Austrian banking consortium of 7. In June 1995 it reads as follows: They – the HTM or the ATW – undertake to inform the Consortial Leader CA in good time of changes in the structure of the participation. But if that doesn't happen, then the banks CA and BA have a right of access, not to the HTM, but directly to the ATW, and this is about many hundred million schilling. They also know exactly that this is conditional. The HTM has not yet been able to establish a balance sheet for 1995 or 1996. That's a very dangerous story. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Very dangerous!]] If this goes down the stream and this group becomes insolvent – and it may be possible to accept it – the banks have a right of entry directly on the ATW, with huge demands of over 1.2 billion schilling, which they are expected to receive as a so-called gift for sale and which is no longer possible to influence at all. When the company becomes insolvent, the obligation becomes due, and the banks are using the ATW. We have not considered whether the EU is in conformity. They just said: Yes, it is to be considered whether the 1.5 billion Schilling Rehabilitation Contribution could be EU-absorbing, but I do not need to think about the 1.2 billion schilling "co-gift" – as Mr Schram said in the Court of Auditors Committee. The President of the Court of Auditors, however, has corrected him very strictly. The next moment of danger to us is that the acts imposed on us are not being fulfilled. These include the submission of the annual accounts of the HTM Group from 1995 to 1999 at the latest by the end of June of the following year. Mr. Elias has to pay 25 million schillings within one month of the day of the decision, until 31. On December 28, 1998, 275 million schilling and so on and so on. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Where's the money?]] You haven't heard of it until now. That is also the reason why they cannot balance there. But where, please, did the "co-donation" remain, which the ATW gave to this group, where did it remain? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That's the question. It's not about small things, it's really about big amounts. If these points are not met, then the amount of this grant of 1.2 billion schilling will also apply to the Minister of Finance and thus to the Austrian taxpayers. That is also stated in the Court of Auditors' report. Should the HTM Group become insolvent before 1999, the audited undertaking could retain any grants due at the end of 1997 to 1998 or recover amounts already paid in the context of insolvency proceedings. – If they become insolvent, how do you want to recover the money from them? There will be You don't see schilling anymore. There's nothing left. And that's what we criticize: First of all, one has made the purchase, on the other hand, political influences have been claimed by the banks involved to ensure dubious loans, then, after the whole process had already been done, one has decided on a reorganisation concept, and finally one has opted for a buyer who has no corresponding credit which has been collected overnight by the then Minister of Finance. And here we come to the point: What commission payments have been made? It would have been interesting what Warburg collected for this deal by selling and not being renovated. And that is why we are so critical in this matter. The then State Secretary, Fekter, has criticized this case. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Was it included in this story?]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Again!]] And this HTM discussion was also the subject of a special meeting in 1995 when the coalition broke up afterwards. I would have expected that if one decides on a restructuring plan, one would also pass through this restructuring plan, but not make a gift of money from someone who does not know what he has and what he gets for it.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e5727	The next speaker was Mr. Dr. Lukesch. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e5748	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Mr Wabl, in his speech, felt it necessary to attack the President-in-Office of the Federal Republic of Germany on the most inconspicuous here from the speaker's desk and to overshadow all those who have long been rejected. I would like to point this out to the sharpest. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Wabl: Where Disputed?]] Mr. Wabl! Your statements are very unbelievable, because you are a person concerned about the election of the Federal President. Your brother is well - known to have been weighed and found too easy. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: I don't think we've got sifting liability, do we?]] He's playing the policeman here in Vienna, and you're playing the judge here in the House over the President-in-Office. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] They have played any confidence in this as the chairman of the Court of Auditors, at least in my case. [[Abg. Wabl: This prepotency is indescribable! Where's the evidence? What's wrong? They obviously cover the abuse of office!]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Court of Auditors reports are so in themselves that we politicians in many chapters - that has already been said - receive very, very good instructions to increase the efficiency of our laws and our administration. And these will also be implemented where they go. On the other hand – and I am speaking now as a longtime member of the Court of Auditors Committee – one sometimes appears to be like a pathologist who stands on a body, shakes his head and asks himself: How did all of this happen? I mean – Mr Trattner has mentioned it – the adventure of Austrian tobacco with Head/Tyrolia/Mares. One stands in front of a "sleeve" which has cost the state monopoly company ATW 3.6 billion Schilling, according to the Court of Auditors, and I say that it has cost the taxpayer, because this money could have financed half the construction of the Semmering base tunnel – I now speak for the Steirers – or a quarter of the construction of the Unterinntalbahn – I am speaking for the Tyroleans now. [[Abg. Firlinger: Your colleague Pröll will not be happy!]] In such a case, the pathologists comfort themselves with the sentence: Mors auxilium vitae. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: Congratulations, Mr. Lukesch! That was Latin!]] Death is an aid to life. So we learn from it, but in this case it was really a very, very expensive learning. Mr Trattner! You already mentioned it: The People's Party was always of the opinion that we should pursue market economic and non-state economic courses with our undertakings, that we should privatize and not pursue a strategy to ensure, in general, the economic power of various parties or parties, through the establishment of a mixed state group. This is the wrong way, and to learn that, we paid a lot of teaching money in the case of ATW and HTM. Mr Koppler! You look at me a little critical. But somehow, I've had the intertrade in my head. It was even bigger. At the time, the responsible directors also said: If we had only been allowed to work on it, it would not have come to this point. Beppo Mauhart also said: If I hadn't fallen in my back, I'd have been able to clean up. But losses in three-digit millions of years have resulted from this commitment, so that I feel different from that of the colleague Trattner, who meant that one should have been rehabilitated in recent years. A restructuring course in the influence of a state company would certainly have been the wrong way. It wouldn't have happened that way. We need to learn. The state is a worse businessman, because business decisions will be exposed to political influence. That is of course. We are supposed to provide framework conditions, that is our task in politics, but we are not supposed to operate companies ourselves. However, I must say to the excuse of our coalition partner: Not all felt that the ATW's commitment to HTM was indeed useful. I would remind you that the then Minister of Finance, Lacina, asked for further advice, beyond those opinions which the leading consultant for the purchase of the HTM. The Consultatio was not the only one, it was also involved in the St. Gallen Management Institute and other advisory institutions. This additional information apparently has not been brought to his satisfaction, but the word of the then Federal Chancellor has apparently decided. This is also what Mr Mauhart said in the Committee: In this case, he had much more frequent contact with the then Federal Chancellor Vranitzky than with Ferdinand Lacina. And then it came exactly as it has come, and the commitment – as the Court of Auditors said – also endangered the core business of Austria's tobacco. Mr Trattner has already said: It could be that the transfer to Elias and the necessary fulfilment of the condition of bringing in 900 million by 1999 could further damage the Republic. I say there only helps to pray, and that actually fits into a corpse, as I said earlier. Adding a second area here is important to me: the partial right of universities. These were also the subject of the Court of Auditors' examination, and the Court of Auditors has indeed said critically that the scientists are not satisfied with the commercial nature of these third-party funds, which have already been used by universities for over a billion years and for the appointment of young researchers. Yeah, but what do you expect from a scientist? He's not an accountant. But you're not supposed to pour out the child with the bath, Mr. Federal Minister. We should leave the partial right where it belongs, namely to the institutions, who know what they can do and who know what they want to research and where there are opportunities. However, we should help the institutions to deal with the business tasks. There would be the rectorate that universities as a whole do. And you have already said that there is a manual, and you will use it to help the researchers facilitate the commercial policy. But because there are problems with the commercial billing, there is no reason to pour out the child with the bath and ultimately to prevent the partial rightfulness through a false shift in competence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e5857	Mr Wabl has asked for an actual correction. – Deputies! I would ask you to respect the Rules of Procedure: Start with the facts you want to correct.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e5880	Mr President. Mr Lukesch has here made the false claim that in the Causa Klestil everything has been contradicted. I'm correcting: Neither the Federation nor the ÖVP nor the Court of Auditors have submitted to the public a proof that this accusation, which rightly exists, would have been rebutted.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e5916	The next speaker is Mrs Schaffenrath. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e5937	Mr President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mr President of the Court of Auditors. I too should like to thank you for this very informative report. Of course, I am particularly sorry that in so few areas your recommendations – and I am particularly addressing the field of education – are actually being followed. Here, the coalition would certainly need action. Mr Wurmitzer! They have so far been the only one who has addressed the field of education and who has thanked the Minister for the exemplary regulation of all matters. I mean, your thanks may bring you personal benefits within the party, just: Your praise was not differentiated because the Ministry of Education was not as exemplary as you represent it. I should just like to point out to you, Mr Wurmitzer, that the Ministry of Education, when it comes to unfinished matters, was outnumbered only by one other ministry: After all, the completion of 19 - 19 is still possible! – the Court of Auditors’ criticisms over the past few years. I call you a few criticisms here: Criticism of the school association was practiced. But here ideological barriers to a solution are opposed. Another criticism was the distribution of adult education funding. There has been a Commission meeting here for years, but results are outstanding. I would like to call you another criticism: the question of overtime pay among school supervisors. This is an issue which the Court of Auditors should continue to devote very much, very intensively, because it is not a matter of the fact that school supervisors - and I here quite specifically, for example, the national school inspector for vocational schools in Tyrol - are not able to carry out teaching work beyond all measures in addition to their activities and thus no longer fulfil the obligation imposed on them by law. But now to the current points. I say quite clearly that it was part of a populist policy of the Minister of Education when she promised a saving potential of 400 million schilling. In my opinion, the answer to this question is that it would have been very inaccurate to estimate it, but I do not believe that it is correct and that constructive ideas and proposals are being put in place. And because today, Mr Wurmitzer, you have shown understanding of the attitude of the teacher union in relation to overtime: I cannot share this understanding, because it is only about partial reduction of a privilege, it is only about the fact that overtimes not done are not paid at least in part. And if you have an understanding of a trade union that is working with teachers who are calling for a breach of service and so to speak, taking the children into hostages and allowing them to suffer the quality of education in Austrian schools, you have, in my view, played out your competence here. This debate is not yet over. We know that the Minister of Education has already made concessions in the "Kurier" today. It will hold on to the individual account, that is to say, this week's consideration, but that will not be the solution. The Court of Auditors will certainly observe very closely how the overtime development can be managed despite these concessions. The topic of overtime in the field of teachers is not discussed for me until the overtime arrangement among teachers and teachers is comparable to the overtime scheme of all other employees in Austria, i.e. if only any additional service actually provided is financially paid. Mr Wurmitzer! I ask you: Did you also thank the Minister of Education for not calling back the 17 million schilling who were unjustly paid too much overtime to teachers? I think it is a scandal that this explicit recommendation from the Court of Auditors is not being complied with. I think that's not correct. I also think this is incorrect for teachers in the federal states of Tyrol and Vorarlberg. I think that this is a gross offense, and I also believe that this is an incorrect way of dealing with public resources. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] If the Minister of Education thinks that this would be too complicated, many procedures would follow, then everyone working in the field of teaching knows that this is not true. A surplus is very informal and very easy to recover at any time, and this is also carried out regularly in daily practice when errors occur in accounting. That is why, Mr Wurmitzer, I would like to conclude on and on behalf of myself, thank you to the Minister of Education for distributing 17 million schilling unevenly to teachers in Austria. This is illegal for me, but you are even unpatriotic to your colleagues in Carinthia.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e6000	The next speaker is Mr Koppler. 7 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e6022	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! I would like to refer once again to the criticism made by Mrs Applebeck and Mr Wabl regarding the persons to be invited to the Court of Auditors. I would like to stress once again that we are very tolerant by the government parties when ordering information, because 99 percent of the information you want will certainly be taken into account. If Mr Wabl says: This may happen that nine persons are not asked questions, that is not so bad, it is good if they listen to them!, I must say that we should do a little more carefully when selecting the information people. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! However, I would like to comment exclusively on ÖIAG mountain building. I am saying in advance that there can, of course, be different views in my group – I do not think that democracy is so uneven at all – because the individual Members have a different view of regional policy. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! When ÖBAG, ÖIAG-Bergbauholding AG, was founded in 1988, it was commissioned to bundle and best manage mining activities in the former state lighting sector. From the beginning, this also entailed a planned redimensional of mining activities in Austria, because Austria has many warehouses, but many poor storage sites, which often no longer justify economic exploitation. And that, ladies and gentlemen, was and of course is a problem. In the past, however, at the time of the ÖIAG Group, mining holding was very much the task of making the best possible use of both the resources and the properties and not selling them. The ÖBAG has therefore also begun to develop and develop in terms of leisure, tourism and sport, especially where mining had to be reduced or abandoned for economic reasons. With the new ÖIAG, ladies and gentlemen, according to the legal privatisation order, mining holding had to say goodbye to this strategy, and although there are no explicit privatization orders in the ÖIAG Act regarding mining, the pressure to sell – for the sake of selling, as I mean – became clearly felt there. Critics had called for the ÖBAG to realize the originally planned entry into small mining for economic policy reasons and that the state should finally withdraw from these areas. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Privatising for the sake of privatization, selling for the sake of sale is generally a priority. The problems of mining holding from the very beginning were that the warehouses are too high achievable and that most of them have or have only one customer to whom they have been and are extradited. A free market has never happened in this area, as I mean. If, for example, ÖBAG did not actually behave professionally in this situation when selling the WTK to its former managing directors, as the Court of Auditors notes, this must not be surprising because of the particular situation of mining holding. Moreover, it was not many, ladies and gentlemen, who at the time tried to prevent their sale. Where were all those who today criticise these sales when it might have been possible to help the dying mining through appropriate complementary work-making measures? [[Call the SPÖ:To the "advanced" front!]] The role of the OKA in relation to the reduction of the WTK coal is an example of this. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Nevertheless, mining holding has succeeded in making the planned rescales – however unfortunate such redimensionals are – and in making mining activities essentially socially sustainable. In the meantime, of course, it is always easier to criticise individual decisions without having to bear the responsibility for the firms themselves, and to claim that it would have been better otherwise. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e6056	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Gabriela Moser. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e6081	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Political issues are controlled by the Court of Auditors in terms of their economic efficiency. And I would like to raise these political issues today on the basis of two topics. In this hour, transit traffic on our north-south, east-west routes increases by a few thousand tons. On the other hand, this Court of Auditors report reads what ÖBB is doing in the procurement sector in particular in the goods sector. And today it is illustrated in an illustration that in 1997 the increase in road freight traffic rose to 23.5 million tonnes – the railway has lavish 7.9 million tonnes. It is also read that the increase in the international transit of goods on the road will be 300 per cent by 2015 – I believe that even you, Mr Minister, have said so. By 300 percent more freight transport on the road is ahead of us by the year 2015! The forecasts have so far been exceeded and, if not countered, they will be exceeded until 2015. The Court of Auditors' report will be re-directed with inadequate calls for tenders, inadequate procurement procedures, uncoordinated and unstructured mechanisms, which will result in the acquisition of the fleet, the acquisition of cars and the acquisition of cars at ÖBB. I'll go into it in detail. If one reads these reports about the Transithölle Tirol, one meets at a single sicksale. There are men and women there who cannot open the windows of their houses because the dust and dirt immediately lay on all furniture, carpets et cetera. There are children there who suffer from allergies caused by dust and caused by road transport. There the trucks really donate more or less over people's lives! The following details can be found in the Court of Auditors' report on public procurement: Diesel-moving blocks have been purchased: 18 million schilling the first price, after all they cost 28.5 million because there were no international calls for tenders. The train is headed for, the train is not sufficiently efficient, the train remains on the track! Road freight traffic "overruns" the people! In the Court's report, it is read that electrical roadblocks were over-fitted. This is where the money we are missing for the increase in the efficiency of combined transport, the transport of goods by rail. In this area, the money is missing, on the other hand, it has more or less been thrown out of the window – I deliberately say "more or less", because more of it probably had an industrial branch of Austria, which is also very intensive in employment, namely the car construction, the companies which produced the vehicles, which the ÖBB then partially bought at over-priced prices, partly with over-fitted equipment. I quote what is stated in the Court of Auditors' report: The public procurement sector of ÖBB is partly a support for the vehicle industry. In other places, it says: Support purchase has had a limited employment impact. [[Abg. Edler: Otherwise we would have locked up!]] It is also possible to attach this to another detail, namely diesel hydraulic freight trains. The Court of Auditors' report notes that these have not been in place in itself. There was a failure to invest money, which is missing on the other hand, in order to expand the track in the competition road – rail or better equip it to bring it to the front man. As money flows in the wrong direction, on the other hand, developments are promoted that harm people, especially those in Tyrol, but also those in the area of the East-West motorway – the East-West transit will indeed increase through the east opening. The discharge measures are missing. A much more offensive freight policy approach is needed for rail transport, more coordinated operations, but above all more flexible procurement models or rental models in the procurement of freight vehicles. In the context of this Court of Auditors report, I would like to refer briefly to another political mismanagement which is clearly demonstrated in this report with the sum of 250 000 S. It is also about a state action, namely that the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, who is in office, has not yet paid off what he would have had to pay in the first month of the first week after his first election. There is still a lack of this sum of 250 000 S; six years after he became practically beneficiaries of this investment sum, which is more or less the Austrian state than he was not yet a statesman, but a party candidate. This element, the state support of a party candidate, must be eradicated. In this respect, however, most of the functionaries of the ÖVP are speechless. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: Don't want us to say something about it!]] Only you, Mr Lukesch, have gone to the point that we are not discussing this. To this end, I must say: We discuss this completely objectively, we call the sum, we demand the evidence, which, however, remains, is your performance, your debt repayment, your correct behavior for a maneuver that is very doubtful by the state. This is also what we are presenting today in connection with this Court of Auditors report, and I am curious whether, in the course of the debate, the ÖVP is in a relatively weak position – the ÖVP is almost silent in this context – is going to get through to a confession in the direction that this debt will be finally settled so that the Lord, who came to this office with party money, government money and as a party candidate, can now go undisputed as a citizen to the next round. At present this is very controversial.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e6146	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Steindl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e6167	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Minister! Mr State Secretary! It is very interesting in this discussion: Whenever a speaker or speaker goes to the speaker's desk and talks about the Court of Auditors' report, but does not have the appropriate knowledge because she or he has not read the report, the issue of the Federal President is discussed. We really need to see this clearly here! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: She was not in committee either!]] I come back to the Court of Auditors report: There are two general findings on this report in 1996: First: The short report is excellently drawn up and prepared by the Court of Auditors and brings the issues to the fore. This is only possible, of course, because excellent professionals work there, and so it should remain. In the direction of Mr Ruttenstorfer State Secretary: In the discussion on the right to pay, Pragmatization and so on, the child should not be thrown out with the bath. On the contrary: In such instances as the Court of Auditors, the system should be questioned critically, but not at the Pragmatization where it is necessary. The EIA is committed to this protection of civil servants, particularly in the field of the Court of Auditors. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The auditors of the Court of Auditors are currently being treated as officials of the general administration, and this is simply not enough in the current law of employment and remuneration, considering the responsibility of the Court of Auditors and independent financial control. The fact that officials can be successfully exposed to pressure or made available for intervention alone is fatal. It is therefore necessary that this Pragmatization should not be agitated. One thing has to be stressed in the context of the audit report: We must also note that the Court of Auditors must carry out more and more activities which we have to carry out. These activities have nothing to do with the classical activity, the classical test report and the examination. This must also be shown at this point. Point two: Many of the cases identified in this report remind me of the statement made by Qualtinger: "I don't know where I'm going, but I'm there all the faster!" Especially in the areas of ÖIAG mountain building, HTM and Wibeba, wrongs that resemble each other were shown exactly, for example the failure of targets. For example, the ÖIAG mountain building holding company has made it possible to change its business guidance four times within ten years to harm the company. A third point that needs to be identified: Although there are various control possibilities in accordance with AG law or GesmbH law, they have not been implemented by the supervisors or perhaps also by the management to the appropriate extent. Fourth: For me, the suspicion is that political intervention has been repeated under the guise of regional interests or sustainability. As an example, I mention the silent participation in the "Robinson-Club Ampflwang" where 100 million Schilling went down the stream, or the Wibeba's participation policy, which totaled more than 80 million people down the stream. The fifth statement concerns human resources policy – with these many special contracts, with these thousand safeguards. I could not explain this to a burgerian worker who might earn 10,000 s gross per month! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I have once again come to the realization that the State should withdraw where one can make something private. It was simply the policy of the 1970s that tried to take part. If you look at the national lights in 1993 with the many mixed companies – the SPÖ manuscript! – and the ÖIAG structure in 1998 – this bears the manuscript of the ÖVP! – can be found: [[the speaker shows two graphics]] [[Abg. Edler: Now you stop!]] In this period of time, a successful wave of privatisation has taken place! And that is the way that we support and that we want to take in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e6250	Mrs Dr Gabriela Moser has reported an actual correction. Please, Madam Member, start with the facts you want to correct.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e6288	I would like to correct and correct the comment made by my predecessor. I have already read the report – you said I had not read it. But I had – I admit – some formulations wrong in memory. The Court of Auditors report does not - you rightly mentioned the sum of 250 000 s - that was wrong with me, but the Causa, and so I have had the wrong memory. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: You're correcting yourself!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] He addresses the Causa on page 51, in the area of raising housing remuneration for heads of representatives. The Causa is thus defined, although there is no specific amount in the report.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e6343	The next speaker is Mr Rosenstingl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e6365	High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Colleague Brix is unfortunately not in the room... [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Excuse me, he's here. I've guessed you're further down. [[Abg. Edler: He's been waiting until you talk!]] Col Wurmitzer is thank God also in the hall. I would like to take a brief look at the charges of the information subjects, and I have to say that I have experienced this for many years now, but it was different before – I have to admit that. I have been a member of the National Council since 1990 and have always been represented in the Court of Auditors since then, but it was different before. As an opposition, it is now impossible for us to load a political person because the government parties are wallowing. Mr Wurmitzer! We have nothing of it if you say that you invite the current national council to the Court of Auditors Committee. For in the time that the Court of Auditors is dealing with, or in the time when, for example, it was about the Ennsnah course, the current woman was the head of state in charge of Klasnic. She led the department at the time. In my opinion, we parliamentarians have a right to load those people who were responsible at the time! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to point out – and you know that this is happening again and again – that we in the Court of Auditors, when the President-in-Office of the Council is there, but at the time when the event took place, do not have to hear again and again: I'm sorry, it was before my time. I don't know anything about it, I wasn't in office at the time. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: That's not true!]] Mr Lukesch! We hear that again and again. I therefore ask you: Why don't you load those responsible? Do those responsible have something to hide, or do you perhaps fear that they could give us answers that would not be right for you to say something in the Committee on the Court of Auditors, which would not be right for the government groups? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: That's wrong!]] I put two possible explanations in the room: Either it is cowardice of you, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, or you act totally undemocratic. – I can only tell you: Learn democracy and invite those people who were also responsible at the time of the Court of Auditors' report! That would be democratic, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to address something else that has been said here. I don't know who said that anymore, but it said: They're loading people, and they won't answer them at all. [[Abg. Wormitzer: (nine fingers high) nine!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! Perhaps you should teach your ministers to also let other persons speak. For if we ask someone, for example, an information person, some officials, we do not really want the minister to answer, but we want the official or the officer who is loaded to answer. However, it has unfortunately been yours that the Minister knows everything, answers everything and does not allow his own officials or other officials who have also been invited to speak. Therefore, once again: Learn democracy! Let the people we ask, and invite those who were responsible at the time! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Wormitzer: That's not true! And you're learning story!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to deal with one more detail of the Court of Auditors' report, namely the acquisition of the ÖBB's rail vehicle, because I believe that the Court of Auditors' criticism is very legitimate in this area. In some parts the operation of the Austrian Federal Railways was rather worrying at this time. [[Abg. Edler: There you were still the board of directors!]] For example, I am incomprehensible that in the case of locomotives, it was not determined how much the actual need is, but that, without any basics, any locomotives were ordered or purchased. [[Abg. Edler: Mr Rosenstingl! Were you on the board of directors at the time?- Oh, my God!]] Mr President, I should like to thank Therefore, all procurement transactions were over-priced. There is no single procurement process in this area where prices have not been higher. In fact, the Court of Auditors' report shows that employees of the purchase of the ÖBB have mentioned this in part and said in the case of individual vehicles that they should actually be cheaper, but that the Board of Directors at that time has turned away from these indications of the purchase and has nevertheless made or approved this procurement. It is sometimes justified to say: This was a sort of job creation in Austria, it was a difficult time at the time, and one must take this into account. – But I ask the board of directors of the ÖBB and also the minister responsible to see that an intelligent purchasing policy could also be made at the ÖBB in Austria. No doubt that was not the case at the time. One could have said: We want to buy this in Austria, but you have to keep half the prices that are used internationally. Interesting in this connection was the statement of the Director-General Bübleis, who said he had no time to investigate needs, because first of all the fleet was so miserable that you had to make up for it quickly – okay, there you have to do something – and because, second, that's interesting! – the then Minister Streicher felt it was absolutely necessary to present the "New Bahn" programme one day before the appointment of the new board in 1987. So to speak, he took the board to Zugwang, and said: You have to do what I said right now, because I told the public one day before you were even ordered. Mr Edler! This is really party policy at the expense of the ÖBB – a policy I reject. It is only because at the time the Minister Streicher made himself somehow important and wanted to introduce something, that he has indirectly caused these locomotives to be bought far too expensive. I reject this policy at the expense of the ÖBB. The example of Mariazellerbahn shows how absurd that is what has been done. There, too, motor vehicles were purchased, with the aim of speeding up the travel time of the Mariazellerbahn. First of all, instead of ten motor vehicles that would have been necessary, one has only acquired two, and secondly – and I find that somehow curious – it has only been in the post that these motor vehicles do not ultimately produce any time gain, because the door opening times in these motor vehicles were so long that the time that the cars could win was lost in the stations again. That's what I'm asking you: Where was the planning at the ÖBB? – I believe that these door opening times would have been quite comprehensible in the case of motor vehicles, and then one could have acted differently. I hope that such a waste policy can be avoided in the future. However, I would like to say one thing to the Director-General Draxler – unfortunately not present today: I do not think it would make sense for the Director-General Draxler to sit down in committee, to be pleased with everything, to say that it is all right anyway, and I do not think that this would make all the mistakes unblemished. I hope that it will act differently in the future and that this waste policy will not continue.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e6525	I call Mr Edler. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e6546	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! A comprehensive report on the 1996 administrative year is available, and I think we have discussed it in detail in the Committee on the Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen! I could see that, first of all, what affected the competence of the ministers, these ministers were always present in the committee, and secondly, in my view, the officials who were questioned were always competent, so that all the questions raised there were answered, including by the President of the Court of Auditors. – This once to the beginning. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address two chapters, first of all the ÖBB, the rail vehicle ships, and second of all the HTM. The ÖBB have been the subject of the discussion several times today. I think there are two things to be distinguished. It is necessary to take into account the breach which has occurred between 1992 and 1993 by the fact that we have decided here in the House to take account of the ÖBB Act and therefore also the outsourcing, and that we consider the time before it and the period thereafter different. Since Mr Rosenstingl, in particular, was the last to say that the new board of directors had made extensive purchases in 1987, and so on, I should like to stress today – I have done this a few times here in the House – that almost nothing was invested in the ÖBB in the years before. Only with the project "New Bahn" were substantial investments made from the mid-1980s onwards. Of course, these were absolutely necessary, and it was then fast to decide on them. According to the Court of Auditors' criticism, which can be found and read in its conclusions, ÖBB should prefer to buy serial products within the framework of international calls for tenders. That would be much cheaper. – This may be part of the vote, but this does not apply to all rail vehicles. For if this means products from Eastern Europe, I must say that there are vehicles there, especially locomotives that do not comply with our noise and environmental requirements. So that wouldn't be a good project. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that we must see ÖBB as a client of our vehicle industry from our waiting point of view. The ÖBB are actually the chance for the Austrian vehicle industry to survive at all! You have to say that here too. If the ÖBB had not made the corresponding orders, we would no longer have a vehicle industry in Austria today, and that would be very unfortunate. If I can now take the lead in speaking to Director-General Draxler, I can say that he has now led international calls for proposals and that we are proud to note that the Austrian industry and in particular the vehicle industry have stood up to this competition. A very good Austrian product has maintained a world market price and is now practically already receiving the award. Especially the new locomotives – these are E-Loks – with the name "Taurus" are a great hope for the Austrian vehicle industry. It not only counts on the orders of the ÖBB, but also hopes for successor orders from other railway companies. The cost of this ÖBB procurement programme will be around 15 billion schilling in the next few years and thus contribute to the recovery of the Austrian economy. Ladies and gentlemen! This project has been advertised internationally. I would like to stress once again that the Austrian vehicle industry is able to take advantage of this competition and thus secure Austrian jobs. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It has been critically noted here – and also mentioned the time under Director-General Übleis – that the development of prototypes et cetera at that time had devoured millions. Some have said that these funds have been wasted. I would like to say this – and the Federal Minister Caspar One thing that has been said very clearly in the Committee is that in Austria we also expect the Austrian economy and the Austrian industry to carry out substantial research and development. These projects, too, cost money, ladies and gentlemen. As an established railway driver, I know that we had great difficulties with the new prototypes – whether the 2068 diesels or the 1163-e-holes – at the beginning of their deployment. I also know that our fellow railers, the engineers, have contributed substantially to the development and carried out substantial work. And today we can say: I would like to express my appreciation for these achievements which the colleagues of the ÖBB have put into this project. In summary, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say: This is certainly to be said critically. However, I should like to point out that Mr Draxler, President-in-Office of the Court of Auditors, explained with all clarity: From its point of view and responsibility, the ÖBB have taken note of the criticism of the Court of Auditors and are also prepared to implement the concrete proposals that have been made. I mean, that's a happy answer to the question of what actions have been taken. Ladies and gentlemen! Now also some sentences on the HTM. Of course: If you were to write Austrian economic history, you would have to say that in this case it was not a happy development or action. At that time, considering the board of directors of Austria Tobacco plants to look at other products and market gaps on the market, due to the EU's pressure towards liberalisation, may have been a strategic one, but the purchase of the HTM company in spring 1993 certainly created an economic situation that caused a need for action in 1995. At that time, it was about the decision to continue or not to continue the company HTM, before the decision, which was politically required, to privatize the Austrian tobacco plants. The decision was then: either to keep a clot on the leg or to register a bankruptcy – the latter we all did not want to do because thousands of jobs were at risk – or to try to sell the company HTM, one can also say to reject what you want to call it. It was then decided to sell the company HTM. Mr. Elias was evaluated at the time. I do not want to make an assessment here, but at the time, due to intensive discussions, the Supervisory Board found that it was very likely that Mr Eliasch, with his international experience, would be able to bring HTM back to the fore. In any case, the latest figures in the 1997 report show that HTM is currently quite well on the world market. Now to the decision of the EU Commission. It is legitimate – and the Austrian Federal Government was indeed an advisor to the dispute – that the Commission has been called. The Commission has now decided, with certain conditions, that these contributions can easily be monitored by the Federal Government even in the case of private events, that is to say private economic transactions. Mr Edlinger has clearly stated in the Committee that he will do everything possible to ensure that these requirements are complied with by Mr Eliasch. We will have this monitored by our financing company. Ladies and gentlemen! If we look at the risk raised here in the report, we have to say that there has also been a discussion in the Committee on the Court of Auditors between President Dr. Fierce and Minister Edlinger. There are different views on this point. The President of the Court of Auditors has meant that there is still a risk for the Republic. Minister Edlinger has rejected this because, while this has been negotiated contractually with the then state-owned Austrian tobacco factories, he also believes that it is binding on the privatized Austrian tobacco factories. He said there was a danger of not seeing a risk to the Republic of Austria if we met the Commission's requirements and, if so, put in place appropriate measures. This would certainly eliminate this risk. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course we need to monitor that. As has already been said, the Federal Minister responsible will have this carried out through the financing company, so that we can see exactly the development, especially with regard to the pending action of two competitors in the first instance at the European Court of Justice. No one can say today what a decision it will make. If it is decided that this will be referred back to the Commission, the Commission will probably defend these contributions, this incubation. That's what it's supposed to be. But that, ladies and gentlemen, there is no risk for the Republic of Austria as a whole, that is very pleasing for us! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e6594	The next speaker was Mr Grollitsch. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e6615	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! [[The speaker looks at some empty rows of seats.]] Survivors Ladies and gentlemen of the House! This convoluted report contains a lot of work and a lot of brains, including the Court of Auditors. Even though Mr Applebeck has already thanked President-in-Office Dr. Fierz for this, I would like to repeat this and tell him at the same time that he did not deserve to be treated in such a lapidar way in the Committee on Budgets. Unfortunately, it is true that some of the persons charged apparently had a duty of silence, some were incompetent, and whenever, as in connection with the Federal Road Administration of Styria, there was a case and the point, a non-existent court council was gladly quoted, which is on vacation, or those who were already in retirement or were already in death. At least those present could not be properly questioned. [[Abg. Wormitzer: This is the untruth!]] I do not think it is reasonable for people who are concerned with this work to be sufficiently informed or not to speak, to be opposed to opposition, but also to the Court of Auditors. It was therefore quite right to load Mrs Klasnic as the political leader responsible at the time, and we deeply regret that this request was not granted. After all, this is about 14 incorrectly calculated constructions in the Styria. This has gone down in the previous debate. It has also happened that the Styrian Government did not have to deliver an opinion on the Court of Auditors' report in seven cases, i.e. with the 3.6% incorrect accounts, as well as Mr Herzegovina. He meant: There were no criminal charges, so everything is fine. There are just system-immanent mistakes you have to live with. – I have to tell you: We do not think of living with it, Mr. Herb – wherever you may be! [[The speaker looks at the Abg sitting on the gallery. Dr. Herbs]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Herb is also a self-willing new word creation slipped over the lips when he spoke of a "Ressel-Tangente". What does he mean by that? He has been looking for a curve to the Court of Auditors' Subcommittee and to the end of the course. Some time ago, the State Councillor Ressel explained about the media that he had the solution to the end of the trail in the head and on the paper: The city of Stalinach had to be surrounded by the so-called Ressel-Tangente. He has left out entirely the fact that the Liberal Councillor Schmid had already made the request in January 1995 in the Styrian Government to finally attack this tangent, this bypass of Stalinach. At that time, Mr. Landesrat Ressel rejected this as "unreasonable partial solution to the big concept". – Now he tells us about the media about the "Ressel-Tangente", and his party friend herbs do this here! The Ennsnahe track, at the 26 years that were missed by the two coalition parties, first and foremost by the ÖVP, is now trying to save over these tangents. Mr Wurmitzer is not too sorry to say with his old complex of the Carinthian Karawanken motorway all these mistakes in the Styria: At that time, under the responsibility of Mr Haider, similar things happened. That is why everything is good and right, which is listed here in 14 points and goes into the millions. [[Abg. Wormitzer: (keeping a document in height) I never said that!]] Mr Wurmitzer! They have overlooked that the liberals have repeatedly called for a subcommittee to detect the irregularities there. Who was against it, Mr. Wurmitzer? – They were opposed and prevented the Enlightenment. We don't have any problems with that. [[Further call of the Abg. Wormitzer.]] A few more sentences in the field of multiservices in schools. It was also mentioned by Mr Wurmitzer that additional services are necessary and that additional services have declined. Mr Wurmitzer! The Court of Auditors did not have to examine the extent to which the additional services have declined, but it had to consider the impact of the introduction of § 61 in the Wage Act. In the budget debate, I myself pointed out to the Federal Ministers that this is not feasible. At that time we were told that we as the opposition party did not have sufficient information. In fact, the estimate was about 300 percent wrong. Even the ministry admits that its own estimates were too inaccurate. You just can't live with that. It must not happen that figures are given, that additional services are actually carried out and that the real goal of saving is missing, namely to replace with well-trained young teachers what expensive teachers provide, of course, by their politically employed directors, with additional services, depending on how artificially they behave. At my request, I have now been informed by the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs of the principal number of teachers for 1996, and I have had to note that the increase is marginal. The young teachers sit on the street, and the old teachers continue to provide additional services. Not even an adaptation to the law and a repayment of 17 million schillings, as the Court of Auditors told us, have been achieved. It smells all around! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e6695	Mr Wurmitzer referred to an actual correction. – Deputies! Please start with the facts you want to correct.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e6719	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! Mr Grollitsch said from this point of view that the officials had a duty of silence in the Court of Auditors. – This claim is incorrect. There were no officials as an informant who would have appealed to official secrecy or to a imposed duty of silence. The opposite is true: The officials were very cooperative and have provided information according to best knowledge and conscience.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e6749	The next speaker is Mr Stampler. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e6770	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr State Secretary! The Court of Auditors' report on the review period November 1995 to 1996 also deals with the Federal Road Administration of Styria in a sub-area. This section is divided into three sub-sections: Federal Road Administration, Tunnel Construction and Motorway, with 11 projects in the Federal Roads area, one project in the motorway area and two projects in the area of tunnel construction. In my statement on the Court of Auditors' report on the Federal Roads Administration, I would like to say at the outset that there is no reason at all for the opposition to be scandalized, even if this is tried. This is also confirmed by the President of the Court of Auditors, who noted that there is no case in which the prosecutor should have intervened. Mr Hofrat Gobiet, the transport coordinator of Styria, also stressed at the Committee's meeting that the Court's criticism was taken seriously and that it had been learned from it for future projects. Especially in road construction, there is an interplay between acting and reacting – on the one hand, the builder, on the other. It must be noted that in the case of a total order volume of 758 million schillings, around 3.7 percent of the order amount was raised by the Court of Auditors. In this respect, Styria is not an exception, but it is in the area of shortcomings, as they are found everywhere else. Of course, we must, of course, agree on this issue, be resolved quickly. However, the Court of Auditors, in its statement of entry, explicitly notes that the willingness of the Office of the Steermärkian Government to address the shortcomings prevented further financial disadvantages. It has also been found that there has never been political influence in the field of procurement. That's the decisive thing. Faults make everyone, after all, we are all humans, but the willingness to clean them up is the most important thing, and that was done anyway. The Court of Auditors also noted that by mid-1997 some 4.2 million schillings had already been reached. Meanwhile, another 0.96 million from the construction project Radlpass and 0.32 million from the purchase of explosives have flown back. In total, this is already about 20 percent of the amount that has been complained about. As far as the criticised training of the construction managers is concerned, training courses and lectures for the construction managers are already taking place in the spring of 1998. I think that's right and important, because the construction supervision on the ground is the link between trailers and construction companies. If there is often a strained relationship between trailers, road builders and founders, they also have to make short - term decisions that one may not see as the best. I would like to make a few brief comments on the report which, as has been said, is part of the Federal Roads, Tunnels and motorways chapter. It should be mentioned that the Steiermärkian government in the construction of tunnels in any case maintains the use of the mountain class matrix as the basis for the tender. There may have been difficulties at the beginning, but the shortcomings have been eliminated and this call for proposals will be maintained. The Court of Auditors took note of the fact that the risk of manipulation of building books was now eliminated by the return to management. I know from my experience as mayor that road construction is a very sensitive area and that the unexpected is part of the agenda. Everyone would like a nice road to drive, just not at home. During construction work it is often necessary to make minor changes. Especially in the Styria, the geological conditions are very different and often very difficult to estimate. I would like to say once again, because I have just come out of the community and know this area of activity from practice: Local construction supervision is an intermediate link between drivers and clients and very often has to make rapid changes. I am glad that a lot has been done in this area. One has learned from mistakes and will also pay attention to this in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e6824	Mr Dipl.-Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). – honourable Member, 4 minutes of voluntary speaking time limit? [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann: 6 minutes!]] Six minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e6854	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr State Secretary! High house! I am referring to the chapter ÖIAG/ÖBAG, specifically for the sale of Wolfsegg-Traunthaler Kohlenwerks-GesmbH, formerly -AG. In this company it was found that coal mining is uneconomic. For this reason, the long-standing managing director Dr. Schabel was appointed liquidator. As a result, Dr. Schabel suddenly acted as a buyer of this company, inspired by his dependence on mining. However, during his time as managing director of this company, the WTK-GmbH, he has already made preparations in this direction. Now, the situation is so that it is a family business, a family GmbH, a joint venture that he has set up, and this 500 000 S-GmbH is the current owner of the WTK-GmbH. During the winding-up phase, interested parties, which have occurred in a large number of cases, have been appalled. How did you do that? – They gave the interested party advice on all possible risks, which are only imaginable, and thereby stopped them from buying. Finally, only two companies wanted to buy the WTK, namely its own GmbH and the company Niederndorfer. The supplement has then received the Schabel participation company. It happened by chance that when the interested parties were hardly stopped from buying, the instructions from the ÖIAG/ÖBAG that only more was sold in pieces. The liquidation was stopped. The Court of Auditors also found quite critical in its report that there was no reason why this was not useful. There were, as I believe, very likely reasons for this, namely personal of the liquidator Schabel, who did not provide his knowledge to the company WTK, but used his insider knowledge to create capital from it personally. But he did not make this purchase without prior assurance, namely with a 36 million Schilling mining promotion for the years 1996 to 1998, and for me the question is who actually controls the meaningful use of this mining promotion, which comes from the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Although the acquisition of the commitments has led to the company's liquidity capital and therefore, of course, the purchase price of the company itself being very low, the obligation of the second-hand supplies for the former employees of the WTK has not taken over the WTK or the Schabel-GmbH, but the ÖIAG/ÖBAG. Schabel was commissioned to deliver with his investment company, one such as the information person Dipl.-Ing. Staska said voluntary social benefits. Now, in order to be able to take advantage of mining, one must, of course, also operate mining. If you are promoting a coal that is not available for sale, it is good to be able to deliver at least deputate coal deliveries and get paid a good price for it – so it happens in ampflwang. And there are other inconsistencies, ladies and gentlemen, for example, that an area of the WTC has been set under monument protection. Integrated into a planned mining museum was the so-called Nordfelsstollen. A coal cup was placed under monument protection, part of Schmitzberg. This happened inconveniently, because exactly where the tagging was quite economically possible, the coat of monument protection was suddenly spread over and thus the activities of Schabelschen GmbH were restricted. What happened? – Over the night, the tunnel that collapsed with the people of the region, with the miners of the WTK, is particularly safe, even if the safe stables were bad. Thus the museum project died, the monument protection was removed, and Schabel was able to develop its mining activities there. At the expense of the ÖIAG/ÖBAG, he has taken up the productionnic house fire and now supplies the former employees of the WTK with this coal. The nuclear area, that is, the area on which the management building, the coal washing plant and similar buildings stood, was not taken over by Schabel. Why? – There are track systems there that should have been dismantled if there is no need. Estimated reduction costs: 17 million schilling. The sale of this area in the size of 8 to 9 hectares was made to the ÖGEG, the Austrian Society for Railway History, for a schilling. But Schabel has the right to use facilities, land, machines, yes to everything. It also happened that last year he sold to Hungary the coal-washing plant in which 85 million schilling was still invested before the closure of the WTC. More than 40 Hungary then stood at the border and were not left to Austria. They had no work permit. It was settled in such a way that, although the deposit was made on the part of Hungary to Schabel, the business that was rejected by Hungary could not be carried out, a deadline was set for the dismantling to take place until August 1997, if not, of Schabel. She fell back to Schabel, he probably got money for it, and he sold it to the Japanese for a second time in 1998. A small inconsistency, as I mean, but everything is very well infested. Investments were made before the sale of the WTK at the expense of the ÖIAG or the WTK, in wheel loaders, in trucks – for the Schabel niche production following the purchase. They're probably peanuts. Already mentioned was the investment of 110 million Schilling in the tourism project "Robinson Club", which has now been devalued to 10 million, and so on. It shows a certain moral picture. The, as I mean, red staska, which has fallen into displeasure, and the black shawl have turned a few things. [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: This has nothing to do with red-black!]] Mr President. If the information person or, as I think, non-information person Staska means that he would not have been involved in the sale, but would have been solely responsible for the total sale, then this is the smooth untruth. I have a newspaper article here, according to which he claims exactly the opposite in connection with the negotiations which Schabel has still made following the announcement of his interest in the WTC. That is therefore incorrect. There is still a lot to be said about this. The fact is: The business was only a good thing for Schabel, it meant an improvement of his pecuniary situation. But it is known that money does not smell, but the business that was done on the verge. As I mean, this will ultimately fall back on the public hand. The 500 000 S-GmbH is not a guarantee for all the damage to the mountains, for all the obligations that exist on the part of the WTK. I can only say: Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e6895	Mrs Gabriele Binder. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e6919	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! Return to a sub-area of the Court of Auditors' report on the acquisition of the ÖBB's rail vehicle. One of the main criticisms of the report was the acquisition of the ÖBB until 1993, which was in the interests of the domestic industry but at the expense of the ÖBB, the Court of Auditors said, since it mostly went home without a tender. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] Business-oriented market analyses did not receive enough input in the calculation of needs. That too was a criticism point. What have been the changes within the ÖBB since this review, since this report, since these opinions? From 1993 onwards, the new ÖBB board held back in new purchases and waited for secure market and demand analyses. When purchasing, the advantages of competition were used more efficiently than before. Passenger transport was the most stable element of demand. In this context, the ÖBB took into account the procurement of double-stock cars. The Court of Auditors expressed its positive views on the transport of passengers in the transport sector. In 1996, the ÖBB responded to the need for commuting with the purchase of 60 double-stock cars. The ÖBB ordered another 180 double-stock cars in June 1996. This large series was advertised internationally, and the ÖBB was able to reduce the purchase price per car by 18 percent compared to the price for the last passenger cars purchased in 1993 and to halve the investment per seat. In its opinion, the Court welcomed the procurement of local transport-specific rolling stock to improve customer comfort. On the subject of procurement of double stock cars some details for you, ladies and gentlemen: Since September 1997, double-stock cars have been in operation on the southern railway line between Vienna and Payerbach-Reichenau. But how does – and this is interesting for us – look at the further plan for the commissioning of the double-stock cars? – From September 1998, double-stock wagons will be used on the East Railway between Vienna and Parndorf, from May 1999 on the Nordbahn between Vienna and Bernhardsthal, from September 1999 on the northwest railway between Vienna and Retz, from May 2000 on the Westbahn – for me as a Lower Austrian, very interesting – between Vienna and St. Valentin and from September 2000 on the Franz-Josefs-Bahn between Vienna and Gmünd and between Vienna and Krems. Ladies and gentlemen! By using double-stock wagons, you can transport 1 200 instead of 700 passengers in a shuttle train at almost the same cost. Nearly 70 percent of the counterparts in Lower Austria will be able to travel with the new rolling material by the year 2000. The purchase of modern and comfortable double-stock wagons thus presents itself as a modern and, above all, almost purely Austrian solution for attracting local transport. As a Lower Austrian, I would also like to inform you of some of the data from the Pendler study presented by the Lower Austrian Chamber of Workers. According to this study, a quarter of Lower Austrian workers must spend one hour a day on the way to work. According to the investigation, of the 290,000 daily commuters, 4 percent of the commuters have to purchase a run-time of more than 90 minutes, 11 per cent a time-out of 60 to 90 minutes, 11 per cent a time-out between 45 and 60 minutes, 18 per cent a time between 30 and 45 minutes and 28 per cent a time between 15 and 30 minutes. Every fourth donor is therefore on the road for more than one and a half hours a day. Compared with the net driving times, the railway was better off on well-developed main lines – south and west railways, high-speed trains to Hollabrunn and Gänserndorf – than the cars. Ladies and gentlemen! Overall, the acquisition of double stock wagons is to be welcomed, as in this context the value added remains in Austria with almost 100 percent and thus Austrian jobs are maintained by producers and suppliers, thus also strengthening the reputation of Austria in the railway industry. I would also like to mention in this connection that it is not only essential to provide excellent tractors, but also that it is important to close gaps when it comes to ensuring the development of an attractive road map for the commuters. I would also like to mention in this connection – and also with regard to the debate on the urgent request at 3 p.m. – that the ÖBB has currently recruited trainees far above the needs of more than 300 apprentices. Ladies and gentlemen! It is important to make the changeover to public transport more attractive with appropriate offers, thereby also reducing the environmental pollution caused by individual transport, and by using modern transport and with an attractive timetable ensuring that one comes from one place to another on time and quickly.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e6994	Mr Ing. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Meschberger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e7016	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! In the context of this report, my colleague Trattner has already pointed out in detail the particular role of Mr Elias and the political influence in the case of HTM, and he has also explained precisely what the Freedom Party is about in the investigation, when assessing the events at that time. We have spent a lot of time in the Committee to clarify the events of that time, in order to examine the information needs in a more detailed manner in August 1995. In any case, these events in August 1995 had quite a lot to do with the sale of the HTM on the one hand and the resignation of the Executive Board on the other. They have also shown what damage to taxpayers can ultimately cause very concrete and pronounced political influence in state enterprises. To this day, we have not been able to find out what really happened between the 4th and the 11th. ==References====External links== September 1995 happened at the time when the improper sale of the HTM was carried out under the known conditions. We believe that the sale of the HTM was more than hasty. To date, Eliash has not been able to really review his ability to take over the HTM with the specified conditions. As has already been confirmed several times, the consequences of this are not yet foreseeable. Mr Lukesch of the ÖVP said: There's only one more thing to do! – We liberals believe that two roles are particularly worthy of investigation: first of all, the role of the consultant Treichl – I can't do this now because of my short speaking time – whose motivation for the influence due to the commission payment is quite clear, and second, the role of today's board of directors and then Supervisory Board Schram. This also bears responsibility for the future of the company. That is why the whole thing is not snowy yesterday, because it is also important for the future that these unexplained things be examined. The then Supervisory Board or the current Management Board, Dr. Schram, has reinforced any doubts about the management of this company by acting in the Court of Auditors Committee. I just want to give a brief explanation of his role. As a Supervisory Board, he was involved in any unanimous decision in the Supervisory Board when it came to the renovation of the HTM. He was there when it was decided that 1.5 billion schilling should be made available for rehabilitation capital. But he was then suddenly a changeover in the hot phase, and he advocated that only more than 300 million schilling be approved for the renovation, although he knew very well that 1.5 billion shilling is necessary so that the renovation can work well. ==References== The Supervisory Board then decided to sell the HTM to Mr. Eliash on the basis of its recommendation. In the Committee, Mr Schram has not been able to answer many questions, such as the specific question of why he ultimately supported only 300 million schilling for the renovation of the HTM, although he knew that it is a pointless waste of money if not 1.5 billion schilling is used for it. Mr Schram has remained guilty of the answer to this question until the end. However, Dr. Schram has not been able to answer the question as to why the issue of 1.5 billion Schilling was very likely subject to an EU review, but it has not been examined whether the 1.2 billion Schilling co-donations have their rights. As has already been said: Mr Schram has also not been able to answer this question in committee. Mr. Dr. Schram, as he said in the committee itself, was also the person from whom Mr. Eliash was preferred and supported as a buyer – that man who still cannot fulfill his obligations. This can't matter to today's board of directors Schram! But really scandalous and hesitant for the taxpayer was Dr. Schram's billing that by deciding to give 1.2 billion schilling gift instead of 1.5 billion schilling rehabilitation potential, the taxpayer saved 300 million schilling. It is true, rather, that the taxpayer has been harmed by the loss of 3.6 billion schilling and by the loss of the company. But such a man is still on AT's board of directors today. Dr. Schram is to be extended this year's Executive Board's contract. We from the Liberals, Mr State Secretary, recommend that you do everything you can to ensure that this extension is not accepted. We will observe very closely whether all the things that point to a joint responsibility of Dr. Schram at this disaster are also examined accordingly before the owners of the Republic of a further extension of the Executive Board contract of Dr. Schram approved this year.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e7080	Mr Silhavy. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for his excellent report. Similarly, 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e7101	Mr President. Appreciate members of the government! Mr President, Dr. Fierce! High house! Mr Wurmitzer has already addressed the chapter on "Multiservices for Teachers" in his contribution to the debate, and it is a good thing that Mrs Bundesminister Gehrer is now present here in the Chamber. It is far from me to go to the level of some of the speakers in the opposition groups and to scandalize things that are not scandalous, but, Mr Wurmitzer, a little bit I must face up to your shawls. The Court of Auditors has objected to the lack of an comprehensible statement as to the level of the intended savings. It is therefore not surprising that the Court of Auditors, contrary to the Ministry's estimates of 400 million Schilling, has come to a 37 million schilling savings resulting from this measure. However, for the sake of fairness, I would like to add that the Court of Auditors' report also states that this 400 million schilling could be achieved through a bundle of different measures. Mrs. Minister! But what has already affected me negatively – and I would also like to say it here – is the fact that you have not been able in the Committee to say to what extent the decline in multiservices has led to more employment among teachers. In all areas where social democrats are responsible, combating unemployment is a top priority. In my view, therefore, it should be considered negative that, Mrs Minister, as regards the scope for which you are responsible, you cannot say to what extent such a measure has enabled concrete employment policy effects to be placed on the fight against the unemployment of teachers. Now also a word for road construction in Styria. Mr Grollitsch's problem is obviously that he, in his opinion, seamlessly adjusts himself to the rule of free movement of Members. Either he has not listened to the comments of my colleague Herb, or he has not understood them. In any event, the fact is that the Landesrat Ressel has finally succeeded in finally striking through the Gordic knots that others have noted well. Because of its initiative, there are now finally concrete measures to address the problems of the population in this region. I would also like to say a few words about employment policy. Mr. Dr. Fiedler! I have already made a statement on this subject in committee. In connection with the problem of awarding according to the best bidder principle mentioned in the Court of Auditors' report on pages 19 to 21 You mentioned five specific points – but only as examples – to be taken into account. If the fight against unemployment is really defined as the highest political objective here in this House, I am surprised that you did not also provide an example of the extent to which calls for tenders or offers should check whether working time arrangements can at all be observed, whether collective contractual remunerations can be fixed in the tenders at all. I therefore ask you - I believe that this is also a task of the Court of Auditors - to see to what extent workers' and workers' rights can actually be guaranteed even in the case of offers. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e7153	The next item is the report by Mr Ing. Nut trees. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e7174	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Mr State Secretary! Mrs. Minister! Minister! High house! That is why I am speaking now because I am missing answers to two questions about the Causa HTM. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! They rightly criticise the lack of review and the insufficient critical attitude of the institutions. However, would it not have been more correct to note that HTM management was incapable of the AT board being completely unprofessionally addressed to the acquisition that it was negligent to present, at the same time as the sale, a restructuring plan that was caused by all the actions of the Minister of Finance, the Supervisory Board and the Executive Board and also by the sale of the HTM to Elias of the Austrian economy? Mr President-in-Office of the Council! No word is lost in this report on the influence of the then chancellor Vranitzky, who, with a conversational support in December 1992, in fact about the Minister of Finance's request, stated that the order of sale must be unanimous. This called for the supervisory councils. Mr President, did you know about this? This report also lacks the assessment of whether, in the event of a refund of aid, the trader is obliged to make an official liability or compensation claim. While it is critical to note the aid, it is striking that the Italian officials responsible for the case at the beginning of the aid review, who always spoke clearly to me about aid, were suddenly replaced by an Austrian official, who from then on was used for the assessment of these causas and who then referred to me as EU-compliant aid, although it was clear that the support and aid measures were not notified. It is therefore to be doubted whether the Commission decision was correct. In conclusion, Mr President of the Court of Auditors, Did you know about that? How do you assess a possible civil liability and compensation claim? What kind of person would such a person have to deal with? Or do you think that the taxpayer would come back to the hand kiss? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e7216	The next item is the speech by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Doppelmüller. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e7238	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Ministers and State Secretary! I would also like to address that point in this Court of Auditors report, which Mr Hofmann has already referred to and highlighted, and I would like to add to his arguments. This is about the sale of Wolfsegg-Traunthaler Kohlenwerks-GesmbH to an earlier managing director. Unfortunately, the Court of Auditors was not able to explain this deal much more because the sale had already been made, but only the Court of Auditors' statements on the outcome of this examination show that it is a pity that it was no longer possible to bring any more light into this – in order to use an expression from the mining – dark tunnels or, better to say, to penetrate deeper into this swamp. It is no question that Managing Director Schabel, the current owner of the WTK, has brought the premature end of the WTK with his profound insider knowledge. Surely, it is now only a costly hobby by Dr. Schabel that he, who was able to buy the WTK by 20 million schilling – its value is about 300 million schilling – now runs the coal mining again. There is no question that people in the region wonder about it: Coal mining, purchase price: 20 million schilling – at a value of at least 300 million schilling. Dr. Schabel is now constantly carrying out basic sales that bring him fat money. We will look at what he actually took in two, three years, because the main business is not the coal he continues to mine per forma, although there is also bacon in the mountain – a coal that can be promoted very cheaply – but the overlying gravel. We will also take a closer look at the novel of the mountain law, because it has almost no conditions to fulfil. The gravel must be mined if you want to go to the coal. Not of about a company located in the district, which belongs to a colleague of ours, has already acquired a property whose traffic value, I hear from the Court of Auditors, is 30 million schilling. I don't know what she paid for it. I give it to her, but I don't give the business to Mr. Schabel. There are so many inconsistencies in there; Mr Hofmann has already shown this. In a phase where there were only 36 employees, three managing directors were employed; the one, Mr. Schabel, was released three months after the notification of his interest in buying had been made full-time. So there were three managing directors, although the mountain director, Dipl.-Ing. Pepal, who was once the managing director, would also have had the matter if it had really been about the four-eye principle. For 36 people, three managing directors – an adventurous story! The Court of Auditors says very clearly: "... however, the alternative of the liquidation by the audited undertaking itself was rejected without sufficiently comprehensible reasons". – The ÖBAG is meant to be. – The Court of Auditors continues to say that the federal government may have a high potential risk in future if the private goes into bankruptcy and the federal government then has to re-enter – a key element in the recovery of old loads. So if there were no special agreements and agreements – the word "economic crime" – then Dr. Schabel can only make little accusations about this deal, because he has exploited his inside knowledge and his managing director's activity as an interest in buying – though in parentheses: shameless. However, the procedure and inability of the well-dominated ÖBAG general director Dipl.-Ing is to be recommended. Erich Staska, who wanted to ruin the WTK quickly and without any particular risk to him, and who obviously didn't care that the Republic of Austria had escaped revenues of about 100 to perhaps 200 million schilling. That, ladies and gentlemen, is the real scandal for me. This failure seems to be unanswered, and it is a weakness in the follow-up to the Court of Auditors' report that no one is likely to deal with the fact that Staska will be paying off its fine references until the end of the ÖBAG, perhaps also a proper supplementary pension, but the Republic will escape twenty million schilling. I ask the appropriate ministers or state secretaries to look at the case again, even to the point where I hear – also confirmed by Staska – that this private will continue to receive mining promotion for its "schnackerl" coal promotion. He has bought by 20 million Schilling – 11 million from his high-end pension rights from the supplementary pension – then he has received loans, and now he apparently receives mining funding. Before – Mr Hofmann mentioned this already – he still bought heavily: Carrying weights, equipment et cetera, anything possible. I think that this is a scandal which, unfortunately, can only be found or confirmed in part by a subsequent examination, and I expect those responsible for the ÖIAG, but also those responsible for the government, to take a close look at this scandalous sale of the Wolfsegg trainers.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e7286	The President of the Court of Auditors is hereby informed. – Please, Dr. This is the list of
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e7307	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! High house! Mr Nußbaumer has addressed to me a number of questions relating to the sale of the HTM. Deputies! You will understand that it is impossible for me to address this abundance of questions in detail. In essence, go Your questions in the direction of who is ultimately responsible for the damage caused or who can be held liable in any other way in the future. In this respect, the official liability law was addressed in particular by you. Deputies! I can tell you the following: As far as the responsibility for the purchase or sale of the HTM and everything related to it is concerned, this is very detailed in the report. What was available to the Court of Auditors in terms of possibilities for exploiting what could be used in the course of the examination was exhausted. Moreover, what does not fall within the jurisdiction of the Court of Auditors' jurisdiction, because it falls within the areas of civil or criminal court, clearly had to be ruled out. Even where there have been events in a sphere which is not subject to the audit competence of the Court of Auditors, a statement by the Court of Auditors clearly had to be kept. In this context, for example, I should just like to remind you that certain events have taken place in Brussels in connection with the Commission's decision, which obviously could not be examined by the Court of Auditors. In so far as there is still uncertainty about the further development of the HTM or the resulting consequences for the Republic of Austria, I should like to point out that criminal proceedings are pending. It is therefore not yet the last word on the matter to come. In addition – and the Court of Auditors has already referred to it more often – it will decide, at the end of the deadlines set by the Commission, what measures will be taken by the European Union bodies, which in turn may have an impact in Austria; the Court of Auditors will not say, but at least may have. All these are uncertainties that have led the Court of Auditors to include itself in the current situation and at the time of the discussion on this report a final assessment of the HTM's sale. However, the Court of Auditors may well have criticised the fact that, in the course of the sale, the sales talks, the sales negotiations, the failed reorganisation efforts, which in its view were not correct and which were to be criticised. – So much, honourable Member, on your questions. In general terms, as the 1996 report of activity has been discussed here in plenary, I can say that I have been very pleased to hear that the Court of Auditors and, above all, its staff have expressed their thanks for the fact that this report has been adopted in this form and that this report has also been dealt with in this form. [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I have also noted with satisfaction that during the discussion it was expressed that the Court of Auditors should not be overshadowed with new, foreign tasks, but that it should be allowed to carry out its actual activity with the resources available to it. And this actual activity is now the audit activity: the audit activity that the Court of Auditors considers not as a self-interest but as a means for the purpose of doing; the audit work which it is carrying out in the interests of improving public administration or in the national business sector to improve corporate governance. It is also thought that such a test for itself represents a virus on a body. However, I would like to add that it should not be used, but that it should be derived from the findings gained in this process, from future aspects which will then benefit public administration and businesses with a forward-looking component. It is essential, and this also sounded very clear in the discussion, that the Court's recommendations should be implemented as quickly as possible. We have achieved in recent years that a number of recommendations have been implemented, and there have also been regular savings. Not all of our recommendations could be implemented. This is something we keep listing them, and we are trying to implement them. And if there can be resistance on the one hand or on the other, all those skeptics and twins must be prevented from achieving many savings by the Court of Auditors' recommendations and that no one who has followed such recommendations would have even made the claim that a recommendation would have been to the detriment of the body under review. On the other hand, the evidence that if we do not follow our recommendations, a more cost-effective outcome, is not available to us at all. The merits of the 1996 activity report are due – I have already mentioned it – to the officials of the Court of Auditors. I am therefore pleased that the discussion also made it clear that it is not only thanks to the officials of the Court of Auditors for their activities, but also that they are respected in the way that it is necessary to maintain their professional status. I mean, there's something else to be done: It is also necessary to link the desire of the Court of Auditors to maintain a new, independent, modern and performance-based right of service and remuneration. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] If the many confessions that have been made to the Court of Auditors today are not just lip recognition, then it is also important to demonstrate these confessions to the servants of the Court of Auditors in a clear, clear form, in order to express the appreciation shown to the servants of the Court of Auditors. I believe that the many millions of people who have been saved, as a result of this 1996 activity report alone, should be able to justify the demands of the staff of the Court of Auditors. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This could also prove that any schilling that benefits the staff of the Court of Auditors is a well-designed schilling.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e7401	Thank you very much, Mr President. The next speaker was Mrs Petrovic. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e7425	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! The President of the Court of Auditors has just expressed his support for a modern right of service and remuneration in connection with the public servants of his home. We from the Greens are very happy to support this demand for a modern right of service and remuneration. However, this seems to be some sort of indirect reference to the fact that the President of the Court of Auditors also believes that the right of employment and remuneration, as it is today, has its weaknesses and difficulties. However, this does not seem to have been in all cases in the past. If I look at a further suggestion from the present activity report on 1996 in relation to the uncompleted suggestions from the previous years, it is said, in connection with the report on the foreign office on page 51 of this Court of Auditors report, that the adoption of a regulation by the Federal Government on the remuneration of foreign officials is encouraged. The Court of Auditors notes in this connection that the necessary agreement between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Finance could not be reached. It is also criticised that housing allowances for the heads of representative authorities abroad are insufficiently regulated. Ladies and gentlemen! So there is a long list of the Court of Auditors' suggestions in this report, and the question arises as to what this looks like in specific cases. We note that there are a number of unexplained circumstances in connection with the presidential election campaign of candidate Dr. Klestil. Ladies and gentlemen! This is also the subject of questions and is mentioned once again in this Court of Auditors report, and I assume that the President of the Court of Auditors also has something to say about this. I hope that he is not exposed to pressure from the EIA. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: But no, Mrs. Petrovic!]] I'd be very pleased! Ladies and gentlemen! In connection with media statements on Dr. Waldner, who as a person is in no way criticized by me, said he had been selected for this election campaign of the Federal Presidential candidate Dr. Klestil. Mr. Dr. Waldner ordered his lawyer and sued a newspaper saying that he was not at all chosen, but it was about a staff loan. In my opinion, this is not covered by law. The establishment plan, the office plan of the federal government, is passed as a law by this House, by Parliament, with the budget, with the vehicle plan. Therefore, there is a need for any exceptions to legal empowerment, and the legal empowerment appears to be valued as no more modern officials' service right in the case of President Fierdel. These are the carnations, that is the unpaid special leave for personal or family reasons, that is the assignment of the service or the out-of-service, when an official, an official himself as a candidate goes into an election campaign. – All of this is not true here. I wonder, and I ask the President of the Court of Auditors: What legal basis does this so-called staff loan have? And if it's a loan, if it's a business, if it's legally possible to complete such a business within the framework of the federal private administration – what I dispute and settle, otherwise we don't need all the human rights – I ask you: What is the benefit to the Republic of Austria? Should it not at least be so that the Republic of Austria and the taxpayers do not have any damage from the whole matter? And if I hear that in the 1992 election campaign only the direct personnel costs were borne by the ÖVP – now they are to be borne by the Industrial Union – then I have to ask: What about social contributions? What about the additional wage costs? What about an interest rate? What about the housing costs? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is a "beautiful" Business for the Republic of Austria, where the one, namely the ÖVP and the black and blue candidate Kletil, derives all the advantages from this business and all disadvantages result from the tax payers. This is not a full cost, ladies and gentlemen. And why should the public hand, why should taxpayers pay part of the election costs for one of several candidates? What legal arrangement is that covered by, ladies and gentlemen? It's illegal! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] According to our modest estimate, at least – data will not be disclosed to us – is a quarter of a million schilling, and I think you have a great need for action to repay this money, and it is fast! [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: Who pays the police in terms of Dr. Wabl?]] I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! If the example is schooling, if it is true that civil service law is something completely non-binding, if you create new institutions beyond the institutions of civil service law such as carnation, approval of special leave, if it is so easy to grant public servants – under quotation marks – then I ask you: What then are the public demands of the EIA for privatisation, for exclusion, because civil service law is so difficult? You have argued this over and over again with many public institutions: We have to break them out, because civil service law is so inflexible – we will then also hold a debate in the context of the cultural debate – but with Dr. Waldner, at the presidential candidate Dr. Klestil, Austrian civil service law has suddenly developed a very strange non-legislative flexibility. That's easy. This was almost a loan at special rates among friends, a special offer from the black and blue foreign office to the black and blue candidates Dr. Klestil – beyond the legal cover. And I would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, how you deal with this issue, namely a candidate who has already taken up the motto: "Power needs control." This House controls execution, and I do not want to hear MEPs of the ÖVP argue if any social democratic head or head of a department would simply be given such personnel with the argument: Perhaps they don't have enough to do anyway, then they can also act as campaign leaders. Ladies and gentlemen! Perhaps even more incidental costs have been incurred. For either the cultural institute in New York is highly staffed – then the question arises whether the establishment plan is to be maintained in this form – or the establishment plan regarding the cultural institute in New York is properly measured – then I ask: Who did the work of Dr. Waldner when he was in use for months as a campaign assistant for Dr. Klestil and is now in use as an election leader? Then the existing and completed work must be divided into the remaining staff. My question to this house: Who then pays these overtimes? So who pays the extra-performance fees? Then I read in the Court of Auditors' report that there seems to be compensation for domestic staff in such foreign offices. Who then paid this in the time when this apartment was either empty or otherwise used or not? Did this pay the ÖVP? Has this been paid for by the Industrial Union? Or did this pay the taxpayers? Ladies and gentlemen! If you do not have the willingness here and today to resolve this matter without any difficulty and to correct the damage you have caused to taxpayers, then the candidate Dr. Kletil should never again take any word of control of power into his mouth, then he should not mediately declare that he is not guilty of anything. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: The fairy tale hour ends!]] He's guilty of something: He's an Enlightenment and he owes money!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e7531	The motion for a resolution that has just been read has been properly tabled, is supported accordingly and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Magistrate has now been reported to speak. Gaßner. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e7558	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! My topic may not be quite as public-sectoral, but, as I believe, it is not less important, namely the partial right of universities. In its report, the Court of Auditors has examined 16 university institutions which have increasingly used – as it said – the possibility of partial jurisdiction. According to the 1996 university report, some 1 000 university institutions have issued 707 units of accounts on partial legal transactions in 1994. Younger figures are not available for the 1996 higher education report, which can also be regarded as an indication of what the Court of Auditors criticises in its report, namely the weaknesses of accounting in these partial transactions. If Mr Lukesch thinks that the scientists are not accountants, this is not enough for me, because it is finally a billion schilling, which in 1994 – on the basis of which it is calculated – has been lurked. However, these billions do not appear to be so powerful when you think that the 1994 budget was 19.3 billion in the university area, of which only 5 percent. These third-party billions are distributed to universities as follows: 32 percent of the technical University of Graz and the Technical University of Vienna, 27 percent of them are from the medical faculties of Vienna, Graz and Innsbruck, at the bottom of this scale, the theologians and the legal scientists are ranked with 0.4 percent. In this context, Bast and Vodrazka set out in the application book "universities and third-party funds" that "the liberality of the legal framework for university third-party funding activities in reverse proportionity is of the current financial importance, especially when considering cooperation with the private sector..." And that's where it says: "The vast majority of this third-party funding comes directly or indirectly from public budgets, only a small part comes from private individuals and economic enterprises." – So much to the scale of third-party funds at universities and where the funds come from. Ladies and gentlemen! In addition to the very poor application of the principle of proper accounting to which the Court of Auditors repeatedly refers, the Court of Auditors' report also states that there is an incorrect understanding of partial jurisdiction. This begins in the case of contracts with project partners and in the personnel sector carried out by department heads and project managers, although only head of the institute are authorised to carry out this external representation. The incorrect view goes further than often presupposes that the members of the institute who have opened these sources of funding may also have these funds alone. In this context, the question arises whether it would not be useful to introduce advisory centres at universities that could do these accounting work much more efficiently and, in view of the criticism of the Court of Auditors, it is important to discuss the question of whether the partial right should continue to be established at the level of the institutions or rather placed at the faculty or overall university level. Finally, ladies and gentlemen: The Court of Auditors notes that there is an incorrect or incorrect allocation of projects involving the FWF, the scientific research fund, and projects relating to the university institutions which are eligible for participation. I see this problem in the fact that the FWF only supports natural persons, that is, individual scientists, but not legal persons, that is, partial institutions. These funds cannot therefore be entered into in the accounts of these institutions, nor can they be used to order and pay personnel for those institutions which are eligible for the right to participate. By amending the Research Funding Act, the FWF could be able to promote part-righteous university institutions and thus also allow for a proper allocation of projects and a clear allocation of third-party resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e7612	Mr Dr Kier is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e7633	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! This change of subject in the final phase was now a bit abrupt, because Mr Petrovic has put an important question in the room, and the following speaker has returned to the agenda, as if there were no problem at all to discuss here. This is because it is a question of whether it would also be a matter for the government parties – and I take both government parties very consciously into account here; the ÖVP might be a little further in this case – at least need for clarification, which was put on the table here in connection with the so-called election aid of Dr. Klestil. There have been quite plausible arguments in the room, there have been called a number of non-refunds concerning Mr. Waldner's service, but apart from a few insulted calls, the matter has not been addressed at all. I mean, this is urgently in need of investigation, because public service law is quite strict here. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Which side is that on? On which side is this in the Court of Auditors' report?]] [[Abg. Wabl: The FPÖ is also suspicious!]] Because – Mr Petrovic has already said it, I repeat it again expressly – either Mr. Dr. Waldner is in the very sense of the word in New York – or he is not indispensable. If he is indispensable, I wonder if he should not be properly moved in at once. He has a deputy. Maybe he'll make it excellent. Or, for example, what about this aspect – which is an additional political question –: Does it make sense to release working directors abroad for election reasons at all – under whatever title? Do you not also damage the institution he has to represent by withdrawing him from there if he is there in the right place, which I put under? Can we really account for the fact that there is a gap here to this extent? And what about the refunding of expenses? In this case, we must actually measure this with economic standards, not with any formalism alone, because that is not a public area for which Mr Waldner has been turned down, that is more than clear. I think I already agree that the Federal Presidency candidate Kletyl is also the President-in-Office of the Federal Republic of Germany at the moment, but Dr. Waldner has not been called to support the President-in-Office of the Federal Republic of Germany, but rather to strengthen the election team of candidate Dr. Klestil, who hopes to become the Federal President again. And that's something completely different, that's not a public task. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] I would therefore expect that the Court of Auditors will not simply try to put this to death and sit down, but that it will be taken seriously, especially since, in the context of the Court of Auditors debate, this has not happened by chance. It is not true that there is nothing. Read it yourself! This is an open claim, an open claim of the Court of Auditors, which is not settled. The fact that it is linked to a further exemption of the same person, which has already been the occasion for this finding, is only all the more regrettable. There is an open question in the Court of Auditors' report, which ultimately dates back to 1992, and now we are writing the year 1998, the open question is not solved, but it is done the same again; only financed by other people. – I think it's highly safe. Therefore, in my perhaps naïve, healing world of the Federal presidential candidates, I imagine the following: Mr. Dr. Klestil will make sure that this question is beyond the formal legal order, because it will probably not be compatible with his official understanding that he can be supported by officials of his former house – he was, after all, the Secretary-General there, and that is not something you hopefully know – and this is still partly at the expense of the Republic of Austria. So I can't imagine that a candidate is going to sit down in the style of clothes. He'll be public. If he does not express himself publicly and does not go into the right lot, then his silence will be a very clear answer. In this case, he then agrees with criticism. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] I think it is this House's business to look after the public on certain issues where the other actors prefer to keep the problem under control. I think that Mr President-in-Office and candidate Dr. Klestil will be well advised, in this case except for the practice that he otherwise liked to practice, to keep problems under the ceiling, to put it aside, because this time it is his election team, directly about the election campaign. Then it's not "only" a few murdered Kurds to which he's silent. I mean, in that case he might confess, maybe he's more sensitive in money. In the pension question he showed us that, as he was also very sensitive. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e7702	Mr Wallner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e7724	Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! With regard to the Court of Auditors' report, I would like to return to the issues that have actually been dealt with in the Committee's meetings, in particular in the field of mining. But first of all, I would like to say to my previous speakers about the opposition: The selection of topics is primarily the opposition. So it is a little surprising if you now address this area here in the plenary debate. I would also like to say, as a representative of social democracy, that our party does not interfere in this ongoing presidential election campaign, since we have not set up candidates and do not want to support them either. [[Ironic cheerfulness at the Liberal Forum and the Greens.]] It should be a match of Klestil – Schmidt – Knoll, which we are not interested in. On the real issues that have also been discussed at the Committee meeting, such as mining. I should like to point out that I am somewhat surprised when I read here that the Court of Auditors reports on the final figures for individual major mining plants. This sounds as if this is already a catchment for Austrian mining, although there are regions that are still closely associated with the farms economically and socially. I also reject the Court of Auditors' request that mining should no longer have a stock. I am grateful that the representative of the ÖIAG, Director-General Becker, has clearly stated in the Committee that, at any resolution, the six members of the holding company would be transferred to the ÖIAG. Ladies and gentlemen! There is also no mention of the further development of mining after 2002 in this Court of Auditors report, no word that there is a stock of 33 million tonnes of ore on the Styrian Erzberg, with current annual production being 1.6 to 1.8 million tonnes. So, theoretically, it would be possible to break up further over the next 20 years. I would like to inform you that mining at the Styrian Erzberg is currently very successful. In 1997, more than 300 million Schilling sales and an annual surplus of 3.1 million were achieved; in the previous year, that is, in 1996, there were 5 million Schilling. Modernisation is ongoing and investment is made in modern technology. Above all, 260 people are employed in a very weak region. I would like to stress this because the city of Eisenerz, the region of Eisenerz, is also the district of Leoben in the Upper Styria of that district which is most threatened with emigration. It is estimated that by 2031 more than 70,000 inhabitants will live in this region than 50,000 people in 2030. I would therefore ask that these developments be taken into account at least in the context of such examinations. I would like to conclude by thanking the Mining Managers for having stated in a clear opinion that it will continue to be possible to operate ore mining in iron ore after the year 2000, i.e. after the expiry of the previous supply agreement with StahlAG. Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e7778	Mr Magistrate has also been reported to speak. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e7821	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! In contrast to the speakers of the Liberal and Green Group, I would like to look at the Court of Auditors' activity report for 1996 – and return from this "outing" to the Federal Presidential election campaign to the sober reality. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: How was the National Bank?]] [[Abg. Wabl: You don't need control when it comes to blues!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address two things in the following, namely the Wiener Hafen and the Wiener Betrieb- and BaugesmbH Wibeba. In relation to the port of Vienna, the Court of Auditors has found or recommended that the three companies listed in social law, all of which deal with the business of the port of Vienna, should be merged, merged in order to allow for significant cost savings and more efficient management of these three companies. It was interesting that the two gentlemen who had been invited to the Court of Auditors meeting as the manager of the Vienna port company, Mag. Edinger and Dr. Stadler, could not plausibly justify why they did not follow the request or recommendation of the Court of Auditors. It has only been found that this is neither necessary nor objective, and this has also removed the knowledge of the Vienna Control Office, which has come to the same conclusion as the Court of Auditors. This procedure was not plausible. It has been said that one simply does not want to. The Court of Auditors may write what it wants: It's not interested in these reigns. From this point of view, I would like to call on all those responsible in the Federal Government and in the municipality of Vienna to force management to take the Court of Auditors' recommendations seriously. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] For where does such action lead in the final consequence? – The Court of Auditors writes anything, and as a result, it does not affect anyone anymore, no one feels affected by it. It can't be! Further: The Court of Auditors has said critically that problems have arisen in the development of new business areas in the area of the port of Vienna. The existing operational expansion efforts are inadequate, poor in their results; further, they may be limited to the core business in the future. This too is to be underlined and welcomed from my side. There would have been a lot of questions left unanswered. But the most important question, whose answer to the question of management has remained due, is: How did the transaction in connection with the sale of properties to the Dokows actually work? There has been no statement at all, just silence in the forest. With regard to another point, namely the Wibeba, silence was even greater, ladies and gentlemen. For when we were sitting in committee, none of the information subjects wanted to give any statement to that effect. Each of them has withdrawn from the following position: Yes, I was not in the management of WIBEBA at that time; I can't say anything about the serious accusations made by the Court of Auditors – until, after all, one or the other has slowly found himself ready for a statement. Ladies and gentlemen! Let me briefly sum up: The Court of Auditors' assessment of WIBEBA is an expression of a negative moral image, a moral picture of unrestricted enrichment and undue influence, of packaging and domination of the State over the private sector. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Inhibited was seized in the cash register. This is proof of the shattering in this state, ladies and gentlemen, because, basically, this audit report confirms our repeated request that there should be an investigation committee to review close-to-state banks. [[Abg. Wabl: Why don't you tell the President and the National Bank?]] Ladies and gentlemen! We didn't forget Praschak's affair. In the present case, it is a subsidiary of Bank Austria, and therefore it would be very appropriate to examine the matter thoroughly, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is a really inappropriate affair that goes down to the attempted signature forgery. You've read it all. I mean, ladies and gentlemen, this moral image speaks for itself. That is why we understand it if we do not agree with the Court of Auditors' report, but not because we believe that the Court of Auditors has worked badly, but because we simply cannot and do not want to take note of the conditions that the Court of Auditors has to reveal.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e7912	Mrs Magnette is also speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Stoisits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e7933	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! I was originally not on the floor to comment on this debate, but Mr Firlinger has very motivated me to speak on the point of the Court of Auditors' report. Mr Firlinger has spoken about the filtration, the inadequacy and the conditions that the Court of Auditors has revealed, and also about how corrupt this state is, which interconnected. Here, Mr Firlinger, I am really right to say: There is filtration, inhibition and in some way a head-in-the-sand stick. This is true in many areas, and the Greens keep trying to put their fingers in this wound, just as thankfully another opposition party in the National Council, namely the Freeman, does. You, Mr Firlinger, have already done so as a Liberal, and you are now also doing so as a liberal. That is why I am particularly surprised that you are so silent, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, when it comes to filtation, disability and the detection of abuses, about damage to taxpayers in connection with the candidate of the blue-black candidate for the office of the Federal President, Dr. Kletil. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] There you are suddenly completely silent, so to speak filthy town and have nothing to say. But, ladies and gentlemen, I don't even wonder. I still have the pictures in mind when Mr Klestil received the opposition leader Dr. Haider in order to be washed up by him in a painful matter, with regard to his conduct in the Causa Kurden-Morden. This has already been announced – not only has it been announced, but it has already become visible where the thing is developing. The candidate of Haider's graces, today's discussion and the legitimate statements that exist on the part of the Court of Auditors show quite clearly where the wind blows. Ladies and gentlemen! Not that you believe that my colleague, Mr Firlinger, can really move me. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] But if you really appeal to me, these are the colleagues from the Social Democracy. The colleague Wallner, whom I appreciate, goes to the speaker's desk and says: No, the election campaign does not interest the SPÖ; we do not interfere in the election campaign. Mr Wallner, you are a member of the Court of Auditors, unlike me. Are you not interested in where Austrian citizens escape money? Do not be interested in why there is no loud demand for maladministration, so that you can at least comment and say: No, the money belongs to the citizens, and at least we want to give it back. There's nothing in there! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] A mistake can happen once, and a mistake that happened years ago can be admitted. One recognizes him and then makes the attempt of reparation. Sometimes it succeeds, sometimes it fails. That, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, is what is now the order of the hour – not how you stand as president or candidate for election Dr. Klestil. Please, there is the election secret in Austria. No one is going to be Your consciences want to explore how you stand as the Federal President. Not at all. I'm talking about learning what you're saying about these machinations. What has been transported to the media by colleagues of the House – and not only has been researched by greens – smells like abuse of office when you look at who the beneficiaries are. Here is a case in which there is only one benefit or a victim: The injured is the Republic of Austria, the beneficial is the elected President Dr. Kletil respectfully the ÖVP in the past or the industrial association at the moment. The Austrian taxpayers are affected. That's what it's all about! You can't deal with the Lapidar sentence: We don't get involved in the election campaign! Get out of the affair. There must be on the table how to behave if the coalition partner gets his fingers dirty. – But this is a truth to evangelism that I cannot accept! That is why I call on you to submit your opinion.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e8017	No one is reporting on this. That concludes the debate. There is no final word from the rapporteur. We are entering the voting procedure, and I ask the honourable Members to take their place. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Auditors to take note of this report III-106 of the supplements. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. The report has been taken note of. We shall also proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Petrovic and comrades concerning state financing of the election office of the Federal Presidency candidate Dr. Klestil. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to join this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. 2. Point Report of the Cultural Committee on the 1996 Cultural Report of the Federal Government (III-110/1082 of the Supplements) 3rd. Point Report of the Cultural Committee on the Government Template (690 of the Supplements): Federal Law implementing Directive 93/7/EEC on the return of cultural goods unlawfully transferred from the territory of a Member State of the European Community (1104 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e8093	We now come to points 2 and 3 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are therefore immediately entering the debate. Mr Grollitsch is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e8120	Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! "The Cultural Report has been published: Does anyone laugh?", wrote "The Press" in December 1997 and thus meant the lack of an up-to-date reference to the date of publication. The cultural report is being debated: Anyone flee here?, I'll add. The complex catalogue of culture, which we hold in our hands, Mrs. Federal Minister, has, as it were, kept apart from the fates of the cultural report; it is really very representative. He testifies to well-off manufacturers. We are grateful to keep such a beautiful catalog in hand. However, the question arises whether the effort is in relation to the result. Nevertheless: The reports and figures contained therein are positive. It is to be respected that the frequency of visitors at cultural events increased by 19 percent in 1996; this is gratifying – even if you know that two thirds of them are due to the large number of visitors at the Monet exhibition. But that's not the end of the gratification at all. It is to be accepted that the budget has been increased by 1.9 percent. The question of improving this budget, by making use of, for example, toto drugs, as mentioned by two political groups, I would just like to mention, as a sports spokesperson of the liberals, and at the same time express myself against it. The lack of actuality of the catalogue of cultures leads to the Committee's debate not primarily on this report but on the reconstruction of the Federal Museums. Scientific institutions with full legal personality have promised us, Mrs. Federal Minister. The Fund idea, which was quite positively described by a Dutch representative, has not been examined. So, scientific institutions with full legal personality. Why scientific institutions? – Perhaps to discourage the objection of GÖD- "Boß" Stegmüller, who fears that science will in future be in favour of "disneylandization", as he called it, in the background. Be the rum: They also promise that there will be no intervention in existing service conditions. That may be good. However, another question is how this can be reconciled with the ability to do so. The concern of 1 000 employees has not been taken into account during the preparatory work on this draft. This has been complained of, and the scepticism of the directors has allowed us to feel close to the committee. Their scepticism, especially with regard to the Treaties – I do not assume that their main purpose is their own contracts or special contracts – is a great concern there. If we are talking about special contracts in the field of culture, then the just unapproachable case of the self-proclaimed Austrian cultural ambassador with diplomat status falls into my mind in Styria, namely Mrs Annelie "Hoch-Konrad" – pardon, which is a Freudsian promise, the lady is called "Hoch-Konrad". But let us perhaps stick to the more appropriate designation "Hoch-Korad"; the Ambassador may forgive me. In any case, if one takes a closer look at their special contracts and finds out that the maintenance of special contracts also plays a role with the directors of the Federal Museums, then I fear that the implementation of your will will will not be quite uncomplicated. If you ask why it is going to be distributed why a new form of organization is to be created, you will receive the following answer: These are neither savings nor privatisation or, in some way, child care. – Of course, we liberals would have understood savings, we would also understand privatisation very well, and you would have our support, but: That's not the case! What is it then, you ask yourself? – Perhaps a comment from Mr Cap in an "Press" interview, which he conducted with Hans Haider last December. There he was asked why he had commissioned a study on a reform of the Federal Museums with Mr Josef Kirchberger, the Deputy Federal Theatre Secretary, who is also in charge of the SPÖ Party Culture Association. – To this end, Mr Cap commented: The confusion, the lack of self-understanding, the exhibition strategies are not in order. He misses a plan that orders everything. Yes, plan economy, Dr. Cap, four-year plan. As this corresponds to partial autonomy and full justice, you should explain to us already. A certain light is already on us in this context. It has the ÖVP, it has dealt with Mrs. Gehrer – obviously about an order from the Socialists and a study that we cannot access – and has once again led to a form of sham privatisation, as we are used to from this point of view. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e8193	Mr Horak has also been mentioned. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e8214	Mr President. My name's not Horak yet. This may be the case when the liberals come to the government. But at the moment it's not ready. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. The date of publication mentioned by my previous speaker was also discussed in the Committee on Culture. I must say, of course, that this is a problem, a problem of the cultural report and, of course, of the art report. For Parliament, we say so, the idea of getting these reports a little earlier would be more tempting. The data are available at the end of January. I could imagine that if we put pressure on that, we could get it all back in time. The figures have been mentioned in part. In principle, the present cultural report shows, in a very comprehensible and visually impressive way, – even if my previous speaker sees it differently – the successes that the museums have grown from the partial right: There is more room and more initiative. People trust more, and somehow the personal ingenium is stimulated to the business. This is a partial right and, of course, a sample galop for full justice. We also welcome the increase in revenue, which we have already heard. It would also be worth mentioning that, of course, the income from the partial right only made possible to the museums some exhibitions – and essential exhibitions – that would not have been possible without partial jurisdiction. The only logical step – I have already said that – would be justice. As we have heard in the cultural hearing, there is great agreement in this regard. My previous speaker has heard of a rejection of the proposals under discussion, which he even felt at first hand. – I don’t know where he was close by, I’ve experienced it differently. I've got a lot of approval from the directors. One exception is the representative of the Natural History Museum, who would have liked to continue the present state. In connection with this distribution, it seems important to me to be the different identities of these museums, which are based on some centuries-old collections. Of course, they are also very much different from the target direction and the target definition. Of course, the wealth of the ideas of the individual museum directors, the Custodians, the research results and the collective activity carried out by the workforce will carry these individual identities and will be documented in exhibitions and scientific works. In my opinion, the draft law, documented in the Committee on Culture, derives exactly from it. The final goal is self-management, liberation from the state camera list and – you should say it here as well – a multi-year budget for such institutions, which has already been successful in Vienna. It would be a laugh if it wouldn't be possible to do the covenant too. This, of course, concerns not only the theatre, but also the federal museums. I believe that a commitment to a multiannual work and budget programme for organisers in this area, in which the contracts go far beyond one or two years, should be set up and also ensure the budgetary security of these institutions. It is true that it has not been a matter of savings in the preparation of this bill. It was, of course, about greater efficiency and also about greater scope for action. In this context, I would like to refer to the announced evaluation programme for the Federal Museums, which is to be drawn up in the scientific field in the near future. I think the Minister should be encouraged and said that this could be continued quietly in other areas, on the one hand, in order to have a debate for Parliament and on the other hand also to be able to read out the course of action and results. The path that the Federal Museums take has also found its confirmation in a Europe-wide atypical visitor growth. In this context, I mention the MAK, the Austrian Gallery – which has already been said – with the Monet exhibition, as well as the Natural History Museum and the National History Museum. This report also shows that the museums take account of new developments in the electronic sector. I like your presentation on the Internet. I would have liked to see more public response on the Internet in the report. I assume this may be taken into account in the next report. The Albertina, which participates in the EU's support programme for the development of new software, is a key element in the development of digital stocks. The Austrian National Library is also mentioned. I remember here the digital library that is being created to provide users with a comprehensive library program as far as possible. However, I believe that this would be a task for the Committee on Culture. These were not yet available in the Media Act 1981 for logical reasons – there were no media in the electronic field at that time. If the National Library is to be the memory of the nation, it must be made by law that there is a possibility beyond the voluntary delivery of the copies. I believe that there would be a need for action in this area and not just a cause for joy for the responsible director, Marte, on such a change of law. 100 million schillings more in the area of monument protection are a reparation for the cuts in recent years, which have occurred especially in a very essential area, namely the protection of monuments. It would also be important to draw attention to Austria's participation in the EU's cultural heritage funding programme, which will take place in the pilot project on the Raphael action programme with eight projects that are different regionally distributed. An essential objective and an essential task of the new President of the Monumental Office will be to lead this institution into partial justice. I've already announced to him conversations from my side. I hope that Mr Cap will also take part in this so that we can perhaps come to a common consensus here and move it forward in some way. It seems essential to me – especially because the protection of the monument is a restriction on property rights, and everyone who owns an old house knows what he is born there and what he himself imposes – that a tax re-evaluation is discussed seriously. That too would be a task for the Committee on Culture. We should really work together with the ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry of Finance to deal with this issue. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] To implement the EU Directives, a few words: Directive 93/7/EEC should be effective in reducing cultural property unlawfully exported from one EU country to another. The condition is that it is cultural goods that can be found under a list of national cultural goods listed in the Annex to the Act, which corresponds to the public interest in Austria. This is not a trade restriction. Instead, the illegal act was adopted before EU law came into force. The EU Directive – and that is what I should like to say – dates back to 1993. ==References====External links==* Official website ==References====External links==* Official website January 1994 Part of the Austrian legal order. It has been mentioned more often that other countries hesitate to do so, including Luxembourg. However, Luxembourg has already adopted the Directives. Italy will approve it shortly, and Germany – I have the EU's complaint here – will also change it. The positions that Germany represents in this process – among other things due to the election campaign – will probably not "scratch" there. That is why I ask you to agree to this law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e8305	Mrs Motter is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e8327	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The reason for today's debate around the Federal Museums is the 1996 Cultural Report, which was published on 18 November 1996. As mentioned by my previous speakers, it was discussed in the Committee on Culture. This Committee meeting also provided the framework for a large-scale expert hearing on the subject of the state of the Federal Museums. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Where is the Chairperson of the Cultural Committee?]] Mr. Klubobmann Khol! I was also present at this committee meeting. It's up to us, as I mean, to decide who's coming to the speaker's desk. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Where's the chairman?]] Again on this expert hearing "The location of the Federal Museums". I think it is very important to look at it more closely even today from our point of view. As part of this hearing, the first draft of the Federal Ministry of Education and Cultural Affairs was discussed extremely controversially. While most of the loaded museum directors agreed with the basic direction the design sets out, many important details were raised, which could not be answered. Mr Morak! They said they all agreed. I must say that I did not get this impression. [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: I already do!]] At least in the second speech of the directors, only one for all has spoken. I was also sitting there and I heard a certain murmuring of some who did not agree with everything. Please take note! [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: What were the open questions?]] There were a lot of detailed questions, I'll call them to you now. The Minister also stressed that the Committee's suggestions from the Committee on Culture should in all cases be included in the second draft. [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: Speak for her!]] So it wasn't quite clear if even the woman minister said she was thinking about it. I still have the rightful hope, Mrs Minister, that you will do the same. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Is Positive!]] Why are you so nervous? - I know why. I'll tell you, too. I consider the criticism of the Dutch museum expert working as a management director at the Van Gogh Museum in Amsterdam to be particularly important – and that is already a point in which you will certainly react very sensitively. In his statement, he said, among other things, that in the Netherlands – I quote – the possibility of a public legal person being excluded from the museums was excluded, since in this case the responsibility for operational management remained entirely with the Minister, which was not intended. - Quote. For this reason, the Foundation model was chosen in Holland, which he stressed – and I am right in giving all the twins – that the Dutch Foundation model is not directly comparable to the possibilities offered by the Austrian private foundation model. [[Abg. Böhacker: Where are the differences?]] If you had come to committee, you would have heard it. It was discussed there. It would now be my speaking time if I could explain all this to you. Ladies and gentlemen! Because the planned acquisition of justice or the dissemination of the Federal Museums means a milestone in the history of the development of the Austrian Federal Museums, it is particularly important, in our opinion, to look closely at internationally successful models, such as the Dutch one. After six years of public discussion, a form of foundation has been chosen in the Netherlands with Supervisory Board whose powers are comparable to those of the Supervisory Board of an AG. The Director is responsible for the design of the Supervisory Board of the Netherlands and thus for the management of the Foundation. He represents these judicial and extrajudicial. The Supervisory Board shall appoint and appoint the Director. With the Supervisory Board, the museum has its own superior, representing only the interests of the museum, while under the previous arrangement of ministers the interests of all cultural institutions had to be taken into account, as is the case in Austria. This path is not targeting. We have seen that and therefore we want something new. The Supervisory Board is an organ of the museum. In the Statute of the Foundation, the Supervisory Board shall be responsible for the interests of the Foundation and not for the interests of the Minister. In addition, in order to stress this provision, it is laid down that officials for whom the Minister is politically responsible cannot be appointed to the Supervisory Board. Further: In order to guarantee ministerial responsibility, the Dutch State has defined some powers in the Foundation's Statutes. Firstly, changes in the statutes, in particular those relating to objectives and administrative structures, require the approval of the Minister. Secondly, the members of the Supervisory Board will be appointed by the Minister. Thirdly, the Minister must be heard in the appointment and appointment of the Director. Fourthly, the foundation needs the approval of the Minister. – I believe that these are enough ways to get involved as the first political body. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Is this the Austrian way?]] Ladies and gentlemen! The first major difference between the Dutch model and the design of the Ministry of Education and Cultural Affairs is the following: While there has been a real breakdown in the Netherlands, the aim here is only to achieve full justice with a view to ensuring that the ministry continues to have a significant influence. Andries Mulde says in a newspaper interview: The Austrian State does not want to give up its influence, it wants to come to a solution too quickly. This is not good because the collections are too different, and no people from the ministry should sit in the board of trustees. – Quotes of this experienced specialist. In the opinion of the Liberal Forum, the idea of the Dutch path and the massive criticism of the museum expert are the main results of the hearing of the Parliamentary Cultural Committee on the distribution debate of the Federal Museums. Another very important result in the debate is the position of the EIA, the government partner of the SPÖ. While you, Mrs Bundesminister, only want to achieve the achievement of justice, the SPÖ is based on an actual breakdown, as with the Bundestheaters, one of the more similar forms to the GesmbH. This is obviously the reason why the ÖVP is trying to block the distribution of the Bundestheater in the intended form. You have not yet been able to contribute to the contentious arguments. You don't know exactly, I know what it's about you – to maintain power. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: What do the Liberals want?]] Ladies and gentlemen! We now face the situation that, instead of proper disseminating, only the conversion into federal institutions should be possible. This seems to me to be a half-and-so-satisfying solution. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] A body which, among other things, should also consist of the cultural speakers of the parties represented in the main committee of the National Council, makes no sense at all, even if one takes note of the often repeated demand for de-party politicization of the cultural policy of the Council of Culture of Peter Marboe. There is a split tongue here, because the party political influence at all costs seems to be once again the only political objective of the ÖVP under the leadership of Klubobmann Khol. We Liberals believe that it is in no way useful to block the urgently needed reforms both in the Federal Theatre and in the Federal Museum area from party-politically motivated reasons. As a representative of the Liberal Forum, as the mutual response points out, I encourage the early convening of a cultural committee meeting, whose aim should be to highlight the newly emerging arguments or models of the ÖVP on the issue of the exclusion of the Bundestheater or to consider the advantages and disadvantages of the SPÖ model. Since the Federal Theatre Report 1996/97 is on the table, there is an ideal platform for discussion. [[Abg. Zweytick: Who is Chairman of the Cultural Committee?]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Who is the chairman of the Cultural Committee? Isn't it Schmidt? Then she can call him at any time! Tell Schmidt!]] But all other parties must agree. This seems to us to be the only sensible way to leave this procedural situation and continue the constructive path taken together – not to provide any party with electoral campaign ammunition for the next National Council elections, but to create the appropriate legal basis for the continuation of our main cultural institutions for the next decades. Mr Klubobmann Stadler! In the past, your staff member came with the request to me – you ask the chairman of the Health Committee – to support something in order to get it on the agenda. You therefore know exactly what a chairman has to say in a large government coalition. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: If we have your support, nothing can happen!]] The 1996 Cultural Report states that although it provides an overview of the visitor and budget development of the individual museums or the National Library, there is still no museum policy target. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You're always going to kneel if Schmidt isn't there!]] The central question, which a museum of the future should actually represent, i.e. the question of the future identity of the individual museums, remains guilty, Mrs. Minister, this year too. As a responsible minister, however, we must ask ourselves the question: Where should our federal museums develop? Should they become tourist attractions? Should they be depots or classically defined educational institutions? – One has to ask these questions, for every single museum, because there can be no meaningful museum policy without clearly defined targets. To concentrate only on the budget, which is undoubtedly the basic condition, is clearly not enough for us Liberals. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I am now coming to the Federal Act implementing Directive 93/7/EEC on the return of cultural goods unlawfully transferred from the territory of a Member State of the EC. The Committee on Culture has also dealt intensively with this matter. The implementation of this Directive will perfect the Austrian Export Prohibition Act, since national cultural goods which have been unlawfully transported abroad can now be recovered, but in the future every buyer and every buyer who has acquired a cultural property in the EU foreign country must fear that it will be recovered from the country of origin. Although the financial damage, if the duty of care was not violated, will be settled, not the ideal value, which is not possible at all. I consider this integration of the EU Directive to be a evasion of the § 367 ABGB of the Principle of Good faith law. That is to say, the implementation of this directive, which has its advantages, is a massive part of our civil law, and the resulting legal disputes cannot yet be abandoned. That is why the Liberal Forum considers it far more appropriate to wait for the directive to be implemented until the European Court of Justice has dealt with and decided on the Commission’s action against Germany. We also think it useful to have a serious debate on the existing export ban law, because the German list system appears to us to be a much more transparent and modern model that excludes any kind of arbitrariness from the outset. We believe that such a debate would also be best suited to the Parliamentary Committee on Culture, and I would use this opportunity, also in the spirit of the speaker of the Committee, to invite all parties to give their consent to an expert hearing in this regard. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! For a short time it seemed as if movement had finally come into the arts and culture sector, as if it was possible to discuss obsolete structures at a content level and to think together about new ways. – Be this now the Bundestheater, the Federal Museums or the various Foundation models that should make the award of project funding more transparent and effective. I actually had the impression that the typical Austrian way of over-disputing and covering at least in the arts and culture area will leave slowly but safely. The events and words, especially from the ÖVP and in particular from Klubobmann Khol, have, however, shown that this was obviously a false belief. Instead of making urgent reforms meaningful, each approach is now again suffocated in the germ – not due to concerns of content, but due to party-politically motivated considerations and the fear that the political opponent could even secure an influence that can no longer be corrected after the next elections. Unfortunately, Mr Morak is not present, but I assume it will be addressed to him. I consider him a cultural speaker of the ÖVP to be a good cultural speaker, but if he continues to carry this course, I mean, it is a wrong path. It certainly does not render this country a good service and does not lead our most important cultural institutions to the next millennium.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e8554	Mr Cap has been reported to speak. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e8576	Mr President. High house! I do not know that I too am not quite happy that Mr Klubobmann Khol has suddenly launched an initiative and has come to the idea that the Bundestheater could also be put into a model of institution developed by him or by Mr Morak. From the construction there may be a risk that it will lead to a re-party politicization. The fact that this is now being used as a means of printing in the discussion, namely whether the museums should be divided into a scientific institution or a GesmbH model, or whether one should perhaps take on the Dutch model of the foundation, has also not deserved the woman Federal Minister, who is really trying to find a solution in an objective debate and who, like all of us, is now confronted with a kind of dynamization, with a kind of junkimization that the matter itself does not serve. I would be interested in what Mrs. Minister means. I also do not understand that the sports spokesperson of the FPÖ, Mr Grollitsch, thinks that only sport should receive the lotto media, but art and culture should not receive anything from this area. It's so obscene to me. In Great Britain, this is an essential aspect of art and culture. Those who know the extent of these means should, in fact, take a different view if they are already talking about art and culture. Otherwise, he should report to the sports debate, where he can act for an increase in the sports budget, with whatever means. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] On the report itself: We have already brought this into the debate in the Committee on Culture. Of course, a principle debate, a target discussion on the identities of the museums should be held here. It would also be interesting – not to precipitate – to get to know the Ministry's opinion on the museum area more closely for the next ten years, as the Ministry's Strategy Department – if there is such a department in this sense – will present the development of the Austrian museums in the future. This is a very essential aspect because it is about elements of national identity. This is an essential aspect because it is also increasingly becoming an economic factor, not just about reciprocity. This is an essential aspect, because competition is positive, but a certain division of work between museums is necessary and meaningful. This is a necessary requirement because the operation of the museums must also be made more modern and experience-oriented. . I think that the debate should also go in this direction, and not just the question, which is important enough, should focus on how to develop as optimally as possible from the partial right to full justice. These questions remain open. The Minister has promised that the entrance will be found. This was the result of the debate in the Committee on Culture, and we are convinced that this will also take place in essential areas. This concerns, for example, the task of the curatorium or the design of the time sequence of the museum regulations with the new legal form. But there are also many open questions that concern the staff simply and simply. So it is not only about whether it will be a GesmbH model or a scientific institution, but also about what the legal status of those working there will look like in the future. Many other questions are still open, which in the end still need to be clarified. It is indeed gratifying – that has already been said by some previous speakers – that an evaluation of scientific success should also take place. For if these are to be scientific institutions, it would also be important for those who propose this model to find out what has been the actual scientific output. However, I am still in favour of continuing to compare, deal with and deal with these three models discussed in the debate in the Committee on Culture. Finally, to the report itself: I think it is basically a good report. Individual parts of the reports are very different with regard to their breakdown and their ability to express themselves, which should be a little more unified. But you can get an overview, and this is very informative. I would have been interested in the following: On page 20, under "Museum Square", there is an indication of how to imagine this in the future. It means here: Art and cultural mediation for all ages and social target groups instead of commercial tourism rumble. – This is music in my ears. I like what's being read here. I may then, on one of the next occasions, address the question to you, which could actually be meant. I would like a more detailed description of what is happening in the context of the Natural History Museum at the Donauen National Park Institute, in the Academy with external support in Petronell. I also feel that this is a positive and good idea, but I would be interested in the following: What happens in this respect now, what kind of operation is going on there, what is going on? To the Natural History Museum itself: If it is as planned as it stands here, namely as a cultural-historical phenomenon and total work of art, then it is indeed right if you leave it as it is.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e8641	Mrs Gehrer has been reported to speak. By saying that a urgent request is to be made at 3 p.m., I am very pleased to give you the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e8662	Mr President. High house! On the question of legal form, I would like to clarify the following: This whole discussion is about achieving new goals. The objectives are as follows: more independence, a new thought, more responsibility to be able to work for several years out of cameraistics, budgeting over several years. It is also about being able to have private economic revenues, it is about making plans more independently over several years. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I think these objectives can be achieved in different ways. The task of serious politics is to examine all the ways and then choose those who have the smallest red tape that devours the least means for red tape. So I don't think it's particularly targeting to start GesmbH's, make a holding over it again and complicate everything. I believe that we must try to achieve our objectives easily, clearly transparently and with clear responsibilities. To this end, I also note the following: If we always consider Holland to be an example, then all those who know the conditions there know that the state is spending significantly less money on the museums than Austria and that if you have many tax funds to manage, you cannot simply give up your responsibility. The responsibility for 1.7 billion schilling of tax money for our museums, for the Federal Monument, I cannot simply delegate to anyone else. I also want to continue to shoulder this responsibility. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If, in an objective discussion, it turns out that the model of the institutions is a suitable model, with little bureaucratic effort, with administrative savings, without new additional administrations, then we must all work together to implement this model of establishment. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! To the museum concept: I do not mean that it is a political task to tell each museum what it is and what it is allowed to do; one is only with modern art, the other only with old art. There will always be certain overlaps. If you ask what a museum should be, tourist attraction or dusty place where older things are stored, I will tell you that the answer is quite simple. The law says: collect, preserve, open, research and exhibit. – The quality of a museum is certainly not measured by the number of visitors, but it is also not forbidden to have many visitors. That's no contrary evidence either. I therefore believe that a mixture in the objective is the right one. In addition, I have already explained that it seems to me to be a necessary challenge to create a 2010 museum concept. We have already, together with the directors, been thinking about the basics. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] This 2010 museum concept will include: First: The tasks required by law must be ensured by adequate financing. Secondly, The museums must be given a new legal form in order to be more independent. Thirdly, Evaluations in different areas are necessary. There is agreement that we are starting to evaluate scientific work. Fourth: Beyond the tasks set out in the law, it is necessary to keep the audience in constant contact with the cultural objects with appropriate events, to reach out to people motivated to visit the museums. Fifth, you open a bottle The museum educational aspect is particularly important. Youth must be addressed. Sixteenths: Cooperation with schools must be stepped up. Seventeenths: The design of the exhibits of the museums must be subject to an examination. The modern findings that exemplaric exhibitions bring more than encyclopaedic must be taken into account. Eighth: International cooperation, especially in the field of exhibition, must be strengthened. Nineteenths: In particular, cultural contacts with the countries of Central and Eastern Europe should be deepened, and assistance should be given in particular in the field of cultural management. Tenths: Modern media have to find entrances in all areas, including the museums. These are first proposals for common objectives. We will continue to work on it. The next cultural report, the third cultural report, will show in these objectives what the individual museums have prepared for it and what they imagine to do with it. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the presentation of the cultural report is always a good opportunity to show what is being done in the cultural field and that something is going on. I would like to thank all those who are working intensively on this report.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e8775	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister. I assume that we do not have to use the one minute that is still missing until 3 p.m. – except, Mrs Petrovic, you want to start your speech and be interrupted in a minute. - That's not the case. I am interrupting the negotiations on points 2 and 3 of the agenda so that the required debate on a urgent question can take place at 3 p.m. in accordance with Article 93 of the Rules of Procedure. Request for urgent procedure Mr Reinhart Gauggund Comrades to the Federal Chancellor on the German Federal Government's employment and teaching policy (3956/J)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e8811	As this urgent request has now been distributed to all Members, a reading by the writer is not necessary. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e9238	I can give the floor to Mr Gaugg on the grounds of the urgent question. The speaking time is 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e9260	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! I personally very much regret that there is not a Federal Chancellor's climate here in Parliament. But we have been used to it lately, that he always, when it comes to creating jobs, appears fully to the public and articulates these promises, only when it comes to solutions, is nothing to be seen of him. The path of climate is paved with empty promises. This was started, for example, at a municipal Federal Assembly on 16 May. In the autumn of this year, no 15-year-old, no 15-year-old, who is looking for an apprenticeship, will remain on the road. ==References====External links== February 1997 at a special session in Parliament – an extract from it which is significant for the mentality of this federal government, which is unable to create jobs in this Republic: There is additional money for research, development and innovation. Over the next three years, the Federal Government has committed itself to providing around 1 billion schillings for the promotion of technology, each of which will be the subject of privatisation proceeds. - Nothing has come, nothing! At that time, people were proud to win Mr. Hochleitner and Professor Schmidt as project manager, but no one is interested in it today. One speaks of the waves of founders; one speaks of technology offensives, one speaks of a relief from work factor, and yesterday's budget speech by the Minister of Finance was once again a list of supposedly completed problems: The trade regulation has been liberalised, an administrative reform has been launched, the Telekom area has been deregulated, the electricity market opening becomes reality in 1999, pension systems have been changed, a technology and export offensive has begun, companies have become state-owned and are privatized. – This is like a praise to the activity of this Federal Government. It may already be that you believe all these statements in Brussels; only here in Austria they do not believe anyone anymore! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I call on these fair weather politicians to finally open their eyes to recognize the real problems in our country. We cannot overlook the fact that 300 000 unemployed are unemployed in our country as a result of this government policy. Initiatives have been announced in all areas. Investment in the construction sector has been announced. It's nothing! 214,000 children in Austria live in poverty. A third of female employees and 40 percent of female workers have less income than 6 200 s per month. All of this will be missed. I have the feeling that over the last few weeks and months, there has been a great desire to place elusive marginal issues at the heart of the political debate. This is about the Church, it is about whether adultery is a ground for divorce or not, it is about possession of arms – yes or no, but about the central issues of employment policy in our country is enslaved to an extent that it cannot be unbearable! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] One is proud of the opening of the electricity market. The Styria sells all its energy to the largest monopolists of the earth in the electricity sector. Red and black in the Styria agree with enthusiasm because they think briefly. Now, as we say, the group is to be internationalized. 25 percent will be delivered at a price of 10 billion schilling. The Italian power monopolists and the German electricity giants are already waiting for them to be able to access. For many years, Austria was so strong. Now I wonder why the Italians are in a position to buy up our local businesses while we cannot present ourselves internationally. Why can't we even go the opposite way if we're actually so successful? But everything that the nationalized companies such as OMV and VOEST have operated in recent years has run down the stream. Wherever international money was put, it was gone. We are not able to operate internationally, nor are we able to do the same in the domestic field. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dietachmayr: This is a nonsense that you are spreading there! Look at the numbers!]] Despite the most massive tax burden on Austrians in recent years – the increase from 1995 to now amounts to 30 percent more tax revenue for local citizens – the 1999 budget again shows a net debt of more than 70 billion schilling. That's not an economy, that's what's going to be done here. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This government is being protected by media, but it is no longer spared by the population; now the sharp wind of unemployment is blown into its face. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: We are among the best countries in Europe!]] Dear Mr. Kukacka! If you think that once any of your people win a mandate, they get you overwater again, I'll just tell you: Don't cheat! A swallow doesn't make any spring yet. You're already submining your Federal Chancellor. You – the ÖVP – tend to say yes to all agreements, even on the question of apprentices, but then leave the Federal Chancellor alone. I have the impression that he does not fit you at all. On the question of apprentices: What has been agreed on in this regard is better than we know because, for example, we do not receive the national employment programme. We can't have that. I can tell you why we were not allowed to do this – now we have it: Because there's nonsens in it. I like the fact that Mr Farnleitner is going here today and says in a press release: It is in fact clear to the national employment catalogue that there are exceptions only to the apprentices, since we are not quite agreed yet. – And with no syllables it is mentioned that this national employment programme, which you have created, will cost about 7 billion schillings, but not a big one in the 1999 budget. That's why you're hypocrites! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You want to shine in the public again and again, but you are unfair in your approach. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: You have to be careful, the Minister of Finance has explained this yesterday!]] They paint stories. They awaken hopes in the people of this Republic and increasingly disappoint them because all your forecasts have not gone up to today's election. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I know that the international meetings of the Trade Union Confederation and the members of the Government have already created "very many" jobs in this Republic. Show me a single job created by these international meetings! One! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You cannot take the evidence of this, but you have to answer where you are ruining jobs by unscrupulous access to the budgets, for example at the post office where you have "successed" dividends or incomes for years and now have to throw out 9 000 employees on the occasion of privatisation. And then you say, This is now the privatisation of the new Austrian species! - I congratulate you on that! The token for this misguided policy, which you pursue in a way in which you are becoming increasingly self-glorious and becoming increasingly self-contained, must pay the individual worker! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There is no discussion of the privileges of the members of the government. There will be a referee law which will bring to the Federal Chancellor a plus of 1 million schilling a year. That's all of course. The Austrian Trade Union Confederation, which has slumbered for many months and years and was still a mentor of the government's tax packages, has now become so disputed that it does not even have time to accept the interests of the workers. The Chamber of Workers, who also had the duty to become active at last in times of high unemployment in socially difficult times, is also involved in party-political thinking – up to Mr. Kaufmann, who now seems to be the only one who renounces his privileges. Because if he leaves the Chamber of Labour as a director and as a national council member, he is the first to have a lower income as a clubman of SPÖ in Lower Austria. He is the only one who makes a contribution, because so far this Chamber Director has had an income at the level of Mr. Federal Chancellor. That you are not ashamed at a time when 40 percent of the workers in this Republic are below 6 200 s per month! This is the social policy of the Social Democrats, which has lasted for many years now! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You have managed to produce 300,000 unemployed in your government responsibility. They continue to maintain their own interests – despite the Praschak case – in an insolent way. I will now give you an example: The head of state of Upper Austria intervenes, where the head of state of Salzburg intervenes, and the head of state of Styria intervenes around a single position at ÖSAG in this Republic. The phones are running hot so that they can get a job black again. I would like these heads of state to let the telephones run hot once for posts for workers and employees in this Republic! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. You son of a bitch.]] Now I will give you one of the "deepest" examples of provincial mail chess: There is a mayor Kraxner in the county capital Wolfsberg who resigns. And here, with the resignation, this mayor Kraxner will again be taken over as a control doctor in the service of the regional health insurance fund. But he's in the hospital. ==References====External links== ==References== ==References====External links== ==References== March? - Because he was the chairman of the Supervisory Board of the National Hospitals Carinthia on 20 July. ==References====External links==* Official website And in order to ensure that the majority conditions in this Supervisory Board vote, he will be re-written retroactively, for in reality he was still infirm on the day of the Supervisory Board meeting. [[Abg. May. Steindl: What does this have to do with employment policy?]] When a local newspaper discovered this, hell was gone, and then he was written healthyly. That's where everything is set in motion! This inspector, who on and for himself decides whether a person can go to illness, whether a person can go to retirement, is self-orientated. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: What does this have to do with employment?]] [[Intercession with the liberals.]] – A solid red, a SPÖler of course. Who else would get a position in a district hospital in Carinthia? This is still a lukewarm story of party-political thinking. These are the things that are annoying people, and you don't want us to publish them too. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] It's nice to talk for Brussels, but it's just not a problem! - I'll tell you one thing: That's wrong thinking! This is false and irrational thinking! Give it to the truth that you too are not satisfied with this situation! It cannot be that everything is only subordinated to the Maastricht criteria. Here we are told again and again that we are the best, but in reality we get a rupture once again because we have too many debts. That's the sensation: It is always stressed that we are first-class internationally, but there are 300,000 unemployed waiting for solutions. I do not expect signature actions from the Trade Union Confederation because of Sunday work, because if you had not decided last year that the law can be opened on Sunday, we do not need any signature actions, dear colleague Feurstein. These are the problems. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They make additional problems for workers. Single mothers will go to work on Sunday. Where are the open kindergartens? – It’s really adventurous. You all believe you have the solutions ready. In fact, you know, and this is seen from the statistics, incomes are falling, we have rising unemployment, and there are 214,000 early pensioners. There's never been that before. This is your social policy. Skill You're still responsible for this? But everything that opposition politicians have to say in this country is done away with. All this is inconceivable, one does not do it in the public, because we meet all the criteria for a common Europe. There are many blamable nonsenses that break the two coalition partners off the fence. I have a direct pleasure because it is increasingly the case that employees of the labour market service become our friends. These come to us and say: Please help us, save us and free us from the nonsenses that are being decided! Now I'll tell you something: There is an order that every 55-year-old female unemployed and every 60-year-old male unemployed should receive a job guarantee for one year. That's great! You can only say paper is patient. Talk to the practitioners in the labour market service, which problems they have to communicate to 40 years of age somewhere else. For such nonsense, time, money and paper are used and the employees are annoyed. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] They're not alternatives. Allow alternatives! Paste You're not a ban on thinking! Do not always do everything that comes from the opposition parties, in particular what the liberals bring in to social ideas! They're coming anyway. Because if it gets too close to you, then surprisingly again and again proposals that have been made by us also appear in your considerations – until the repair of the Emergency Aid Act. You've already been so lying...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e9443	Mr Gaugg! For the expression "you're lying," I give you a call for order. But more importantly, all the following speakers in the section are a little more reticent. – You’re talking!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e9462	If a law is passed in the knowledge that it is repealed by the Constitutional Court and written in there, one asks for an 18-month corrective break, then one could have written in immediately: Please, this Constitutional Court judgment only after the 1. January 2000, because we don't have any money in the budget before. – That is the only reason, you know that very well. But now you've been blamed by the court again. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In dealing with social policy in this country, interesting proposals are constantly being made. There is this national employment paper – quite interesting. It has a total of 38 pages. It does not have much value and content. With the national action plan, the Federal Government is pursuing the goal of creating new, additional work – this is completely new; we have been hearing this for ten years now – to significantly reduce the level of unemployment – sensational; no – and to contribute to the promotion of equal opportunities between women and men – I am very excited! [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals]] What's the point, please? That's pretty incredible. It is even said that public investment will be implemented within the framework of existing projects. I'm sorry, but I think I'm dreaming! – The budget speaks another language. It will remove territorial protection in the professions, it will remove the fee for lawyers, civil engineers, economic fidelity. We are going to hear and marvel – and this is actually the dual nature and also the reason why I am quite sure that we need to talk a little bit more strongly with the masters of the government parties, because otherwise they will sleep completely one; it is also quite interesting, because with this you have come up with the proof of how serious it is to you regarding the liberalisation of the media – to allow private television. [[Rejoicing and condolences with the liberals]] That too is a point in this employment programme! I have to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, it is incredible that the content of an action programme is of course, which is not even the subject of international affairs. The interesting thing is that many chapters – which is why we did not get it – lack financial coverage. It's always funny! One has ideas, one intends to increase employment, one makes proposals, and then there is funding: The Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs says that we still have to discuss this. – For others, the funding is left completely open at all. In the case of social policy under the responsibility of German Chancellor Climate, it has been hard to fail, and therefore it is a great disappointment for me. He was the leader of the SPÖ when he took office as Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany. Today, he even loses in his own community because the people who know him believe him even less. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Criticism is increasingly heard by members of their own government, only they do not trust to articulate them aloud. For example, the apprenticeship employment programme caused 2 billion schilling costs. The effect was zero because there are still 3 500 young people without employment. And we do not have to like the obscene responses of the ministers and the State Secretary of the Ministries. Only a small quote from the reply of a question to the Minister for Social Affairs Hostasch concerning apprenticeship: "The commitment to make at least one training offer for each youth could be given because the Federal Government knows the performance of the services of the AMS and the capacity of schools and therefore knew that such a commitment is realistic." – That is self-evident, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e9546	In order to answer the questions asked, according to § 93 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Secretary of State. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e9567	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Government is the question of employment a too important issue to hold for cheap polemics. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Did you write that down?]] I will try to analyse the facts and facts that are important to the Federal Government. The fact is that the employment situation in Austria is very positive in international comparison: Since 1990, there have been more 175 000 employees in Austria, equivalent to an increase of 6 percent. The unemployment rate is the second lowest in Europe; youth unemployment is the lowest. In a country ranking conducted by the IHS, in which several indicators of labour market development are summarized, Austria is even the top priority. Cheap polemics are only right if you see which factors you consider to be the cause of rising unemployment in your request, for example the reduction of the retirement period by half a year or the reference to covered workers' protection. [[Abg. Böhacker: No polemics from the government bank!]] I do not want to comment on this further, because the Federal Government has here a different concept, namely a policy of serious measures, a policy that acknowledges that we are living in a world where economic links have become very complex, in which there are no miraculous means of combating unemployment, a policy that is not carried out on the back of the workers! [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's what the Sinowatz said!]] [[Call to the liberals: Only excuses!]] The Federal Government's employment policy has been presented several times in the House, and I therefore confine myself to some essential points: The Federal Government's employment programme comprises concrete measures in nine areas to create work for Austria: First, implement a European employment policy, second, expand infrastructure, promote third innovation, fourth, simpler economies; fifth, modernise training; sixth, force active labour market policies; seventh, strengthen exports; eighth, maintain decision-making centres in Austria; and ninth, new ways of opening up new employment areas as well as allowing new technologies. [[Abg. May. Trattner: Have you read the 99er budget?]] This programme will be implemented systematically and point by point. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Whenever it gets brittle, the climate is short!]] At European level: In addition, in the context of the European Union, Austria has made great efforts to ensure that an employment chapter is included in the EU Treaty. This has succeeded – although the realization of such a step was not considered possible a few years before. The Luxembourg Summit, the guidelines adopted there and the action plans to be drawn up by all the Member States are precisely a result of the understanding that we must address the problem of unemployment in Europe not only at national level but also at European level. Austria has made a very important contribution to this process of change. It is also a nonsense, of course, if you think that the guidelines adopted in Luxembourg are contrary to the previous policy of the Federal Government. The guidelines stress in particular those areas which have always played a particularly important role in Austrian employment policy, such as the question of good qualifications for employees. In this context, therefore, a few words on the question of apprenticeship: After the extensive initiative of the previous year, which for the first time has led to more apprenticeships after 20 years, there is no way of talking about the destruction of teaching places. The opposite is true. A trend change has been achieved with much shared commitment from the economy, federal government, countries, municipalities and the AMS. Wide-ranging structural reforms are currently under negotiation. Austria is and remains the country with the lowest youth unemployment. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, one point that has always been of great importance to Austrian economic and, above all, to employment policy, and which is now increasingly being given greater attention in Europe. This is the role of the social partners. The social partners have made a significant contribution to the fact that the situation of the Austrian labour market is better than in other countries. Through a productivity-oriented income policy, great flexibility and consensus in working time policy, the social partners have shown their understanding of the economic sector and contributed a great deal to the success of our country. [[Abg. Haigermoser: The entrepreneurs, the workers and the traders, who are you not talking about? They're just a nuisance.]] Now on the individual questions: Question 1: In this context, I would like to refer once again to my introduction and to inform you of the following: In Austria, unemployment is 4.4 percent in 1997 and 10.7% in the EU. This positive trend is due to the fact that not only the number of unemployed but also the number of employees has increased. Nevertheless, the Federal Government sees the fight against unemployment as one of the most important tasks and has therefore taken the measures mentioned at the outset. [[Abg. Böhacker: Is everything paletteti!]] On question 2: It corresponds to the usual method of argumentation to simplify complex links of action in international markets, of which Austria cannot, of course, decompose. Rather, it is true that in recent years employment in Austria has increased enormously. Based on full employment equivalents, Austria can even record the largest increase in employment in the EU comparison. This can also be measured by the success of the Austrian Federal Government. Conversely, rising unemployment is not only a result of international economic developments, but above all an expression of the changes in the employment behaviour of companies, resulting in a strong increase in the dynamics of labour markets. Increased flows in and out of the employment system ultimately have an impact on the annual average population of predetermined unemployed. At the same time, Austria succeeds in keeping the level of unemployment even by 0.5 percentage points by the effective use of active labour market policies – which corresponds to around 20 000 people in the annual average – lower than it would be without these measures. Question 3: The 'concept of new full employment', which was set out on various occasions, even here in the House in a similar reply to questions, assumes that employment policy must take account of the need for a changing structure on the labour market in the medium term. For example, it is about finding new concepts for the distribution of working time as well as creating new job opportunities in the growing sector of social and personal services. This includes supporting employment opportunities in the public sector. Some of these measures will already be included in the current action programme on employment. Question 4: According to the information available to me, I consider this claim to be irrelevant. As far as personal policy decisions are concerned, I would also point out that such decisions fall exclusively within the competence of the relevant corporate bodies. Question 5: In order to ensure the employment of older workers, the bonus-malus system has been introduced in unemployment insurance. This contributes to the increase in the employment of older workers. On question 6: As regards unemployment on the basis of register data, it should be noted that, in the light of institutional circumstances, the respective recording arrangements are effective in all countries, i.e. pensioners, training cases and others do not appear in the unemployment statistics in other countries as well. Generally speaking, the availability of employment and employability is a prerequisite for unemployed people who are predetermined in the labour market service. Consequently, pensioners and others are not included in the labour force and consequently not in unemployment. Even if the group of persons mentioned above were included in the calculation, the number mentioned in the request would by far not be included. Question 7: A study by the WIFO on the impact of economic and monetary union shows that Austria's participation in EMU at the earliest possible time brings clear benefits, while non-participation would mean a break with the proven Austrian economic policy with serious negative effects. Due to Austria's participation in economic and monetary union, real economic growth is higher by up to 2.25 percentage points in the medium term due to the positive conditions such as stability, growth and employment than in case of non-participation. Question 8: The east opening has brought overall benefits to the Austrian economy. This is mainly due to the rising net exports of Austria to the Central and Eastern European countries. Since the opening of the east in Austria, some 20,000 new jobs have been created. Scientific studies and statistics show that companies investing in Central and Eastern Europe are also those who are rapidly expanding their employment domestically. Foreign investment in Central and Eastern Europe is therefore an essential element in ensuring the competitiveness of Austrian businesses in the medium and long term, and thus also in securing jobs in Austria. [[Abg. Haigermoser: You did not answer the question!]] Questions 9 and 10: Generally speaking, the process of Easter enlargement – together with the deepening of EU integration and the further integration of the world economy as a whole – has a stimulating and non-repressive effect on economic performance in Austria. In Austria, due to good social partnership tradition, wages are oriented towards the development of performance. Industrial wages in some Central and Eastern European countries account for one-tenth of the Austrian population, in Slovenia at about one-third. But wages are decisive for international competitiveness in relation to industrial productivity, which is much higher in Austria. This shows that the international competitiveness of the Austrian industry vis-à-vis competitors in Eastern Europe is intact. This is also illustrated by the trade balance, which shows a significant surplus in favour of Austria. On the question 11: Economic prosperity is between 10 percent in Slovakia and about one third in Slovenia, as measured by Austrian economic performance. It is indeed true that one of the key challenges in the process of pan-European integration is the integration of this difference. The aim will be to make the candidate countries mature in the EU and to bring this prosperity gap into line. Question 12: Of course, enlargement of the Union must be well prepared. Of course, the prosperity gap between the West and the East, which has so far promoted the migration of people, must be reduced. It is therefore appropriate for the European Union to support and assist this recovery process in the Central and Eastern European countries. On the other hand, it must be in the interest of the neighbouring countries such as Austria that there will be transitional periods for enlargement, which will also be required, in particular, in the case of free movement of workers. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Of course, the specific situation of the respective EU border regions needs to be taken into account as in the past, and Austria's views have already been forwarded to the European Union. [[Abg. Aumayr: Take the Brussels response!]] We will try to represent these concerns in Brussels too. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Our perspective for Europe is not that of a fortress, but of a Europe which also safeguards the area of prosperity and peace on this continent in its own interest. [[Abg. Haigermoser: It was an embarrassing passer-by now!]] On the question 13: Vienna, Graz, Klagenfurt and Linz are the most important Austrian cities in daily commuting with urban centres in the Central and Eastern European countries. [[Unrest in the hall]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] Without the transitional rules required by Austria as regards freedom of movement for workers, the accession of the Central and Eastern European neighbouring countries should be expected, in particular, to increase the daily commuting period, and that is why this transitional period will also be required. These transitional periods will be central to the accession negotiations. Question 14: It should be noted in advance that the experience gained in the trade in services with the Central and Eastern European countries is at least favourable. The balance of payments is a constant surplus in cross-border trade with potential candidates. This surplus can be seen in approximately 12.6 billion schilling, and without this positive contribution from the trade in services with the potential acceding countries, the current account deficit in Austria would have been around a quarter higher. A comprehensive regional analysis of the effects of the east opening on retail development is still to be developed, but there is empirical evidence that purchasing power outflows will be expected in the cross-border shopping sector or in the labour cost-intensive services linked to the site. Therefore, the special programme for border regions for Central and Eastern European countries, called for by Austria, will have to be implemented in the appropriate preventive measures. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Khol.]] Question 15: The Amsterdam Intergovernmental Conference has made substantial progress in the field of social and environmental policy. The Social Agreement is now incorporated into the Treaty and is therefore binding on all Member States, both for the current 15 Member States and for the future Member States of Central and Eastern Europe. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Yes! Oh! Ui!]] There are once again uniform legal bases for social policy. The creation of a uniform legal basis for social policy means that the candidate countries will have to fully and fully implement the acquis from their accession, but also to implement it. The European Commission therefore attaches particular importance to the aspect of work and social affairs in the context of the intensive pre-accession strategy. The accession partnerships, for example, in which employment and social affairs were defined as a priority, aim at aligning the standards with EU standards in the candidate countries before accession. In the field of the environment, the Treaty of Amsterdam has developed the primary provisions in several ways. This means that candidate countries are also forced to take over and implement the existing acquis. In the same way as in the social field, the Commission is already paying great attention to environmental issues in the course of the preparations for accession. In the course of the accession negotiations, Austria will take advantage of the opportunities offered. It has already been pointed out several times that social convergence is given great importance. The rapid approach of the candidate countries to high social standards is a prerequisite for the creation of equal conditions of competition. Eastern enlargement opens up an opportunity to harmonise minimum labour law provisions. In the area of environment, Easter enlargement also offers unique opportunities to improve the environmental situation in Central Europe. The rapid and complete acquisition of the acquis is therefore crucial. The pre-accession strategy adopted by the European Union is in line with Austrian interests and concerns and is capable of contributing significantly to the early harmonisation of social and environmental standards at the existing high level in the run-up to enlargement. On the question 16: The German Federal Government's apprenticeship offensive was particularly successful last year. In 1997, more early teachers were counted than in the year before. Wherever you claim that 10,000 young people are without employment, I would point out that, despite repeated clarification, you do not want to accept this fact. The fact is that in mid-March 2 472 teachers immediately available were confronted with 3 337 job seekers. [[Abg. Haigermoser: No polemics from the government bank!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Haigermoser, that was the call from the seventies!]] [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] I should like to point out that the increase in available apprenticeships amounted to 18 per cent, while the decrease of job seekers last year amounted to 21 per cent. I think these percentages can be seen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On the question 17: The apprenticeship package is usefully integrated into the National Employment Action Plan. The social partners and the relevant departments are currently working under pressure to complete the apprenticeship package. Questions 18, 19 and 20: The differentiated support package of the AMS was already successful in 1997. However, it is not obvious that individual firms are waiting for the employment of apprentices to succeed in public promotions. The competent Minister for Labour, Health and Social Affairs has therefore instructed the labour market service to adapt the relevant funding guidelines and to eliminate this phenomenon. [[Abg. Böhacker: How does she do that?]] On question 21: The development of young people's plans is in the trend. To a large extent, this decline in planning posts is due to breakdowns, such as the ÖBB and the Post. In conclusion, however, I would like to point out that 300 additional apprenticeships for apprentices in the Federal Government are available for 1998. On the question 22: The polemic findings that have been made here are all around wrong. Austrian politics is by no means regarded as workplace destructive. On the contrary! We are envied by our very favourable labour market data in the EU comparison. An important result of Luxembourg was the agreement on an employment policy guidelines to be implemented by the Member States in national employment policy action plans. The Austrian Action Plan will be held on 1 January. The Council of Ministers will be presented to the Council of Ministers on 4 April. On the question 23: I am aware that the level of additional wage costs has a certain impact on the labour market. However, additional labour costs must not be assessed in isolation. It is essential to take account of the productivity of the economy. In addition to others, an important indicator of the labour market is unit labour costs. Austria has seen considerable positive developments in recent years. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In order to further strengthen the Austrian labour market efforts, the Federal Minister for Finance, in his contracts to the Tax Reform Commission, has provided as an essential point a reduction in the tax burden on labour. As for the third lower tax rate on labour-intensive services, I have a skeptical attitude – and the Minister of Finance too. In reality, the cost of such a measure is not very favourable to the effects on employment rather than weak and insecure. These proposals are not really comprehensible. Overall, however, the third rate of turnover would be a measure which would be much more expensive than comparable employment promotion. Finally, it should also be borne in mind that the introduction of a third rate of turnover would result in a considerable complication of tax law. Question 24: I repeat that the tax relief of the labour factor will be a special focus of the tax reform commissioned. However, I must stress here that there is no rigid correlation between unemployment rates and additional wage costs. As mentioned above, there is a much greater importance in unit labour costs, in which Austria has an excellent position in international comparison. On question 25: The Federal Government's share of GDP research and development expenditure will be around 0.64 percent in 1998. This is an increase of around 3.2 percent compared to 1997. On the question 26: In the context of the National Action Plan on Employment, further liberalisation steps are also discussed under the heading of promoting business start-ups. A final presentation of these measures will also be made in the National Action Plan, which will be published in the coming weeks. On the question 27: I should like to refer to the answer in question 29. On the question 28: I should like to remind you that the last tax reform entered into force in 1994. This tax reform was also recognised internationally as an example. I am unable to see why, four years after the last tax reform, it can be said that the next one has long been due. [[Abg. Haigermoser: That is embarrassing what you say! In a sentence, you object three times!]] It should also be borne in mind that tax law should not become unclear with regard to efforts to ensure legal certainty through constant changes. [[Lively calls to the liberals.]] This view is also shared by Members of your group. I consider the planned period between the last tax reform and the tax reform 2000 to be quite appropriate, particularly with regard to the low inflation rate in recent years. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] On the other hand, I would like to remind you that with 1. The first stage of the family tax reform will enter into force in January 1999. It will benefit around 5 million people, the households in which children live. There will therefore be a discharge on this date for a large part of the population. On questions 27 and 29: In April of the previous year, the Federal Minister for Finance has called on the Tax Reform Commission to review the Austrian tax system and prepare a tax reform for 2000. The Federal Minister for Finance has given his work contracts to the Commission clear main objectives, namely the tax relief of the labour factor, the review of capital taxation, an ecologisation of the tax system and the convergence compatibility of this tax reform. The first proposals are to be made by autumn 1998 and there is no reason to derogate from this timetable. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e9884	I would like to thank the Secretary of State. We are now entering the debate. The speaking time in the debate is 10 minutes. First speaker is Mr. Dr. Haider. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e9912	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr State Secretary, you had the kindness of calling the arguments of the liberal speaker "unsense" because he dared to question the successful employment policy of the Federal Government. I should like to point out that you are absolutely wrong if you believe that the unemployment rate must be hailed. Because if you all count on the They send them to early retirement because of long unemployment, if you add to those who are in re-trainings that are in work foundations because their businesses have entered, they no longer have jobs and are parked until you find something for them again when you add to the young people who leave school, have never worked and therefore do not appear in unemployment statistics, then you also come to an unemployment rate of not 300 000 but more than 600 000 people – and that is 16 percent and truly not a glory sheet of your policy. [[Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann: Who's doing this?]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Secondly, you have said that our arguments are nonsense because you do not destroy jobs. . I just remember that you promised us 50 000 new jobs at EU accession. In the meantime, even friendly newspapers have been publishing to you that thousands of jobs have been lost since EU accession – in concrete terms more than 50,000. In the "Small Newspaper" it says: 50 000 new jobs were just an EU fairy tale. – This should have gone away from your valued attention. That is, you can't put a pen on the hat for something that didn't actually happen. We therefore demand, in our responsibility for the many people who are concerned that fewer and less work is available, that more and more people become unemployed, that more and more hidden with their unemployment, more concrete answers and clear concepts of how you will deal with this problem. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Because your policy, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, is not very convincing. [[Abg. Swimmling: But you haven't created many jobs yet!]] In an interview with the former Director-General of the Consumer, he said: When it came to the 15 000 jobs of the "consumer" staff, Bank Austria would have made the financing, but the ÖGB was moving across because a sale of BAWAG shares was not possible and should not have taken place without the approval of the ÖGB. – In other words, for the ÖGB, the bank and the shares were more important than the people and the jobs. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's it!]] This is your policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The Federal Chancellor, who seems to be bubbling over and over again on this very critical issue, because he has remained guilty of the answers to this by the hour, apart from major announcements in his declaration of government, has said that older workers need to create more jobs. – It is precisely where he is responsible that older workers are cut off: at the post, at the railway. These are all state enterprises, whether they are distributed or not: at the post 9 500 people, at the railway more than 8,000 people. It is also mined at the Austrian Federal Forests. I have here an interesting article from the "Salzburger Nachrichten" of a few days ago. One can see a photo of the smiling Minister of Agriculture Molterer with the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Austrian Federal Forest AG, and is shown below: Both are pleased with the special dividends of 700 million Schilling, which will ring in the state funds, and that the corporate concept is under the umbrella and subject. In addition, one reads what the company concept means: ==References====External links== All people over 50 years of age are forced to be reduced. That is why the German Chancellor's promise to provide protection and help to older workers is climate-friendly. The same is true of us at the post, where even circular letters are handed around, in which Mr Ditz, former Minister of Economic Affairs and Superstar of the ÖVP, says that he will pay special attention to all those employees who are willing to pursue the personnel reduction model presented by the executives. It is admitted that in the future the use of the personnel reduction model will be in the company for the place that most people will lose. – A great policy that you present to us, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. May. Stadler: Pure cynicism!]] I am now completely confused by what you, Mr State Secretary, have said to us today about EU enlargement, which is now the position of the Federal Government. They say the Easter enlargement has brought opportunities, does the Austrian economy well, is important for the future, one can deal with optimism. Your own Federal Chancellor, that is, your superior, wrote a letter to EU President Santer a few weeks ago, pointing out the danger of destabilising the labour and goods markets in Eastern enlargement. In Austria, this could lead to relocations, job losses, the risk of local supply in rural border regions, labour migration and the sale of local companies. It then cites a number of examples of why this danger is so great: because the wage difference is so large because, as regards economic power, there is a difference of nine to one, because a wage difference of 10 to 15 percent exists in the developing countries, because rural-peripheral regions will not resist competition, because the expected structural adjustment will put pressure on the Austrian labour market and will lead to thousands of workers coming to Austria to displace domestic workers. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Look here!]] After all that the Federal Chancellor has written, you have the forehead to come here and consciously lie to Parliament by explaining something quite different from what is in the Federal Chancellor's letter! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is an official document, ladies and gentlemen. This is an official document of the Austrian Federal Government. This is the letter of the Federal Chancellor, and you can now handle with orders and whatever is happening, I will stick to it: This Secretary of State simply lies to Parliament rigorously, contrary to what... [[Complaints with the liberals]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e10025	Mr. Dr. Haider! I give you a call for order, which you have also provoked, and I ask you to continue your remarks in the sense of common considerations, which we often make.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e10055	I have the right of business regulation to point out, and it is interesting that it does not disturb the EIA. Her head of state Pröll has also pointed out the dangers. But the elections are hardly over, you sit inside here and defend the opening again at any cost, so that jobs need to be destroyed, the economy locked up, and we get thousands of people into Austria as comrades. This is your policy, ladies and gentlemen. This is what we have heard from this Lord today. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I say to you: They will not be successful on the other issues either. The Easter enlargement is a model example of how to speak to split tongues. This also applies to the question of apprentices. Mr State Secretary, you say you do not know how we come to 10,000 unemployed apprentices. I can tell you this: In the past period, 7 600 apprentices were not accommodated in an apprenticeship, but were sent to schools. That means they're looking for an apprenticeship now. And another 3,500 are still looking for, according to the Institute of Economic Research. So we are already at over 10,000, and in summer 96 000 young people will leave the schools and look for apprenticeships. However, they have already spent all the money on the labour market administration and have no more ammunition to really fight against youth unemployment. That is what we are accusing you of: that you have a charlatanerie of first order here. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That is why we say: First of all, it would be important to create a 30 percent training allowance for firms in order to avoid costs. Low costs mean more apprenticeships for the Austrian youth. [[New condolences with the liberals.]] Secondly, The vocational school must be reformed urgently. Why are you opposed to the fact that vocational schools are being adapted to modern aspects? I visited a farm, Felten & Guillaume in Gmünd, where I was told: The apprentices who are highly specialized in this field work in the vocational school on obsolete machines. The vocational school is supposed to come to us and produce here. – All of this sleeps and marvels that the skilled workers’ stand in Austria is going to end up with this kind of politics. That is why you need urgent action here! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr State Secretary, who represents you to Mr Bundeskanzler You have also raised the issue of additional wage costs in terms of jobs. [[Abg. Koppler: The Messiah!]] Of course! But who has created a new municipal tax on the last tax reform, which is to be shown to be a new labour cost? The local tax is nothing but the old payroll tax plus 50 percent. And that's what you call relief of the factor work? There you all have to sit down in school and learn how to really relieve labour costs, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e10126	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e10141	That's why we're telling you: It is not a question, Mr State Secretary, of advocating to you that you are not going to do anything but that you are finally taking concrete measures by presenting a tax reduction package that gives the Austrian economy hope of securing jobs and giving young people the opportunity to be sufficiently trained without subsidies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e10168	Mr Stadler has reported on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e10190	Mr President. The Secretary of State, in his reply to the question, at least on questions 8 to 15 of the urgent question, such as the document just read by Mr Klubobmann Dr. Haider, namely the letter from the Federal Chancellor to Commission President Jacques Santer, proves to Parliament the untruth. I would like to make it clear whether, out of a lack of intention, as we used to believe, or knowing how we now accept. Mr President. In view of this situation and the incredible procedure of the Secretary of State, I would like to refer to § 18 of the Rules of Procedure, which I am also proposing at the same time, to ask for the presence of the Federal Chancellor responsible. I would also ask you, Mr President, to allow a brief debate on this request or, if you decide otherwise and do not allow this debate to be held in a short term. I do not think that any parliament in the democratic world can accept the fact that a member of the government is false, consciously misinformed, as happened today in the light of this document.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e10226	Mr Kostelka has reported on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e10247	Mr President. This word on business treatment is the obvious attempt at the scandalisation of a correct answer to questions, using the Rules of Procedure. I would like to reject all of this! [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is abuse!]] A reply has been made here within the framework of the Rules of Procedure. [[Abg. Madl: That's wrong!]] I see no reason why a member of the Federal Government, who is properly represented, should be quoted, and I must strongly reject the efforts of the Liberal Group to scandalize here.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e10301	A further speech on business treatment was made by Mr Dr. Khol. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e10323	The People's Party is also of the opinion that the answer to the question was correct, and it does not agree with either a presidential or a quotation.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e10353	Mr Mag. Stadler has made a request. The request for the decision of the National Council to require the presence of a member of the Government shall be in accordance with the rules of procedure. At least eight or ten such applications have been made over the last five years. I think it is acceptable and will comply with the same procedure that we have always complied with in such requests. I see no reason to deviate from this procedure. I would therefore ask you to prepare for a vote. We shall vote on Mr Klubobmann's request. Stadler, in this debate, immediately demand the presence of the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Mr President, Mr Wittmann, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e10395	In principle, I would like to reject such statements. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This can be proved!]] The letter you quoted, of course, has been quoted incompletely once again. On page 3, the need for action is listed according to the analysis of these requirements. The need for action mentioned in this letter covers the answer to questions 8 to 15. The same package of measures mentioned here was also mentioned by me in the answer to the question. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Give us your reading template, then we will prove it to you!]] I would like to add that it is not a question of insinuating the population with possible scandalisations or anxiety in relation to enlargement of the East, but of taking concrete action and calling for how an east opening can take place. [[Abg. May. Stadler:... before you do another reading exercise!]] That is to say, one will call for action by the European Union to be taken to prepare for an enlargement of the East, and one will call for measures by the candidate countries to make themselves ready for the EU. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: What do you want?]] We are at the beginning of a negotiation process. I would just like to point out to you that Austria has also been negotiating for over five years until it was able to join the EU, and that in these five years there has been a great change. The Copenhagen criteria will require precise compliance with the requirements so that accession can take place at all. Austria will also present its conditions for the support of the regions at the eastern border with the European Union and will try to enforce it. We're on a... [[Abg. Böhacker: They have been rejected!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Sit down! Not enough!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] We are at the beginning of a negotiation process. We will certainly bring home one of these measures at the end of the negotiations. I am convinced that such measures will be taken. [[Abg. Böhacker: such an intellect!]] Another measure requested is that transitional periods should be granted, particularly in the case of free choice of jobs. [[Abg. Böhacker: Total ignorance!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Don't talk into a vortex!]] This is also a criterion that will be introduced into the negotiations. In conclusion: On the one hand, the European Union is preparing for a possible enlargement of the East, and on the other hand is preparing the candidate countries for enlargement. That is to say, to raise the standards that have not yet been met there or to bring these countries to the fulfilment of the criteria. There is a pre-accession strategy. However, Austrian interests must also be included in the negotiations and demand transitional periods. Nothing else was said in the answer to the question. That is the conclusion from the analysis of this paper, which you, Mr Haider, have only partially quoted. They have merely quoted the analysis, but deliberately refrained from the conclusions. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: No! That's exactly what's happening!]] In this sense, there is a uniform opinion of the Austrian Government on measures taken by the European Union and the candidate countries.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e10584	I call Mr Franz Hums. The speaking time is 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e10608	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to thank Mr Klubobmann Dr. Haider very much for quoting here the letter from the Federal Chancellor to the EU to Santer. This letter shows quite clearly that the Federal Chancellor is doing everything he can to ensure that future Easter enlargement is not at the expense of Austrian workers and jobs. That is why this was actually a very good matter for the Social Democratic Party. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Tell the Santer the truth – and let us go!]] No one could have said here more crediblely that the Federal Chancellor is already taking action to ensure that opportunities in the East are very likely to be exploited and risks excluded with the enlargement of the East. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: The Austrians are not allowed to learn the truth!]] But not at the expense of jobs! There will be a number of measures during the accession negotiations so that we can secure our jobs in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You have already begun the destruction!]] So far, the enlargement of the East has brought net 40 000 jobs in Austria. That is why it is absurd to be insecure all the time! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Dr. Haider! An opposition that wants to draw attention to something in good time – completely okay; an opposition that is harshly criticised – I think is quite right. But sometimes I have the impression that you like the spirit here, who always refuses. And that can't be it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: No to Easter enlargement, yes to jobs!]] Let us go together on the way to secure jobs! There can be no doubt that worldwide the rapid technological development, the change in the economic situation in the international field, has called on all the countries of the world to take action to secure jobs. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: No to Easter enlargement, yes to jobs!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Take action! Tax reform!]] The Social Democrats have always sought to secure full employment in Austria not only under the current Federal Chancellor, but also among all the predecessors, at all levels. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Nothing you do!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: And where are we?]] Do you think, without these measures, that Austria has the merit of belonging to the countries with the lowest unemployment within the EU with Luxembourg? – The greatest thanks, the greatest recognition for this is to the Austrians. With their ability, they are the ones that ensure the high competitiveness in the world. They're the first to thank you, they're the ones. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But without the competent economic policies of the government, this year and in recent years, it would not have been possible for us to have these excellent data, excellent data, which, however, do not calm us down. Because our goal is to continue full employment, but, Dr. Haider: Full employment with prosperity and social security for all. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You promised!]] But in Your application is now again: We are disrupting full employment because we want the general social security obligation for all jobs. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: No concept!]] Would you really want more and more to be excluded and not to be in social security? – We do not want such a job policy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They advocate a reduction in pension contributions, for example, in the previous debates under the title "Lohnnöffentschriftung", and introduce a private pension insurance patented by you as a replacement, but that can't be our goal! If you, as I say as a railway driver, regret that jobs are also disappearing in the area of railways, then no one will be more sorry than we are, that is not a question. But technical progress also requires changes there. Just one, Dr. Haider... [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You promised something else to the people!]] I have never promised that no rationalizations will come! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Yes! At the mail!]] There you can read all my speeches as a trade unionist. But if I read your speeches, in which you still asked for the national industry to close all the businesses that are not profitable, I know: Donawitz would have been closed for a long time after your job policy. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: And you have to do it!]] Some forget that again, but we won't forget it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They couldn't get the rationalization of the railway fast enough. Just try it all of a sudden, because you think you forget it... [[Abg. Gaugg: More directors than apprentices have the ÖBB!]] The ÖBB have more apprentices than ever before. You're sure you're on the wrong steamer. Unfortunately, my speaking time does not allow me to address all your issues. But believe me the following: Not of about we have such high employment! But that doesn't calm us down. The government and, in particular, the Social Democrats will, at all levels, also within the Austrian Trade Union Confederation, where you are in fact refusing to cooperate for a long time, make every effort to further improve the employment situation. The technology export offensive is one of these measures – it works. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Refusing cooperation at the ÖGB?- Oh, my God!]] Infrastructural development measures, for example in the railway sector – more than 12 billion Schilling annually. This ensures the competitiveness of Austria for the future and creates jobs at the same time. Training offensive – a lot has happened in the apprenticeship sector. New careers are coming. [[Abg. Gaugg: (in the direction of Abg. Koppler) 2 billion schilling, is the accusation!]] You should cooperate in this and not just go on fruitification. New jobs in health: The funds for active labour market policies have not, as you believe, fallen. Because in 1995 it was about 5 billion, now it is 7.5 billion schilling alone for direct AMS funding. In addition, investments in infrastructure are being made, and this is how it continues. We can show success in all these areas. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Is this coalition offer agreed with the Federal Chancellor? You're making us a coalition offer? Is that serious?]] I will never make coalition offers to you, but I recognize it when Dr. Haider brings the Federal Chancellor here, in exceptional circumstances, right into the conversation, even if he has only half read the letter. The rest then read to Mr Wittmann. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Now you're moving! You have already entered Lower Austria!]] All of this has been done so far. There will also be more funds for active labour market promotion in the future. [[Abg. Gaugg: We have heard that for years!]] And they rise from year to year! If you could just count on a little bit! When writing, you are relatively good – even if you don't like every one of them – but you might have to learn something about it when you add it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In 1995 it was 5 billion, last year 7.5 billion schilling – and that is why you say it is less – only for the active labour market policy of the AMS! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: 5 billion you turned off at the pensions!]] In addition, economic promotion, infrastructure development and so on. Please Believe You're telling me: Nothing comes from anything! [[Abg. May. Stadler: There's nothing from the government, that's what we're saying all the time!]] If we have such good economic policy data, it has its cause in government policy, which we want to support in the future. [[Abg. Gaugg: You must support the unemployed!]] I would like to say again: If you really want to be a good opposition – and that will be your main goal... [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] The case with the chancellor will have already been written off by yourself. That's not a job for you, such qualification measures wouldn't even exist in the AMS! If you go there and say you want to be chancellors, you will find no program there: neither in the apprenticeship program nor in the senior program – nor in between. [[In the direction of the Abg. Dr. Haider:]] I'm sure it won't be inside, Doctor. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Become a good opposition! Don't miss your goal of being the mind who always refuses! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Who lost the elections?]] In any case, with all the positive forces in politics and in the economy, we will continue to work more intensively that there are not as many unemployed as today – that is also our goal – but full employment. But full employment – contrary to your goal – on jobs with full social security and prosperity! That is our objective, and the national action plan will also make a significant contribution to this. Dr. Haider, good at learning!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e11011	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Drinkl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e11032	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Although today's urgent request for the liberals has not put forward a concrete proposal to improve the employment situation, be calm: We didn't expect that either. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] But it offers us the opportunity to comment on "Employment in Austria" from our point of view. They try to spread fear and horror in the country with statistical art handles and claims. Our policy... [[Abg. Haigermoser: (keeping a brochure in height) Not us! That's your statistics! From the Chamber of Commerce!]] Never believe a statistics that you didn't fake yourself! You showed this to me today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Your statistics!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gaugg.]] Our policy, the policy of the ÖVP, is very different from that. We can point to facts and facts, we can point to correct decisions in the past. Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, listen to: We can also point to offensive concepts for the future. That's our policy. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: (in the direction of the Freeman) Read correctly!]] [[Calls and calls between the ÖVP and the liberals.]] Let me say the following: Only a strong, competitive economy creates jobs. Policy must create the conditions for the economy to be able to fulfil this task. [[Abg. Gaugg: She was "great", the performance!]] I can only modestly point out that this has been quite successful in the past, in recent years. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). We can record the lowest youth unemployment in Europe. We have the lowest unemployment rates in relation to all other European countries. [[Abg. Gaugg: A hundred thousand unemployed more!]] We have many other indicators to show that this policy has taken place in the past. But not only in international comparison, but also nationally, we can see a trend change. In this context, I would like to quote the head of the Institute for Higher Studies, Felder, who meant that unemployment will also decline in Austria in the second half of this year. We can't be content with that, I admit. We must do everything we can to strengthen this trend. If we look at the statistical data on unemployment, we see that it is often structural and not economic. If we want to remedy this situation, we must in particular examine the long-term unemployed group carefully and develop innovative programmes to ensure that these people return to employment. This is particularly true for many women who are pushing back into the employment process. I would point out that last year we created the integration aid. I admit that it is only slowly taking action, but this is an attempt to motivate businesses to hire unemployed people. We will continue on this path. It is also necessary to ask whether all benefits to the unemployed are justified and why some unemployed cannot be communicated. We should look at this group very carefully, especially since we have found that the AMS is particularly trying in this respect. If we want to offer people new jobs, we also need to open up new areas of employment and activity. In this context, I would like to remind you of a proposal from Mr Rasinger that many possibilities arise, particularly in the social field. These initiatives should be supported. I would also like to highlight the proposal made by members of the ÖAAB, with which they always want to help the Home Service break through. We should follow such models and finally become active. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We from the People's Party represent the foreign exchange: To create work, not to manage unemployment! Only the permanent increase in the competitiveness of Austria's economic location also provides a guarantee of employment. Only competitive businesses create jobs! In fact, it is important to eliminate those site disadvantages that we often find still: high infrastructure costs, huge regulatory density, lack of flexibility. Even though many can no longer hear: We must succeed in reducing the cost of pay-related costs and reducing the additional cost of pay. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Start!]] On hotly contested export markets, it is crucial to offer a favourable price. We do not want to reduce wages, I would like to see it clearly. We want our employees to make a lot of money, because they also make demand with their merit. What we want is that these people can actually use the money they spend on them for their families. I should also like to point out that the family package is an economic action which, triggered by Minister Bartenstein, will bring 12 billion schilling to the families and thus to the consumption. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We must also ask ourselves, when it comes to the competitiveness of the Austrian economy, whether many bureaucratic conditions with which the companies have to fight today are really necessary. I am thinking, for example, of countless statistics, last but not least of the earnings structure survey that many entrepreneurs have almost brought to light. One important point I would like to point out is the importance of business start-ups for Austria's economic location. Finally, on average, each business start-up brings three to four new jobs. We have also succeeded in this area. We decided in this House last year on the new business regulations. [[Abg. Haigermoser: And how many companies have been founded on the basis of this novelle?]] I can tell you the following: 1996: 12 101 operations, plus 15 percent; 1997: 12 433 operations, plus 2.7 percent. And the trend is rising, Mr. Haigermoser. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Please stop talking! For your family's sake! To your own protection!]] If you look at the statistics, you'll realize I'm right. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We'll continue this path. The proposal by Minister Farnleitner to facilitate access to the authorities is more interesting. I would also like to point out that many federal states have now succeeded in limiting the duration of the proceedings to three months. In this context, I can lead my home country, the Styria. However, we must also point to the success of our economy in export. In this direction too, the companies must continue to be supported. There are great achievements of the Chamber of Commerce' External Trade Organisation. In particular, small and medium-sized enterprises urgently need this assistance, and they also receive it sufficiently continuously. There has been an export increase of 15 percent since EU accession, particularly in the case of exports to southern and eastern European countries. This is a success report that can be seen. We have decided an apprenticeship package I with substantial deregulations in this House. It was demanded by the People's Party on a massive basis. In the meantime, we have formulated an apprenticeship package II, which shows ways of ensuring this progress. We must provide the firms with the conditions which enable them to train apprentices again. Proposals for this are sufficiently available and will be discussed. I could point out a lot of proposals from our party here, but time does not allow me, and so let me conclude. Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Government can rightly point to successes in employment policy. However, we are not satisfied with what we have achieved, but rather with offensive concepts for discussion. On the other hand, fear-making and black painting, as they do today from the opposition here according to the motto: "Fears are the future." Our policy is another, and you will see that we will succeed with this policy in the interests of our country.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e11222	Mrs Haller has made a statement on an actual correction. The relevant provisions are known. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e11247	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! My previous speaker, Mr Dr. Dr. Drinkl, falsely claimed that this family package would have been initiated by an initiative by Minister of Family Bartenstein. [[Congratulations and bravado with the ÖVP.]] That's wrong! I'm correcting: The present family package, which was falsely called "new family support" yesterday by Minister of Finance Edlinger, is merely an insufficient repair measure in the area of family taxation, which is due to a knowledge of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e11302	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Peter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e11323	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Unemployment is great for the Causa, and whether we have made some contribution to the solution today, I doubt it. Discussing who has motherhood for the family package or whether we need to open the eyes of the Federal Government to talk Austria into the abyss or to lose us in statistics – that does not mean anything about solving the really pressing problem of unemployment. It is a structural issue that this House should discuss. It is a question of where unemployment is at home, where we need to change something about our framework conditions in society, about these scourges of the 20th and perhaps also 21st. ==References====External links== It is a structural issue which has to do with productivity and technical development, and the question arises: Have we actually opened all the doors and gates to the technical development in Austria? There will be three major growth areas in the second modern age. These are the communication technologies, these are the biotechnology, and this is the leisure industry. Have we set the course in these areas in order to create real employment – or have we refused to do so, especially in the field of biotechnology? Employment in the field of production in Austria will never again reach the level it has had. New technological applications will deal with higher productivity, lower unit labour costs and lower people with greater market access. This structural problem is not in any way altered by this party-political disparity, which is happening here. But perhaps this is the employment therapy of many Members on a Thursday afternoon. The qualification is the second really structural moment of unemployment, the qualification that we do not meet in our education system, because it still imparts verifiable knowledge, because "one person" is still being educated in our school system – instead of team-powered people who have curiosity, who know where they can look, who themselves actively learn to learn. Today we need an increasing number of advanced process technicians and fewer skilled workers in the economy, especially in production-oriented areas. Just as the occupation of domestic workers died perhaps 50, 80 or 100 years ago, today the profession of skilled workers is one that will never die out, but which will really reduce to its extent. Has this Federal Government - and I think the question should be - found the answers in the field of education to prepare young people for them? Do you know that 80 percent of the technologies we use today are no longer being used in ten years? Do you know that every year 10 percent of jobs are lost at the lower end of employment, purely for skills reasons, but at the top of employment, 10 percent of new jobs are added to where we lack a workforce where we do not find young people who can dress for such a job because it fails to qualify and life-long learning does not work? Moreover, globalisation is what gives us a global competition from our economic location. Location policy is the point with which you can create employment in an export-oriented country with which you can increase competitiveness, not only in the production companies that employ fewer and less people, whether post or train – that has already been mentioned today – or in the automotive industry. Go to the new factories and see how many people still work there, how many machines are working there! Location policy is also a question of the service, where productivity progress and labour costs cannot be implemented at cheap unit labour costs. Ladies and gentlemen! If we are already discussing unemployment – and the unemployed people in our country deserve to be seriously concerned with it – then we are leaving this small party-political gap! The opposition believes it must be annoyed by the government, the government quotes statistics that the Secretary of State only reads from the 'Blattl'. This is not really a debate on unemployment, which it is worth being held. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Young Entrepreneurs' offensive, employment offensive – yes, ladies and gentlemen from the government parties, I can't hear it anymore! How many "opensives" will you propose to us? Technology offensive, there's a billion, there's a billion. After all, you are acting just as much as the free opposition you have always attacked. You just cut around with numbers. Once you take action, you have the right to criticize the liberals! But you do exactly the same in your political broadcasts. Unemployment in Austria is really oppressive and, of course, the liberals are right to say that we do not have 230 000 unemployed. We only hid them better than other countries. In reality, there are 500 000 to 600 000 people in Austria who are without work. They have better 'parked' them, I admit; they have better hidden them in statistics. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: That's not true!]] But there are 500 000 to 600 000 people in Austria who want to work but who do not find work as early pensioners or in various training systems. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! They have also solved the question of apprenticeship in no way at all. You have spent a lot of money – and I have congratulated you several times from this point of view – in order to overcome in the short term the most maligned framework conditions that you have set for teaching and that you are not willing to reform. For this you have used 2 billion schilling and have certainly helped many young people. Thank you for doing so. But have you already asked the question, ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party and of the Social Democrats, what will be in June 1998? Today you have these 7,000 young people in school. But what do they do when the school is over? Many companies have taken on more apprentices than they can need because they have been introduced. Thank you for doing so, but your apprenticeship for 1998 is already full today. You have a large number of requests in the Committee. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has not yet been set up by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, despite my many interventions, by the subcommittee of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, which we wanted to meet together with the Committee on Education. This is the subject, Mrs. Tichy-Schreder: They refuse the debate on apprenticeship reform! That's the real topic! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: And you refuse the dates!]] And the apprentices stay on the track. You will experience a disaster in apprenticeship training in June and July 1998, because you will not be able to cover once again your mistakes, your missing structural reforms with 2 billion schilling. That's the point. At least let us start with the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs on 31 December. March on, and let's discuss that! The subcommittee has not been called up, it has not discussed, it has not responded to proposals made by the opposition. If you do not agree with the proposals of the opposition regarding apprenticeship problems, you will bring in some of them yourself! Not to say that they will not allow any discussion, that is obviously your way of dealing with this problem. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A few words on the issue of Easter enlargement. Of course, it is reserved for the Freedom Party and its Federal Party Minister Jörg Haider to be against the European Union first, then to be against the euro and, of course, to be against the opening of the East. That's clear, it's like a bead chain where a pearl hangs on the other: We will find a few more Austrians who believe this and whose fears we can arouse. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] There is no alternative to including, in the foreseeable future, Mr Stadler, the Central and South-East European States with transitional provisions in the circle of the European Union in order to realize this peace community Europe, and you will not be able to change it with your party political statement. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum as well as on representatives of the SPÖ.]] The standard of living in Slovenia is one third of the Austrian population. The standard of living in the Czech Republic and Poland and the other Central and South-East European countries is about one tenth to one seventh of the Austrian population. That's right. To decide on an east opening today would be the bright insanity, but, ladies and gentlemen: We have a time ahead of us – and I think it will be more than ten years – when these states will develop much faster with economic development, a young and fast-growing economy than we do. And I believe that it will be sufficient to achieve a percentage of 50 percent of the income that can be achieved in Austria – largely not entirely – in order to make this difference in growth the concentration in the European Union. And let's not forget the following: The approximation of the environmental and social standards which we are experiencing today in these states that compete in globalisation will be the most guaranteed to us by joining the European Union. And let us not forget that we have to do local policy here in Austria! In one case, the liberals have been right in criticising the European Union: They have said that this government has not done its homework in far-reaching areas. They were right. We're still aware of that today. How do you want to participate in the euro with 4 per cent more VAT and 10 per cent more beverage tax in the peripheral districts? How do you want to do that? And there are many other things. So let us go here and start preparing for the Easter enlargement in Austria itself so that this century work can be completed in Europe!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e11427	Mrs Tichy-Schreder spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e11451	Mr Mag. Peter! ==References== March, next Tuesday, we have a meeting of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. The subcommittee, which deals with all the apprentices, should then be set up. [[Abg. Böhacker: This is an announcement and no correction!]] In fact, Mr Peter, I am correct: This subcommittee could not therefore take place because, among other things, the Liberal Forum has also rejected this date.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e11513	Mr Oellinger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e11535	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! [[Further call of the Abg. Haigermoser towards ÖVP.]] The issue of unemployment, Mr Haigermoser, would also have deserved a little more attention from your side. I think the urgent request of the liberals suffers from one, but not minor, defect: It is not recognizable in your request what you are referring to. There is everything inside: from the eastern extension to the young to the older unemployed. It's just that there's no crime left. – This is the problem, Mr Haigermoser. I hope you take this issue seriously. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Networked thinking!]] I believe, however, that although the Liberals have already asked these and similar questions several times, it is not enough that it is not enough if it makes the Federal Government so easy and sends it to the Secretary of State, who can no longer contribute to this debate. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Not only demand an intoxication, that's not enough! Not only do petrol price increases to 40 s require, that's not enough!]] I think that a little more serious would be a good thing for this debate. If I think of what has come or has not come up with answers, I dare to say that the national employment plan you have been working out for several months will also be "intensive". If I imagine that one of the chief negotiators on the social partners' side, Mr Maderthaner, should obviously have stayed on holiday during the intensive phase of the negotiations, I would think that this would probably not contribute precisely to the quality of these social partners' deliberations and the national employment plan. I see here a problem, ladies and gentlemen, of the government parties, even in this urgent question of the liberals who could and should have asked a lot of concentrated questions, for example the employment plan, because the government is obviously unable to make the contours of its employment plan at least visible. Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! In a few days you want to present this opus magnum to the public, because we don't have a meeting. Where are the contours? Where does your courage stay with the tasks? I remember You, ladies and gentlemen, also you, Mr State Secretary: There are other governments that deal differently with this issue. It is not a concept visible. What we've heard here and today, we've heard a lot. It is not only today that we are missing, but also earlier on we believe that you are really doing something, and above all the measures are missing. Where and how do you want to work? Why Refuse Do you have any questions? Why Give You are not aware that the development of unemployment – and it has already been pointed out several times – does not look so good that the assumptions made by the Federal Government on the development of unemployment have also not been met budgetaryly, but that unemployment has continued to rise in Austria? Why Give You do not want us to insist on a state of unemployment in this country – I am referring to the register unemployment rate – which the Federal Chancellor called two years ago "worst-case-scenario"? He has literally told the press: If unemployment reaches 7 percent, that would be the worst-case scenario. We're over 7 percent, ladies and gentlemen, and I don't need to remind you. I hope you will not be reminded of the fact that there are, of course, also the trickery with statistics criticised by the other opposition parties in the area of unemployment statistics. It is possible to remove certain groups of unemployed people from the statistics in cosmetic terms, for example not only by sending them for training under the Labour Market Promotion Act, but also by sending them for training under the Unemployment Insurance Act. If you send them for training under the Labour Market Promotion Act, you can still calculate this from the table. But if you send them for training under the Unemployment Insurance Act, they do not even appear in a table. And that is one of the problems that exists in connection with these statistics. But you can of course be comforted by the fact that you are not alone within Europe, within the European Union or within the OECD. I would like to quote dozens of articles which show that almost every government in connection with unemployment has taken action in recent years on the means of trickery and that your reference to the OECD unemployment rate, which has already been raised together with the other European countries, is not very helpful, since each government interprets this OECD quota as it is most favourable for them. But the real topic – now I come to a part of the request of the liberals – would already be: What do you intend, ladies and gentlemen, to do about unemployment? – I quote from the "standard" of 17th century. February: "There will be a lack of 9 000 teaching places today." And no one can be optimistic and believe that this Federal Government will succeed in providing the missing apprenticeships with the same resources as in the previous year. There are good reasons, ladies and gentlemen. The apprenticeship offensive which you promoted last year and which actually led to the creation of 4,000 to 5,000 new apprenticeships, which I do not dispute, was only successful because you have subsidized a total of 25 000 teaching places. You had to do this so that you could achieve the effect of 5,000 new apprenticeships. I think you know from the Federal Government and the government parties that the price that had to be paid for it was enormously high: There have not only been multiple promotions, which have partly gone far beyond what the apprentice costs the employer, but there has also been no coordination of the funding. The Secretary of State has here praised the great joint commitment of the stakeholders, the municipalities, the countries, the AMS. However, I would like to keep in mind that this joint commitment by the bodies concerned is obviously not at all the basis for coordination of the promotions, so that many times devils have been promoted out - with a small effect. 4 000 to 5 000 teaching institutions have been promoted, at the price of the teachers who are open this year, you know, Mr Hums, there are more, probably 12 000, not just the 9 000, who can no longer be promoted to this extent because the funds are already committed. And this is an effect of your announcement policy, ladies and gentlemen! You cannot even use the instruments properly, you have obviously distributed the money, and the entrepreneurs have, of course, used themselves – that is not to blame them – because no targeted policy was pursued. That is what I blame you, ladies and gentlemen, is that you have abolished all these instruments with which to pursue targeted labour market policies, such as the "Action 8000", because the liberals were excited at the time, and now say: We want to create new employment projects in the non-profit sector. – But the instruments you have ruined to a degree that it was not possible or possible to actually promote in the non-profit area to the extent that it was the case a few years ago. I would remind you that it is not only in the field of youth unemployment, but also in the "Come back!" action. There have been disastrous mistakes in the fact that the policy of wage subsidisation, which you have operated with this instrument, has failed in all European countries because it has not been targeted, not at certain establishments, not at certain structures. You spread the money and then you say: We've done the best we can anyway! – It is not enough because you have used the instruments in part wrong and because you are obviously unable to reach an agreement between the government parties, which is for the benefit of the unemployed and those who want to find employment. Ladies and gentlemen! They really don't have much to put on the shoulder of fame. No, it's not. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: So, glory leaves are attached to the sleep, not to the shoulder!]] You can speak of happiness that in the last few years in Austria we have assumed a relatively low base of unemployment, but you have not managed to remove this base. You will not achieve this with the measures you have taken in recent years. They lack the courage of the two government parties and the willingness to actually break into new shores, to consider new instruments, in working time policy, in employment policy, as the other European governments try. You should admit here in this debate that you are unable, just as you have not been able to present the employment plan here and today, which you would have expected in connection with this debate.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e11609	The next speaker is Mr Dolinschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e11630	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker, with his final word, hit the nail on his head. There is a lot of talk about full employment, just: We don't have her anymore! Unfortunately, reality looks quite different; this also shows the figures of the AMS of February 1998. There was an increase of 2.4 percent in February 1998 compared to the same month in the previous year. However, as some of my previous speakers have mentioned, half of the real unemployed are not included in statistics. For example, the unemployed, who are sent to a re-training measure or are employed in a work foundation by the labour market service, are simply not registered, as do workers of special support, special emergency aid, pension advance, care allowance and so on. In addition, the Federal Government is encouraging the unemployment rate by forcing 10 000 older workers to move to early retirement, especially in close-to-state enterprises. Under the heading "privatisation", close-to-state undertakings are distributed, falling out of the control of the Court of Auditors, the Land Days and the National Council. And these companies push older workers more and more into retirement. This is the case in the school sector, in the area of national defence, in the Austrian Federal Railways, in the post office, in Telekom, in the banking and insurance sector as well as in the OMV, where there is a high share price, but does not do anything for the workers. I would also like to point out that many school and university leavers who are unable to enter the profession immediately are not included in statistics, nor are mothers who want to work again after their children's schooling but who do not find a job. They all fall out of these statistics. But there is also a fiasco in connection with the apprentices. A major announcement was made last year: We're going to start an apprenticeship offensive, and now we've got the next apprentice crisis again. There is a precarious situation in apprenticeship training. At the end of February 1998, according to AMS statistics, 3 452 teaching institutions were confronted with 3 521 job-seekers immediately available. To this official figure comes an equally high number of dark ones. For the 15 to 19 years of age, only every second unemployed person is registered as such. The practice then looks like this: If you don't report to your advisor from the AMS for more than a month, you automatically get out of the computer file and you don't seem to notice there anymore. The actual and unsightly number of job seekers must therefore at the present time correctly be indicated with the alarming number of 7 000 that will be pushed into the apprenticeship market this year. In addition, in this year the 7 600 apprentices who were transferred to schools last year, as well as the group of 15-year-olds, who are now leaving school and are also pushing on the apprenticeship market. The fact that the number of 15-year-olds in this year is up by 96 000 compared to the previous year is also aggravating. In addition, the preferential effects associated with the recruitment of apprentices last year will lead to a further narrowing of the apprenticeship market. There will be a so-called traffic jam of job seekers. The supposed top goal of our Federal Chancellor and the Federal Government that in the autumn of 1997 no job seekers will be present without a teaching position was far missing. On the contrary: An educational disaster is to be expected for this year. The fact is that the use of billions of AMS funds has led to the promotion of apprenticeships to a wild increase in funding. The winners were those companies that had waited until the government had panicked and who then – very late – hired young people to succeed in this promotion. In my opinion, this procedure is unfair in that those who have waited the longest for the employment of apprentices have been able to achieve the greatest benefit, namely this promotion; the others have not. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Mrs. Colleague! 20 000 S per apprenticeship and month have been paid! More than 2 billion Schilling has cost the apprenticeship offensive of the Federal Government. This is a negligent handling of Austrian tax money! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The consequences of this wild growth on previous year's funding are obvious: Most of the funding available is already committed due to current commitments, and the funding budgets of the labour market service are thus blocked for years. The labour market service will therefore have little room to promote new apprentices this year. No more money is available for current job seekers. In particular, for school leavers, the chance of finding an apprenticeship will be greatly reduced. Both government parties, after the fiasco of the previous year, which I have already mentioned, have sworn to amend the framework conditions before the next school end, to implement a reform of apprenticeship training and to create a fair system of funding. Only: I alone lack faith! . I see no request, I do not see a government template, there is no subcommittee on apprentices. Nothing! Mr Hums said he invited the opposition to go a common way in employment policy. Mr Hums! You will soon have the opportunity to implement your statement, because the resolution already distributed by me and my colleagues on the discharge of Austrian training firms and the attracting of teaching will now be introduced in the course of this debate. This application concerns: an apprenticeship grant financed by the Federal Government for above-average benefits up to the level of the costs for AHS students compared with more costs; an apprenticeship allowance of 30 percent of the effort for training firms – this is certainly better than the distribution to only certain establishments, as was the case in the past; non-respect of the compensation for apprentices in the calculation of the basis of assessment for the municipal tax; a minimum compensation for apprentices; an early use of information for all pupils on all educational and professional opportunities in the field of teaching; the creation of so-called land occupations; general promotion of apprenticeship education abroad as well as various other points. I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, from the government groups: Voices To this request for something to go on! Then we can expect a meaningful apprenticeship training for the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e11745	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dolinschek has been properly tabled and will then be put to the vote. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] The next speaker was Mr Franz Riepl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e11860	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! At the beginning of my remarks, I would like to make a point of order on the urgent question of the liberals. On page 4, Harald Ettl is quoted in the last paragraph. However, Harald Ettlist is not, as mentioned in the question, the "former president of the trade union of textile workers", but he is the chairman of the trade union textile, clothing, leather. – I admit that this is a small matter, but it shows that the wording has not been done very carefully. But I understand, Mr Gaugg, that you have problems with the functions of union chairmen, where you are writing letters to entrepreneurs as chairman of a trade union movement, although this union is not yet in place, which is why you cannot be their chairman either. [[Abg. May. Stadler: I'm totally crushed!]] So: Let's stick to the truth! Writing letters to entrepreneurs and then taking sides for the workers shows a moral picture that is very clearly towards "once and once so". [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: You also pass with the "children's friends"!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] But honor who deserves honor, Mr. Gaugg. I would like to fully agree with a sentence that you have made in your speech. You said: "I man, i tram!". Mr Gaugg, you were right about that. Your speech was just a dream speech. – High regard, that does not bring anyone together from us! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the House! We are dealing with a change in the working environment: Fewer and fewer people are needed for winning, producing, preparing and repairing goods. More and more people will sell, calculate, consult, advise, treat, maintain or manage in the future. So: a changed world of work, which is naturally also reflected in employment. Our consequence, I believe, must be to recognize that in the future every industry will not be able to offer training in the same way as before, and therefore we also need alternatives. One of the alternatives we would like to propose is a stronger vocational education and training, just as a useful alternative. My colleague, Mr Tegischer, will address the vocational school, which would be such a possibility, in particular. We need further measures, measures for this year – it has been pointed out several times here. We believe that we should take advantage of the self-employed training facilities that we have, which work well and which guarantee high quality training, especially the existing capacities in this year. It is a question of allowing training associations to create, for example, an increase in the quality of apprenticeship training and thus also of youth employment. And not least, we need new professions – for which Federal Minister Farnleitner has already done a number of preparatory work – in order to take account of the change in the professional and working environment. Whether it's the electrical equipment engineer or the manufacturing engineer who's in discussion as a group teaching profession: There is a wide range of possibilities. The debate on the quantity of apprenticeships, as we have here today, must not lead to neglect of quality in apprenticeship training. That is why I think it would be a wrong way to say: We should do short lessons with little professional content! – The application, which has just been submitted by the liberals, also provides for part-time teaching, which would mean short teaching periods with little professional content and thus a poor qualification for our youth. In my opinion, less protection of youth and workers is also a wrong way. Less payment, as often demanded, is a wrong way. I believe that fewer social rights, fewer holidays – even for younger workers, as Maderthaner has just proposed – is also a wrong way. I believe that fewer holidays for everyone, including a proposal from the Chamber of Commerce or the President of the Chamber of Commerce, are also the wrong way. We should highlight quality both in the social field and in vocational training. Ladies and gentlemen! The proposals of the liberals are like that once and for all. For example, I quote from an issue for the reward of apprentices, who are in a paper of the liberals of 15th century. ==References== This calls for an increase in the compensation for apprentices, even now in the application. The reduction of collective contractual wages and also the compensation for apprentices were required by the same Freedom Party in December 1994. - Well, you don't know what you really want. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Nuremberger and Mr Haigermoser.]] – I am very grateful for your call, Mr Haigermoser, for the next one I am coming to speak to is that you are! ==References== In January 1995 the protection of workers was removed without replacement. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Who belongs to deleted?]] Workers' protection. That's what you've got on the 26th. January 1995 is required. Now, in your request, you say: It must be rethinked, one may even have to improve it, at least it is up-to-date. – This is in your broadcast of the 15th. ==References== [[Further call of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] So, what's now? Has he been abolished or updated? Does it belong to improved or worse? – You don't even know what you're doing. The policies, the proposals of the liberals are not predictable, they are simply incalculable! [[Abg. Haigermoser: We have seen this in Lower Austria, who comes up with his proposals!]] As always, the policy of the liberals is marked by the mauling, diffamating, assigning debt and condemning, in which they are strong, in which they are world champions! The political content of the liberal programme is scandalisation. The political content of the Government Party's programme is to continue to implement and enforce a labour market-enhancing policy, ladies and gentlemen. Assigned: It's not easy, but we're trying. But the liberals stop us from doing so. To give a final example: The urgent request also mentions a "wild growth in promotions". I'd like to admit: We too are not happy about the development of the promotions. The Secretary of State has already pointed out that this will be the subject of change in the course of this year. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] What does the Liberals' proposal to promote teaching establishments actually look like? – The proposal of the liberals is in fact different from the one they have just quoted. For example, at a meeting of the Vienna municipal council, Mr. Secretary-General Westenthaler called for the promotion of all teaching establishments in Austria. Apart from the fact that we are certainly unable to finance this, this shows how superficially the liberals deal with this issue. I already see Mr Secretary-General Westenthaler as a gardener in blue rubber boots: He goes around with a casting pot in every hand and gives any teaching firm promotions. [[Abg. Haigermoser: The same humour as always! There you have to go to the basementstoberl to laugh!]] That's your policy! I think we must make it clear that these are your proposals, but not proposals that are targeted. Mr Gaugg! The fact is that the policy of the Federal Government, of which you claim that it is destructive, has proved to be an educational place. In the past year, thanks to more teaching contracts than in the year before, there were unfortunately only 3 096 more than in the year before, but at least significantly more. I am convinced that we will continue along this path with our government partner, and I am confident that we will be able to cope with the problems this year too.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e11993	The next speaker is Mr Murauer. Speech time: 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e12015	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! When the last time an urgent debate on employment and apprentices took place, it was shortly before the Upper Austrian country elections. Mr Gaugg and Mr Haider made a similar statement at the time. Of course, you have not made any proposals, but only the situation in Austria and Upper Austria. The fact is that last year, especially in Upper Austria, there has been a special situation regarding the employment of young people, namely in the apprenticeship sector. The highest number of apprenticeships could be created or made available, i.e. 24 784, which is an increase of 5.3 percent. Mr Gaugg has called for hope and confidence to be signaled in this debate. Mr Gaugg! I have not noticed in your remarks an approach of hope, confidence, but they were characterized by disorientation and anxiety. And we can't identify with that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If at least you had put forward a proposal on what you are planning on employment policy! I would like to focus on youth employment and apprentices in particular today. The liberals claim that the Federal Government is pursuing a policy that destroys the teaching ground. Ladies and gentlemen! It is not an easy problem to solve, and of course we must be very concerned. And that is it, especially for the Austrian People's Party or for the entire Federal Government. We expect an increase in the number of 14 to 18 years old, which we need to meet, for which we have to offer solutions. We need to stimulate the economy to create appropriate youth jobs, apprenticeships. In this context, I should like to draw only to the point of order that dual training in our country constitutes a pillar for the quality of skilled workers. The dual training is seen internationally, worldwide, as a successful model, and our apprentices always win international prizes. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Austria is a good location for business settlements due to this skilled labourer potential. We must not see youth employment and unemployment on a flat-rate basis, but we must recognize the variety of problems that we have to solve separately. There are job seekers, but also trainees, there are weaker people who do not receive teaching, there are school leavers and school dropouts from the higher schools and so on. Our appeal and our common concern, ladies and gentlemen, must be – and that is it for the Austrian People's Party – to allow every youth to leave school to obtain a job, a training place in this country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Pre-vokers of the opposition parties – I am referring to Mr Mag’s comments in this context. Peter wondered, less about Mr Gaugg's - apparently forgot what we adopted and decided to do with the apprenticeship package 1. You can see that many things have already happened! We made a financial act last year. But not only has something happened financially, but we have also removed bureaucratic obstacles and made it easier for businesses. And the companies were ready to provide the youth with a huge increase in jobs, including the public hand to the federal army, which has also recruited more apprentices. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I can remind you that the age limit in the Child and Youth Employment Act has been reduced to 18 years, that the weekly rest period has been reduced from 48 to 43 hours, that window days can be introduced, that there is a calculation of the weekly working time, that the probation period has been extended to 6 weeks and so on. All these are things that go beyond the financial and signal the economy and the teaching companies: Yes, we are changing the conditions! We make it easier to give young people training places. In this general debate on employment and youth employment today, I should like to point out that it is not particularly serious if Mrs Gredler, as next speaker, will present a motion for a resolution on enlargement of the East. [[Abg. Dr Gredler: That's not serious?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Not at a urgent!]] Mrs. Colleague! I think it would be more serious to make a self-employed request so that we can discuss this on the broadest possible basis. [[Abg. Dr. Gredler: You can discuss this at any time!]] The issue is too important, it should not be dealt with simply by means of a motion for a resolution here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Youth employment should be further underlined in the apprenticeship package 2 of the ÖAAB and in the programme of the Austrian People's Party as a whole, and appropriate measures should be taken, measures, measures, Mr Haigermoser, in which I also invite the 'F', which is otherwise only a mischievous and apprehension, and in the direction that we can continue to employ the youth. Dear ladies and gentlemen! It also depends on the time factor, because the young people who come from compulsory school are already asking how and where they get teaching places to continue their education and to learn a profession. In this context, I should like to ask the Social Democrats not to delay, not to delay, to lose no time, but to decide with us the most important regulations in the coming months, by May at the latest. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Our goal is clear, ladies and gentlemen, We must and want to employ the youth! The economy needs skilled workers, and that's why we need apprentices. The youth wants to work – that is what the young people themselves tell us – and everyone who talks with young people will hear that. Young people want to be trained, they want to do something, they want to make an essential contribution in Austria to the establishment of prosperity and social standards. I should like to present to you the most important measures of the ÖAAB and the Austrian People's Party on youth employment: There must be a stronger wave of founders! [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] We need the starting jobs – even if you do not agree, Mr Haigermoser, that is necessary; but you will still be able to do so – which should be available for three months to two years to those graduates from higher schools who have the problem of not finding a job with theoretical training alone. For the apprenticeship offensive, it is necessary to make the apprenticeship compensation available for the first year of vocational training of the economy and later to introduce a qualification allowance. [[Abg. Haigermoser: What is now?! Again! That's crazy!]] It is also possible to secure training for these young people with the teaching of levels for the less talented. With regard to the new occupations, a faster admission should be given the floor. I would particularly like to stress that there are more opportunities for jobs in the health sector. One important element is that young people from 16 years of age can now work in tourism and gastronomy until 23 o'clock and that the proportions in the vocational training law are reduced. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] The professional information is available from the 4th and 8th respectively. In the case of vocational training, it is necessary to take account of the level of education. Ladies and gentlemen! Regional solutions are also to be addressed in this context, for example, that there can be a regional, regional, and local intervention group, in order to provide effective local employment solutions for young people. This proposal should also be included and implemented. It cannot be that we are based solely on financial support. It can only be done in one year that the municipalities, through the Länder, to the Federal Government and to the Labour Market Service, can provide financial resources to this extent, such as Siemens Fohnsdorf, ladies and gentlemen, where 34 million Schilling is being funded for 20 apprentices. This is a misunderstanding that is certainly not to be maintained! [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] The People's Party's concern is to ensure employment, training and work for young people.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e12156	Next speaker: Mrs Dr Gredler. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e12178	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kiss – is he here? [[Abg. Kiss is about to leave the meeting room.]] – Please stay You here, you're the first one I'd like to address. I have read your press release today, in which you have reported a visit to the EU's external border. You must have done that before 9:00. [[Abg. Kiss and Abg. Dr. Khol: At 6 o'clock in the morning!]] – You are, so to speak, an "early bird"! – You have apparently been frightened by organized crime there, otherwise I cannot explain your press release. In this it means – I may quote –: "Because of its exposed geographical situation at the EU's external border, Austria is facing the former Eastern Bloc States a specific threat in the form of organised crime." I have to say: Organized crime threatens us with and without the EU! Are we in agreement? [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I mean, the EU may improve the situation, but certainly not worsen! I would like to make a motion for a resolution in this context because I believe that the debate on enlargement is based on misunderstandings. The entry criteria of the candidate countries were defined in 1993 in the Copenhagen Council: stable, democratic and rule-of-law regulations; respect for human and minority rights; functioning market economy; the ability to withstand competitive pressure in the EU and the taking over of the European Union's obligations and objectives resulting from membership. These are the access criteria that the European Union itself has defined. I think it's a good basis for discussion. What you have mixed here and today are two very different things: It has been irresponsibly linked to the EU's enlargement of Austria's jobs. The concern about jobs in Austria has its right to do so, but now that it is in some way responsible for enlargement of the European Union, I do not think that it is the right way to access it. Therefore, on behalf of my group, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] The latter we have written in more detail in order to give the government parties who may be concerned the opportunity to agree to this motion for a resolution as well, and because we believe that, of course, we must pay particular attention to those regions which are at the borders with the Eastern European countries. On the one hand, we want good cooperation with these states. But if we say that we do not have any money for the enlargement of the East and that we should finance the enlargement of the EU budget, then we will have a problem. We have to bring the border regions there to such an extent that they provide a sufficiently high number of jobs for their own people so that migration becomes, as it were, unattractive. By the way, this one has long exceeded its peak. As all Eastern European countries confirm, this peak has been reached in 1989/1990. The people currently living in the Eastern European countries do not want migration to be as high as they are being condemned here. It is possible for a neighbor, for example for a Hungarian or a Slovenian, to come to Austria for a long time and find a job. Those who want this have been here for a long time, and the few who will still live up to it, we will still be holding out, ladies and gentlemen. According to the labour market service figures, in 1997, the number of unemployed foreigners from third countries, all third countries, fell by about 4,000 or 1.5 percent. I have to say: If this decline is true, I simply do not understand why the FPÖ puts these fears in the room. I think it is unfortunate that the animosities that some people have in relation to the enlargement of the East are being used, because they fear for their jobs, to pursue political policy. What I don't understand at all is that the president of the FPÖ, Thomas Prinzhorn, in a press release of the 2nd. In March it declared that it considered Easter enlargement to be absolutely unnecessary. According to my information Mr Prinzhorn in Hungary companies, and these are not bad at all! He appreciates Hungary's work extremely, at least it does not seem to slumber directly into poverty. So I do not understand why it is against the enlargement of the East, although it is well aware that this is an interesting market! It's totally unexplainable to me. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Through the enlargement of the East, Europe is experiencing an expansion of its market by 100 million citizens. That must be economically interesting! I do not understand that it is against opening up the market, but against the fact that our Austrian industry should be able to find a larger market and better opportunities to secure jobs. I can't understand that. I personally share the view of the Brussels Commission, which, in its calculations for the EU financial framework from 2000 to 2006, concludes that, if you accept economic growth of 2.5 percent and base the calculations, Easter enlargement will actually finance itself. I would therefore like this so-called net payment debate, which is also being startled by the government, to end. We are, I believe, able to take advantage of the budget and of the resources that have never been exhausted until the last year – we must also say that there are a few million left behind – and that we are considering economic growth without any fear of expanding the East. My last sentence applies to colleagues from the other parliaments who follow our debates indirectly. They are horrified at the way in which we debate enlargement. I wish that we would receive them with open arms and that we should be prepared to build a common Europe with them.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e12264	The motion for a resolution, tabled by Mrs Gredler, is in accordance with the rules of procedure and is included in the negotiations. I give the floor to Mrs Haller as next speaker. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have required a four-minute voluntary limit on speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e12296	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! For years, this government has promised us the creation and maintenance of jobs. At the beginning of this year, our Federal Chancellor spoke again of a new full employment. We all know, however, that the facts are different. According to "Kurier" of 4. The unemployment rate rose from 4.1 to 4.5 percent in February this year. There has been a dramatic increase in unemployment among women. It has doubled compared to that of the men and has risen by 3.7 percent. We all know, however, that women's hidden unemployment is particularly high. If Mrs Schmidtleitner says from the ÖGB that the social policy trends are increasingly directed against women, she certainly knows what she is saying, but I always miss the cry of the ÖGB women here in Parliament. For the measures taken recently, which have harmed women, namely the reduction of the time of leave, the problems of working contracts, stagnation in active labour market policy is the Federal Chancellor, you, Mr State Secretary, are responsible. On the occasion of the women's day, a scientist, Hans Peter Martin, said that, on the basis of these facts, a merciless competition for the remaining jobs is taking place. And that's just the reality. He also said that women were the "Ossis" on the labour market in Austria. [[Abg. Silhavy: Tell the economy, Mrs Haller!]] – No, I say that of politics, because politics creates the framework conditions that the economy cannot react to. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Further call of the Abg. Silhavy.]] – Mrs Colleague, you can then talk here if you want! 98 percent of full-time jobs in the last ten years have been created for men. In our view, it is not just a blockade to the implementation of necessary social policy reforms that is responsible for increasing the problems, but not just for women. It is already very strange, surprising and not honest when the Federal Chancellor on the other hand supports the popular desire for women, which is currently being advised. I think it is very sad that there has been an expert hearing and six subcommittee meetings, but effective solutions are de facto not in sight to this day. [[Abg. Silhavy: With what right do you descend and talk about women's policy? You voted against everything created for women, Mrs Haller!]] It is also very significant, Mrs Colleague, if the expert of the Upper Austria Chamber of Labour, with whom you should be quite good, calls for the tax relief of income and businesses as the best solution. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This seems to me very familiar as a liberal. I simply find you and your course of action unreliable and will be confirmed in it – you can still shout like that, I'm louder – by a statement by the head of a Styrian labour market service office to read in the "Small Newspaper" of 11. 2. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy]] [[Abg. Silhavy: This is the only thing you are!]] It has seen an increase in women's unemployment between 15 and 25 percent in its area and believes it will be even more difficult in the longer term. In general, it places a situation in which it will become even more difficult, under the word "South-East opening". He says literally: "We are not prepared for that, and this is mainly true of small and medium-sized enterprises." That is why I make the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e12418	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is in accordance with the rules of procedure and is under negotiation. As the next speaker, I give the floor to Mrs Tegischer. – Madam honourable Member, the speaking time available to you is 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e12442	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Mrs Haller! We have tried to take a number of measures here in the house. They did not vote in favour of any measure. I have to make this clear. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haller.]] If you say that policy lays down the framework conditions, then that is true, but you must also determine them. Let me now come to another subject. As far as the question is concerned, I should like to say first of all that not necessarily the Federal Chancellor is the primary address, but rather the Minister of Economic Affairs. Let me explain this claim in my contribution to the debate. As a youth speaker, I would like to focus on youth employment and apprenticeship training. I assume that we – including the coalition partner – agree that the dual training system should be maintained. Therefore, it is necessary that the economy also declare itself willing to make its contribution and to provide the necessary teaching places, because the slogan "Career with Teaching" should not be an empty phrase. I know that it is always about financing apprenticeship training, but I do not wish to mention that sound training and job provision are the prerequisites and guarantee for social peace. I would also like to say that the economy benefits most from well-trained professionals. At the initiative of the ÖGB President Vergestnitsch, a request was made together with the President of the Federal Chamber of Commerce in 1996 which includes a series of measures to develop the current apprenticeship training and create jobs. We have really tried vehemently to meet these demands, but I must say: It is useless if the economy does not also make its contribution! I have already pointed out in my speech in March 1997 that financing the training of young people would be a realistic way to compensate for the burden between trainees and non-trainers. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: New taxes!]] This possibility has been raised in the above-mentioned application as a call for members of the government, but has not yet been implemented. However, since the economy has agreed to this proposal, it would be time to express a clear sense of will. Now on another issue, which I consider very important. For the future of training and the creation of jobs especially in the youth sector, a change in our existing school system is necessary. Many proposals and ideas have already been discussed, especially in my group. In particular, I would like to point out that, in the school system, we must finally move from selection to qualification, we must not drive on rails, but we must build a modular school system. I would like to mention here that many apprentices are due to the high drop-out rate in higher education schools. In the HTL area, it is about 70 percent. It is therefore important that we design the school system in a modular way. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meisinger.]] Higher education schools should be networked, ensuring that young people who are weak and socially disadvantaged do not fall through the rust or that they can use special forms of training. I do not necessarily regard the part of the teaching as the means of saving these young people discrimination on the labour market. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The vocational school, already mentioned by my colleague Riepl, or, as the new term now means, the vocational school classes, I see as an effective alternative to conventional apprenticeship training. Of course, regional sectoral claims must be taken into account, and the student must at any time have the opportunity to take up an apprenticeship if one is offered but also to return to school. This interaction between training and practice should be constant. I would like to mention the importance of extending the existing subjects of education. In my view, there is still a little too little to be done in this area, because in order to be able to exist on the labour market, not only is the acquisition of knowledge needed, but also emotional and social skills, such as team ability, languageism and relationships with one another. I would like to say in principle, even though many are very pessimistic: Youth unemployment fell by 2 percent compared to the previous year. This is certainly no reason to turn back or break into jubilant storms, but it proves that the measures we have considered are already taking place. My group's main objective and, as I suppose, some others are the elimination of unemployment and job creation. For this we will continue to use our whole strength. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haller.]] It would be urgent that the opposition, in particular the FPÖ, should make constructive proposals and that its contribution should not be exhausted only in the place of urgent requests. [[Abg. Meisinger: You just need to read them!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e12537	Mrs Mag. Kammerlander. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e12559	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen. The problem we have with the urgent questions of the liberals is that they are always a potpourri. You should agree in advance on what we should actually discuss. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] I think all the topics you're looking at are important and urgent. I consider the question of constantly rising unemployment to be very important. I think that the issue of Easter enlargement is extremely important and worthy of being discussed here in detail. However, I also consider the question of the apprenticeship offensive and the competition that is now being created in the AMS sector to be very, very important. For example, I think that this would be enough for a urgent one. It is true that the Federal Government is always taking a similar approach here when it comes to essential areas, whether it be the option report or the employment programme. There is a lot of talk about it, we occasionally read some sort of paper, but otherwise we Members hardly know anything. There is, for example, no satisfactory parliamentary deliberations on the field of the national employment programme. Now I come to a substantial area which, as I said, would fill out a urgent one alone, and that is the situation that is now happening in the federal states, in the districts, in the area of the AMS. It can be seen that the Federal Government has obviously taken over. Firstly, there has been an offensive towards women's employment and a number of programmes and measures. Then the apprentice offensive was proclaimed. And now it is about recruiting the necessary resources in these areas to set aside the national employment programme. To this end, you can see what you can now read more and more often in the newspapers: All these offensives and all these programmes compete each other, because it is always about the same means. The result is that massively at the expense of the women's employment programmes, women's skills programmes are saved, that much is deleted. In the first phase of this year, much has been taken back in favour of an apprenticeship offensive or the testing of an apprenticeship offensive, because one cannot or cannot yet speak of an offensive, and now more and more is being reduced to give at least a little contour to the general national employment programme. We will be able to discuss this in the Committee on Budgets and in the plenary in the next few weeks. We will then also be able to put some specific figures and facts on the table, which show where there has been a little saving and deletion of the women's employment programmes. They all probably also received one or another letter from one or another of the women's counsellors who now have to give up qualification programmes, even though she had very good placement rates, even though a course or a programme had high success rates. And I am concerned because in this area you are always cascasing, rehearsing and not taking any action at all. What's more, is: You play the one population against the other! With regard to social initiatives, those initiatives that concern not only women but also disabled people or long-term unemployed people, on Friday 13th. A complete catalogue of questions was sent to the Federal Government, specifically to the Minister for Social Affairs. We will see what the Minister for Social Affairs will answer. But if they do not answer, then I can promise you that we will be very useful to the budget negotiations over the next few weeks in order to address these questions to you and get to the bottom of these things. Because you do not need to believe that you could now create a national employment programme without our being careful about what is being saved and where. I shall now come to the second issue, to the enlargement of the East, because there are also several applications for it. It would also be worth the Easter enlargement that we are dealing with it very thoroughly not only in the context of a urgent request, but also in a very detailed way. I would like to say the following in the direction of the liberals: Mrs Haller, you are quite right with one or another. It's true, we're not prepared for Easter enlargement. We are not yet prepared for it, we are not currently prepared for it. You are right, therefore, if you make a request which, as far as I am able to follow this acoustically, also speaks of tax harmonisations. But you have to decide once on the part of the liberals: Are you now for the EU or against the EU? Do you want to advance a project within the European Union or not? However, you cannot be here at the speaker's desk and you can bet against the European Union again and again, but you may very well have Members in the European Parliament. You can't stand here and compete against an Easter enlargement, which will then be used in election struggles to make the mood at the lowest level, and on the other hand you will make a request where you suddenly come up with what you have to do about it. I think it is a prerequisite that you should first clarify your political programme in this direction. Then we could talk more seriously about it. You also address the social and environmental standards in your request. If that is true, Mr Gredler has pointed out here with regard to Mr Prinzhorn, namely that he has or is involved in businesses in Hungary and in other Eastern European countries, and that there is no enlargement of the EU, that he also benefits from the fact that there are no regulated social and environmental standards in these countries, that workers are still cheaper there than we do, that there is no tax harmonisation which you are asking for in your contributions to the debate, then the answer is quite clear, and it can only say: The whole thing you've offered here today is very contradictory! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We are in favour of talking about the EU enlargement project. It could be the peace project of Europe. We must address the risks of security, namely social and economic inequalities in Europe. Only in conjunction with an EU enlargement can we talk about tax harmonisation. That is, I am right in that, and I miss this in Mrs Gredler's request. There are several conditions that need to be met in order to be able to seriously consider EU enlargement. This includes tax harmonisation. There must be a minimum consensus on labour relations and social standards, there must be something like a Europeanisation of labour relations. That's to be written down. In our view, it will also be essential to consider a European financial compensation system. Let's not do anything! The structural funds currently available in the European Union do not go any further. You can see that now. Only money flows from one pot to another. The proposals for changes to the Structural Funds which are currently on the table show this quite clearly. There is, moreover, a replay of the population groups against each other, the playing out of the women's employment programmes and the disability employment programmes against EU enlargement towards Eastern European countries. That shows the dilemma. Then: One cannot now finance a programme for EU enlargement by means of a fund that was founded at a time when the European Union had a very different form than now. This will only work if we encourage ourselves to think at all that there must be a European financial compensation system; otherwise this project cannot work. I am in favour of the enlargement of the EU to include debate on this because I consider this project to be very necessary and important. If we do not do that, then all that you repeatedly paint on the wall, namely the pressure on wages, the social standards, the environmental standards. Actually, this is the case now. This does not happen until we realize the enlargement of the EU. All of this is increased year after year. In fact, we only have one possibility or only one chance: to approach this project "EU enlargement" and to define what is necessary and important, instead of drawing ghosts on the wall, as was the case in the last elections, and to warn that cheap workers come to us. If there is no EU enlargement, it will be reversed: Farms will be relocated, and there or there people will be required to immigrate or migrate to have work at all, and we will be required to lower our standards. There is already a danger – I am already at the last sentence – that wage levels will fall. [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign]] We will not agree to the request of the liberals, because we believe that it is a matter of course and does not contain precisely those conditions which we believe are important.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e12671	The next item is the speech by Mr Haigermoser. Mr deputies, you still have a speaking time of 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e12692	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! A clear word: We are against enlargement of the EU, for good reason. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If tax harmonisation has not even taken place in the EU until now and homework has been done, then the differences that exist with the Eastern countries will probably not happen there in a few years. What you, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties, have listed here today was a embarrassing ping-pong game: Class struggle was played a little bit, but behind the scenes was packed again. Ladies and gentlemen! In this way, you will not advance a sensible economic policy. Mr Wittmann, State Secretary! Pot Blitz! You've been through the temperament today. You've knocked up on the government bank to save your office, perhaps – but the shot has gone to the back. But that's what you need to do. Ladies and gentlemen! "Potz Blitz!" could be said to all the reports you have sent us to the house: Data on apprenticeship training, 1993 et cetera survey, all good results. [[Abg. Dr. Dr. Drinkl: 1993?]] 1993! – Where have they been implemented? All projects have disappeared in the drawer. Last year, Mr. Klima's red "Lehrlingstelephon" was the pipe-creper par excellence. The mountain cried and a bat was born, ladies and gentlemen! More than 3,000 apprentices have stayed on the street. Then you quickly introduced state apprenticeships. But the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has been sparse. Mrs. Tichy-Schreder! Today, they have deliberately said the untruth. [[Abg. Wabl: Again!]] We demanded from the opposition parties – including Helmut Peter – that we start discussions in the old year. You said: Immediately after the holidays – please correct me if I say something wrong! – the dates are agreed. Today is the end of March. No deadline has been set for a meeting of the apprenticeship subcommittee on the treatment of the opposition programmes. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You've dragged things away, fogged them, you turn things under the carpet, because you won't agree in this coalition. The social partners play Pingpong, ladies and gentlemen, and do not solve any problem. This is the truth, Mrs. Tichy-Schreder, and you have a bad conscience. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: A bad conscience? You can't know that!]] I know. But that does not help the apprentices, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Wittmann. If Once you have finally analysed the results of the country elections in Lower Austria very carefully, as Mr Klima has formulated, then you may come to realize that your policy – your apprenticeship policy, your labour market policy – is responsible for the fact that the voters in Lower Austria have run away in crowds. It is not my job to break my head, but in the service of the working population, the businesses would have to consider and ask themselves whether the policy you are doing is not wrong. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There is a recent survey result, which says that there is an apprenticeship frustration in the firms. It is noted that the social partners are under time pressure. I wonder, When do the social partners, who, according to your statements, have the high level of solution in this country, finally do something about it? It also says: Businesses need rapid clarity about what measures are planned at national level and how they are implemented, otherwise more than 11 000 job seekers will remain on the streets this year. – That would be more than in the previous year. Ladies and gentlemen! This investigation has been commissioned by the Economic Association, a branch association of the ÖVP. Who's the black painter now? Is it the liberals, or is it your coalition partner, ladies and gentlemen of the left half of the empire? Dissatisfied, it goes on to say, are the enterprises with the apprenticeship offensive 1997. Mr. Drinkl! In view of this, you are still going out here and you are congratulating the social democratic plans that the companies are once again pushing! [[Abg. Dr. Dr. Drinkl shakes his head.]] What you've given of you today as an economic chamberer was embarrassing. Friend! This one of your appearances today was unworthy of you. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: You didn't listen because you're always talking in between! You're talking by! You're talking about the 93er report! Prepare better!]] Ladies and gentlemen! As a Janus-spective Member, you go with a double floor in the tornister, not with the marshal staff, yet here and demand that the Luxembourg model now finally – oh God! – had to be introduced, because with this – Madethaner, see if! – 16 000 jobs would be created immediately. But in the case of the applications concerning the introduction of the Luxembourg model, you fall back every time, ladies and gentlemen. And that's why the voters don't believe you anymore. You, Mr Wittmann, do not at all benefit from your playing the government rump. You should finally go about meeting the wishes of the people, ladies and gentlemen. That you don't do that is the problem you have. Mr. Drinkl! I still have an account with you today. You meant that there was now a wave of creation on the basis of the new trade regulations. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Drinkl.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] Sub-sector: 17 new foundations in a quarter of a year. And you have also turned down the statistics – this is my last sentence – by including the number of re-establishments in the statistics. This is referred to as "11 000 new foundings". [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: That's not true! That's a false claim!]] This is a sad measure you have put there! I believe that the concepts of the liberals on the table should be implemented. Work and apprenticeships will then be created again.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e12827	The next item is the speech by Mrs Bures. Ladies and gentlemen, you still have a speaking time of 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e12857	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! At the end of the discussion, I must say that I am very glad that the insecurity strategy of the liberals has not taken place and that the unbearable play with the fears of unemployed people has not arrived. I think people can see this through. The only thing that causes you satisfaction is the painting of the devil on the wall. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We do not belong to those who reject positive data – these have already been mentioned today – and say: That would be so, but we are taking very concrete action with the "National Action Plan", which will be discussed in the next few weeks. It will also contain concrete objectives for the fight against unemployment. We have made it a national task to engage in the fight against youth unemployment. Whether it suits you or not: They also note that, after 20 years, it has been possible for the first time to achieve a higher number of apprenticeships, and we are investing 7.5 billion schilling in active labour market policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I cordially invite you to be active in the field of women's employment. This is where the economy is called for, but policy must create the conditions for it. You can join our demand that there should be a right to part-time work if you have to fulfil child care obligations. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would now like to make a brief point of what the FPÖ has presented here today: The recipe of the liberals foresees a reduction in wages and salaries, and a reduction in social protection. [[Abg. Böhacker: That's incredible!]] Workers' protection laws, in the opinion of the Freemans, must be repealed. A quote from the liberals is: "Teacher protection provisions belong away!" A officer from your party said: "Teachers are lice that paralyze the operation!" and "Women return to the flock!" [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haider.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] We strongly reject these proposals, which are in despicable to your human beings.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e12922	The next item is Mrs Schaffenrath's speech. Ladies and gentlemen, you still have a speaking time of 9 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e12952	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Bures, if you kindly emphasize that for the first time in Austria there are more apprenticeships as an absolute highlight of the apprenticeship package, then I can only say one thing: This is actually the way you are refusing to do reality! The reckoning of a plus at teaching places after an absolute low level and after a massive shopping action by teaching institutions without any structural approach, so this self-respect already has for me, as I would like to say, an offensive aspect. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Now to the women's question a few comments. The Liberals are very unhappy that the ÖVP and the SPÖ could not even agree on minimum demands in connection with women's people's desire, at least not so far. Mrs Haller! You yourself presented the proposals of your own group at the last subcommittee meeting. To say no to most of the demands of the women's people's desire, at least the 650 000 signatorys of popular desire will not be enough. You have made little or no contribution to this because the proposals that you have made are anything but women-friendly. Mr Bures is right if she thinks that these proposals would actually bring women back to the herd. But now to today's urgent request of the liberals. I must give right to the liberals on many issues concerning active labour market policy and the question of apprentices. Unfortunately, it is a fact that the funds of labour market support are used for other projects, such as pension payments. Mr Kammerlander has already pointed out that the play of apprentices against women and vice versa has an impact on women. Innumerable qualification projects and countless women's projects are set up from one month to another, because their funding is no longer guaranteed. In view of the current labour market situation in Austria, it is embarrassing that the expenditure of Austria for an active labour market policy, which has been so highly praised here, is located at the bottom of the European comparison. There's a real need for rethinking. It was Mr Peter who has already pointed out that there are jobs in those areas in which qualifications represent an essential element. But if we do not start in the field of qualification, we will not be able to serve these jobs. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would now like to say a few words on the motion for a resolution of the liberals concerning the discharge of Austrian training establishments and the appeal of teaching. The reason for this is that there are still a few points which would show that the situation on the teaching centre market, which was very drastic and very clearly presented, is much more explosive. For example, it has been overlooked that there has been a lot of only one-off training courses last year and that many young people are in temporary training and vocational guidance programmes. These young people, too, will continue to push on the apprenticeship market. However, I have a problem with this motion for a resolution. I'm actually looking at him more than an alibi action from your side. I do not think it wise to sum up 14 different points of high quality in a resolution. It contains points which we would like to give approval, but there are also some points in it, of which we believe that the Freedom Party is thus joining the rather complaining repair attempts of the coalition. I would like to support point 1, in which grants for apprentices are required. But there is already a problem with the flat-rate training allowances of 30 percent – that is, you cement yourself to prevent other structural approaches. We believe that we must redesign the dual education system in the way that we introduce not only different educational objectives with a different duration, but also better education. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Next point: Failure to take into account the compensation for apprentices in calculating the basis of assessment for the municipal tax. This does not really matter to entrepreneurs. I'd agree, but that's just a drop on the hot stone. This is not a structural change, but it is just a small financial discharge. There are quite other problems to be solved – if you talk to the entrepreneurs, you will find out – such as problems related to the vocational training law and the problem that there is a lack of qualified candidates, something which the entrepreneurs constantly complain about. As far as your demand for the legal provision of an annual minimum increase in the compensation of apprentices is concerned, I must say: Your position on this point is contradictory, because on the one hand you complain of the high financial costs that the firms have to bear and on the other hand you demand increases and that existing differences in the field of apprenticeship compensation be cemented. One has to ask the question of why a person who is trained as a hairdresser earns only about a third of what a mason teacher can demand. The point 5, professional orientation, is done more or less in itself. – In my opinion, a reorganisation of apprenticeship training through a reform of the Polytechnic School cannot be achieved. There's a need for deeper approaches. As an application for an improved and compulsory training of vocational education and training teachers, I would like to tell you that there is already such compulsory training. I would like further training to be given to you, but this point does not even correspond to the intention of your clubman, who may have better recognized the problem, but it is not written down here. We need cooperation between businesses and the vocational school, and we need at all to develop the vocational school into vocational training centres which ensure an improved supply. There are many points to mention, but only one of them I would like to draw attention to because the Liberal Group criticised the EIA with social-democratic approaches. – If you call for the creation of so-called land professions, Mr Haigermoser obviously does not think of the structure of our training companies. We have small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the main promoters of training. So-called land professions are not suitable, but we could discuss a pedestal training, a pedestal qualification with a later specialization for different areas. As part of the BAG you only address the probationary period, but there are many other points to the discussion. You run into my open doors when you demand a level playing the master's exam with the B-Matura. But you see: I cannot accept this motion for a resolution which you have tabled today, perhaps to give weight to your request, and also to have an alibi for apprentices, because of some of the inconsistencies that have now been shown. However, we can at any time discuss many of these points which we have tabled individually in motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e13051	The last speaker in this debate is Mrs Haidlmayr. It has a speaking time of 5 minutes available. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e13072	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! This urgent question of the liberals has therefore surprised me today, because, obviously, the liberals have already agreed to the unemployment situation of disabled people: There is no word in your urgent question about disabled people and unemployment. It is not a single question, although you know, ladies and gentlemen, that unemployment of disabled people is already more than 70 per cent, if you fairly count on those employed in employment facilities up to eight hours a day and do not receive 500 s per month. But that's no longer a subject for you, and that's not a subject in this house for a long time, except for the Greens. For years, we have been calling for the compensatory tax to be increased at last. – But nothing has happened! Around 2010 S per month you can buy free of the obligation of a disabled workplace. And this makes use not only of the economy, but also of the ÖGB, the church institutions, the federal government and the countries. Just one example: In the Ministry of the Interior, 1041 places of planning should be occupied with disabled people, but there are only words and writing 643 disabled people! In the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the situation is similar: Also there are 718 jobs not awarded to this day. On the contrary: You buy yourself loosely free with 2010 S in the month – and with this the thing is done. The following must also not be mentioned: If companies today award orders to disabled institutions, they can recover 15 percent of the order amount via the compensation tax fund. The trend in Austria is that payments which can be recovered through the compensation tax fund are already higher than those they make in the compensation tax fund. This means that disabled people's unemployment is becoming increasingly involved. Disabled people have been pushed away: somewhere in employment facilities, where they are not even socially insured until now, let alone insured with accident, pension or unemployment. All these social benefits exist for disabled people as well as not for disabled people. But you seem to have already found yourself, ladies and gentlemen. The situation would be, if there were political will to change immediately, and it would be possible for disabled people to actually receive jobs and jobs created for them. It was only necessary to raise the compensatory tax to a level that it was equally expensive for the company or the authority to hire or not to hire a disabled person. In my opinion, only if the free buy-out option costs as much as an attitude would many companies be willing to deal with this situation and try it with the appointment of a person with disabilities. But in the future, it will be absolutely impossible to teach disabled people a job. Ladies and gentlemen! It is clearly not enough and completely thought in the wrong direction if you are in the action "Light in the dark" on 24 April. Put the cameras in front of the cameras on December and try to clarify what they would not do for disabled people. – The "result" shows itself year after year, day after day in our legislation, and also in the field of unemployment becomes clear what you really do: For years you have been practicing in ignorance, and for years you have simply not seen the problem of disabled people; That's why they don't treat it anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e13121	There is no more word message for this. The debate is closed. I would ask you to take the places because we are going to vote on three motions for resolutions. I'll wait until Mrs. Haidlmayr is in her place. First of all, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dolinschek and Mr Comrades on the discharge of Austrian training establishments and the appeal of teaching. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gredler and Mr Comrades on EU enlargement. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Thirdly, we are voting on the motion for a resolution by Mr Haigermoser and Mr Comrades on enlargement of the EU. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e13196	We now come to hold a brief debate, which concerns the request made by Mr Wabl, the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on Amendment 549/A (E) concerning the refusal of confidence to the Federal Minister for Defence of the State. ==References== The vote on this request will take place at the end of this debate. We are now beginning the debate. I would remind you that the applicant has a speaking time of 10 minutes, that all other Members have a speaking time of 5 minutes; Comments from members of the Federal Government or State Secretary should not last more than 10 minutes. I now begin by giving the floor to the applicant, Mr Wabl. – You have a speech time of 10 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e13226	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! You will certainly remember all the discussions we have had in this House in connection with the conduct and statements of the Federal Minister for State Defense, when the Minister of State for Defence not only referred to the country but also to certain events abroad, which clearly conflict with the Austrian Constitution. You will certainly remember all of them, such as the coalition partner SPÖ, especially the clubman of SPÖ, Dr. Kostelka, with massive criticism of the statements of the Federal Minister Fassleven. This one has announced abroad, the Austrians, the Austrians already call themselves as if we were NATO members. Ladies and gentlemen! That there is the desire of the great ÖVP – the still great ÖVP – to enter the large military alliance is legitimate. [[Abg. Auer: In the future: even bigger ÖVP!]] The fact that Mr Khol has formulated this is also legitimate. The fact that there are party decision-making, Mr Maitz is a glowing NATO worshiper and admiring General Clark is also legitimate, ladies and gentlemen. But it is not legitimate and non-constitutional if the Federal Minister for the Defence of the State pretends that Austria is already a NATO member. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! At that time the coalitionary peace between SPÖ and ÖVP could still be established, and Mr Klubobmann Kostelka could still be calmed down. He was close to trying at least to put pressure on the ÖVP in the event of a mistrust of the opposition. Ladies and gentlemen! We then filed a motion of censure because there were smooth breaks of the Minister of Defence in connection with the Austrian Constitution, the Neutrality, the Austrian Defense Doctrine. Now, ladies and gentlemen, it turns out that the Minister for Defence in the Council of State, in the Budget Committee, has said the untruth in Parliament, in connection with procurement procedures, in which the passion of the Minister of Defence for NATO accession has obviously been re-established. He has led his coalition partner, the SPÖ, to vote in favour of a tank package with a deception maneuver, by presenting the argument that it is currently a particularly favourable range of tanks from Germany and the Netherlands, and it therefore has to be bought, because we cannot let this occulation pass so to speak. The fact that the Minister of State’s defence thus carried out a rather classic entry-level business that NATO started and also carried out with many accession aspirers did not understand – or did not want to understand – the coalition partners of SPÖ at that time. That is the question that is being discussed here today. But at the time the SPÖ club voted massively against this purchase of tanks and expressed its position in the public, knowing that this entry into NATO was obviously already a precondition for certain further start-ups with respect to the accession of NATO and was in the interest of the ÖVP and Foreign Minister Schüssel. In order to minimise this pressure in order to make the SPÖ balanced, Minister of Defense Fassleven has given the comrades of Social Democrats the following: Previewed: Dear comrades! We're not just buying NATO tankers around this amount of 6 billion schilling, these make up only a very small part, just 2 billion schilling. Most of these 6 billion schillings, namely 4 billion schillings, are spent on Austrian value added, for PANDUR and ASSOD, for Austrian products. With this, Fassleven has found open ears at the trade unions. The trade unionists are on the march and have put Klubobmann Kostelka under pressure as well as the Federal Chancellor. This argument occurred in the Defence Council: 6 billion Schilling is the tank package, of which 4 billion benefit the Austrian industry, which means 4 billion schilling for Austrian value added and for Austrian jobs. This broke the resistance of Klubobmann Kostelka, and Fassleven was able to enforce his NATO purchase, ladies and gentlemen. Now, two years later, it turns out: In answer to a question, the Ministry of Defence must admit that those tanks which seemed essential to NATO's entry into the market have already been acquired by the Minister of Defence as a NATO friend and that these already account for the value that was then taken and approved by the SPÖ. Now it turns out: If those tanks were actually purchased from Steyr, namely ASSOD and PANDUR, then this total package would make up almost 11 billion schilling. Ladies and gentlemen! The contracts with the company Steyr are not even signed. They have not even been negotiated in large parts, let alone that any Austrian job with this money would have been created or secured. If this can be done by the coalition partner SPÖ if Mr Klubobmann Kostelka can be liked, this is your case. However, this House cannot be fooled by a Minister of Defence who, in an attack of great "workplace security", believes that he can win the representatives of the Council of State Defense with this argument for procurement policy and for NATO entry into business. Federal Minister Fassleven cannot deceive Parliament and the Council of State Defense because this is ready for a mistrust! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Remember what this tank package has cost up to now: the 114 LEOPARD fighters already used by the Dutch army 2.5 billion Schilling, and the 91 JAGUAR missile fighter tank 1.35 billion Schilling and the HOT missile package, which was obviously a package – the Minister of State has also been silent to the Council of State Defense. He also kept silent that a business had already been established with DASA in Germany, which had long been packed and which the comrades obviously either knew nothing about – or wanted to know nothing about. This kind of information policy, Ladies and gentlemen, this deception maneuvered by the Minister of Defence. If you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, can do so, then I can no longer follow your policy of peacekeeping, as your policy towards that tradition is in the SPÖ, which has been aimed at peacekeeping, partly also at pacifism. They willfully follow a Minister of Defense and renunciate his deception. Ladies and gentlemen! The Greens have tabled a motion of censure in the Constitutional Committee. If you still do not want to deal with this, ladies and gentlemen, then this is the right of the majority, but it is not your right to continue to discuss this matter publicly, to deceive Austrian taxpayers and to support a Minister of Defence, who obviously runs a clear NATO strategy here. That's what we're going to cross! We won't let that happen!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e13285	The further word messages are now subject to a speaking time limit of 5 minutes. The next speaker is Dr. Maitz, Member of Parliament. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e13309	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Wabl has been thinking – and Wabl has come to the realization that his distrust proposal of 11th century [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Maitz can't do that!]] In July 1997 the public saw him become a political pleasure. Why? – Because the reasoning was curious to nonsense. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Presentations, brochures, statements of opinion in front of the Senior Confederation – these were all very "essential" statements that the Federal Government should have been putting into trouble. Curios and nonsense! So Wabl had to invent a scandal. [[Abg. Wabl: Do you also say that to your coalition partner?]] The old roller will be put on again. Government procurements are being scandalized by the green federal armymen in advance, although they do not yet know what the conclusions will look like. What is the background of this Wable Theater Donner? I'm giving an APA report of 16. November 1996 again: Minister Fassleven announced in the Defence Council that, on a price-based basis, in 1996, the equipment to be purchased will total 6 billion schilling in the individual price: the JAGUAR, LEOPARD, the brand-new ULAN and PANDUR. ==References====External links== In January 1998, he asked for the total cost, including the spare parts. He also asks for the time frame of financing. – The Federal Minister's answer is: If one actually assumes the price situation that is not yet established in the factory's new tanks, then the device price plus financing costs plus spare part costs – your request was that – plus thermal imaging equipment is expected to account for 10.79 billion schilling. [[Abg. Wabl: Are you phantasing – or are you reading?]] – All of this could have been experienced by Mr Wabl in a telephonate without any doubt, but at least he could have read papers, because that was exactly what was in the paper. [[Abg. Wabl: May we not ask a parliamentary question...?]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Do you have to telephon?]] [[Further calls to the Greens.]] However, he could not have played this scandalous story here and today again. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Can't the Minister write?]] So I'm holding on: In 1996, Mr Fassleven gave correct information on the expected individual prices of the equipment that had been intended to purchase. In 1998, Federal Minister Fassleven announced the total cost after the current negotiations, the financing costs, the spare part costs – the thermal image camera – and the individual costs. [[Abg. Wabl: Tell us what the HOT system costs!]] It's not related to that at all! The political leadership has therefore acted correctly. In any event, the Austrian Federal Army has to make purchases under the most difficult financial conditions, which are each time scandalized by the Green MEPs in exactly the same way. We therefore reject from the ÖVP the fact that the serious concern of military national defence is being misused as a "green" playing field for artificial excitement.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e13442	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Tychtl. - Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e13463	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! It is, in fact, the case that on 10 October, it was the case. A recommendation on the purchase of the Mech package was adopted in the Council of State Defense on December 1996. We have often called for this Mech package because we believe that our federal army needs these required devices to meet the requirements. It is indeed true that there are parts that we have to request again today, because they have not been made available to that extent, as was then announced. [[Abg. Wabl: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Maitz) Is the coalition partner now imagining, too, Mr. Maitz?]] Mr Wabl is obviously also in the process of phantasing, and he is not willing to listen because he obviously ran into a situation from which he cannot differ. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I would now like to present my position and the position of my group. We are particularly concerned that we have at the time meant that we are supporting this Mech package for the reason I have already mentioned and for another: We believe that this will allow us to give orders to the Austrian economy through an order and thus also to secure jobs. And that's where my criticism is. I believe that the Federal Minister will succeed, and that it will succeed as soon as possible in concluding corresponding contracts with the supply works. And I assume that next Monday – there will be another meeting of the Council of State Defense, and Mr Wabl will be able to put this point back there again. I am particularly concerned about taking advantage of this opportunity today to demand once again the wheel tanks we are demanding, especially the PANDUR, because I believe – I have had opportunity to visit this device in the last few weeks – that something be done quickly for our federal army. On the one hand, the 68 devices have to be delivered, but they still have individual defects. And above all, the following problem has occurred: There are for the so-called prepared units – these are those units that we send when it comes to designing peacekeeping and peacekeeping measures – no equipment for the sanitators. And I think everyone has to expect an accident to happen once. We don't want it, we don't hope it, but it can happen. That is why I believe that this point should be supported - Mr Wabl, also from your side - and should be given particular importance on it. Summary: I believe that today is not the time for the Federal Minister to express his distrust, but we should work with all our strength on it until the next Monday when the Council of State Defense meets to take advantage of the opportunity... Mrs Colleague! [[Calls of the Abg. May. Kammerlander.]] I hear you so bad. Maybe you could come down and say this. Here you are always very clear. In any case, we will not agree to this request from the Greens and we hope that the Minister of State for Defence will be able to answer all the questions on Monday.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e13518	The next speaker is Mr Jung. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e13539	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We have heard today that the Greens have found a mistrust against the Minister of Defence that he has deceived this House. I have to say: He has fooled us not only in this area, but several times, and I would like to justify this briefly. First of all, to the Mech package, this double decision which the SPÖ is now making in parts, if it does not admit it, already regrets: It was in itself – one can argue about the urgency – necessary device. The Minister wanted primarily to use the favourable opportunity he believed and to buy LEOPARD and hunting tanks JAGUAR; the SPÖ wanted to support the Steyr works. In reality, it has come to a self-faller and a double deception. To the self-confidence, the Minister did not have the opportunity to waive the real costs as a result of the hasty procurement. For if Mr Maitz wants to agree here that, for example, the thermal imaging devices have nothing to do with the JAGUAR, then I can only say: He doesn't understand anything about this business. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Because you can't shoot without these thermal imaging devices at night, in fog and in other weather, even day by day this could only be limited. Mr Maitz has also "forgetted" that ammunition must be there, because otherwise the tanks will not use anything – except to show them only at the parade. He also forgot that this ammunition is relatively expensive – depending on type, between first and second variant, about 250 000 S to 500 000 S. You have forgotten this in the absence of planning, which the Court of Auditors has rightly criticized in its reports. This made the procurement action a self-faller. To the Minister's information. – As you said, Mr Maitz: The Minister is happy to answer all open questions by telephonic means. I had to ask four questions in this House until I got a rather satisfactory answer to the question whether there is ammunition for the tank LEOPARD or not. – So this is how it looks with this Minister's "enlightenment" to the national councillors. There's a lot missing! Next: Even for the SPÖ, who hoped that the Steyr plants could be supported. The decision that the purchase contract is not here to this day. The Steyr works are in trouble. Why? – Because we have such a restrictive export law that they cannot sell useful and good equipment in themselves. That is why representatives of Poland are also negotiating the production of the equipment in their country, because it is easier to sell from there. That would really be a double deception for the SPÖ. But this fogging, swindling and misleading is unfortunately the Minister! For example, I recall the procedure in the Court of Auditors' Subcommittee, the wild behaviour in connection with the "Heeresreform Neu", "Newly New" or "Newly new" – or what is still going to happen to us, Albania or a recent example: The Federal Minister sends to the military soldiers a beautiful issue in which you can see a soldier with a great equipment. [[the speaker presents a brochure entitled "Miliz Info"]] – No soldier in Austria has this protective equipment in its regular equipment for use! But this issue is sent to the soldiers. This issue is no longer sent to the Members of Parliament, so that they do not get on with it, as the Minister also deceives the soldiers. In fact, he invites the Members of this House, who are in the Committee on Defence, to exercise for a long time, because he is embarrassed to avoid getting in touch with the force and seeing and learning how disastrous the situation is. Mr Maitz. Tell your minister once! I can only write it to you behind the ears. – As far as this area is concerned. But how does it come about? Why does the minister always do that? On the one hand, it is huge planning errors which the Court of Auditors has already pointed out. Furthermore, the means are missing because one has made opportunity purchases that were actually wrong purchases. While the Minister recognises the problems – in other cases – but he has no enforcement capacity. The best example of this is the area of budget: He told us year after year that the funds were still sufficient, but there was an urgent need for something to be done. – Look The next budget is what has really happened! Or look at the Minister's "persistence" in the "option report" that we are in the house – or the fact that he always tells us that we should have a higher professionalization in the army. For this higher professionalization you need well-trained staff in greater numbers. But this is not the case, because the Minister is decommissioning. I think there are 886 places this year. Either he has replaced the Minister of Finance by selling him "dead souls", namely, empty plan posts, or he can beat us! And on this job reduction I quote his own central organ, the "soldiers", in which the "observer" – under this cover name writes a high-ranking man, the ÖVP very close to him or her member – writes for the plan site reduction: "That's why it's a blatant nonsense" – Mr Maitz, listen! – to withdraw 2 000 to 3 000 plots from the army. Whoever allows this to be done is a soluble and decommissioner of the army." - 2 000 to 3 000 planning sites! Mr Maitz, look at the paper! 800 planning sites are already being dismantled. An "eclatant nonsense" Your minister, that's what he says in his own paper on the cover page! I think that says enough about this minister and about the situation of the German army. We shall, in principle, agree to this request.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e13618	The next speaker is Mr Hans Helmut Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e13643	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The Greens have today tabled a deadline for the debate on the motion for a resolution on the failure of confidence towards the Minister for Defence. We shall give our consent to this request for deadline. We will, of course, do so because it is really necessary to discuss such a request within a reasonable period of time here in Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen! In the course of this debate, we will not be able to avoid a so-called NATO debate either. I think it is high time to deal with the country's security prospects. I believe that the suspension of this motion for a resolution is not optimal in order to hold such a policy debate. This also applies to the hanger in connection with tank procurement, because in principle the information given by the Minister of Defence to the Member is correct, but here – and this is the problem, Mr Khol, which we have with the information of the Minister for Defence, gives selective information. In principle, it is always only announced what is in demand. However, the additional information, which is also necessary, will not be given to the Members. Mr Wabl, if there is indeed a mistrust against the Minister of Defence in the course of this debate – I have not yet received a supporting document – then we will not give this mistrust against Minister Fassl evening here and today, because he is not correct in the matter. Mr Wabl! I will only pass on the information we received at the time in the Council of State Defense when the Mech package was decided there and the recommendation in this regard has been given. There the honourable Member was informed that 112 LEOPARD would be purchased in a total package of 2.8 billion Schilling, 72 JAGUAR with a purchase value of around 14 million Schilling, 114 ASCOD, 30 million Schilling the piece, in a total of 3.42 billion Schilling, 230 PANDUR with an average price of 11 million Schilling, resulting in the sum of 2.53 billion Schilling. So the total is 8.8 billion schilling. It has not been taken into account – and this is one of the problems we have with the Minister of Defence – the costs for the acquisition of the ammunition and for the acquisition of spare parts. These are now to be put on a scale of about 2 billion schillings, and that is why we come to the sum of 10.8 billion shillings, which was also mentioned in response to the parliamentary question. That is the information, and I therefore believe that it is necessary for the Minister of Defence to change this form of information policy towards Parliament if he does not want him to lose the confidence of the House. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen from the ÖVP and the SPÖ! In connection with the implementation of the Mech package, Minister Fassleven is losing confidence. I am surprised that this is so accepted and accepted by the Socialist Group. The Minister for Defence is a bit of a problem on this issue! In December 1996, we issued the recommendation on the purchase of the Mech package. It was then agreed to carry out the procurement within a period of one year. So far, only the acquisitions concerning foreign products have been made, but not the shooters, and not the PANDUR. On this question, the Minister of Defence is sparse. I really consider it unreasonable and, in fact, a provocation that there are no official talks to date on the offer to the Austrian company. Nor can I take note of the fact that there is no money at all. Ladies and gentlemen! In the context of the meeting of the Council of State Defense, it was explicitly stated that one is very well able and ready to finance this from the current budget. I come to the conclusion. – Ladies and gentlemen! If the Greens are indeed here today to present a motion of censure against Minister of Defense Fassleven on this issue, we will not agree to this request because it is not justified in substance. However, we call on the Minister for Defence and also on the colleagues from the Austrian People's Party, who are almost putting their Minister for Defence, to carry out a different information policy with Parliament in the future, as soon as possible. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e13702	The last speaker in this debate is Mrs Magistrate. Kammerlander. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e13723	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Maitz, you are surprised that Mr Wabl has thought. This statement would lead me to many malicious assumptions, but let me reduce it to one: After your speech, I have legitimate doubts as to whether you have thought. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Dr. Maitz.]] If you had been thinking, Mr Maitz, you would have noticed a difference: 6 billion and over 10 billion. That alone speaks volumes. If the Minister of State Defense has always spoken of 6 billion schilling in the Council of State defense, and suddenly it is over 10 billion – what do you do? That's really embarrassing. But the Greens have always put you as the "nores" who have spoken of 8 billion schillings. That's where we still appreciate it! Over 10 billion schilling is the whole thing! Now to want to insist that this is the total price, that this is now the total cost – before you have just talked about a few details – is a tired excuse. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There is - and you know that very well - an information obligation of the Minister. And if he is asked, then of course the total cost is meant. But if you had made the effort and thought, Mr Maitz, when you had the documents in the Council of State Defense, you would have seen the study in the ministry. There is a study that says that this is not at all as favourable as the Minister of Defence would like us to know. In fact, there are doubts that the desired old equipment is so cheap only at first glance and on the paper. In both cases, however, significant system costs are added – as is literally the case from the study. The study warns against the fact that the integration of technically different vehicles into the force could complicate logistics. And that is already the case! Complications already occur. And now it turns out, you need a lot more – and see, suddenly it's 10.9 billion schilling! The deadline application refers to the previous statements of the Minister concerning NATO. But, look, it adds one to another: Once he is already talking about NATO and membership in NATO, he is already adapting the military structure and the acquisitions. Everything's already going on that track. And the members of the Committee and the Defence Council are not even truly informed! Mr Tychtl! You do not have to decide today about distrust of the Minister: You only have to decide on the deadline today. You have a chance, because if you refer to Monday, please ask the Minister on Monday! Do you feel it on the tooth as your group has announced? [[Complementary of the Abg. Dr Gredler.]] Voices You have the opportunity to decide on a request for distrust in four weeks' time, if the answers are completely unsatisfying, in the Council of State Defense! Do not let a bear be bound to the nose any longer, as this is obviously happening every time Mr Fassleven tells you something! By the way, I am very surprised because Mr. Gaál has announced via newspaper that he will "feel on the tooth" to the Minister. Will he do that on Monday? Or when can he do that now? Her speech was very coalition faithful. Obviously, one wants to make a little bit more of it at the coalition before one decides on it. You have a chance now: Voices You're going to set a deadline! It's just a deadline. Voices You agree, because if the answers on Monday are satisfactory to you, you can still reject them in four weeks. But you have the opportunity to decide on it, instead of just moaning before yourself or making it public again and again in newspapers, to stand there or there in the election campaign as the neutrals, as those who want nothing to do with weapons: Only jobs we want to save! Pui, we don't want weapons, they're very "grassy"! – and in the meantime you can be bound up by the Minister. Look at this: The whole freely available budget of the Minister has been given a blow, and you didn't know what he was spending! It'll show up on Monday. Voices That is why you agree to the deadline. Trust yourself once! If it is so – my final sentence – as you always proclaim in the election campaign and in election brochures, then you agree! [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e13805	No one has made any mention of this. The debate is closed. I would ask you to take the seats, because we are going to vote. We shall vote on the request to the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on Amendment 549/A (E) concerning the refusal of confidence to the Federal Minister of State for Defence for a period of up to 14 years. ==References== I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of this proposal for a deadline, to give a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e13848	I will now resume the negotiations on points 2 and 3 of the agenda – these are reports from the Committee on Culture. I give the floor to Mrs Petrovic as next speaker. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e13872	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] I think the Federal Minister will now have become quite jealous if she has heard these figures: a type of tank where a copy costs 30 million schillings! – This is exactly the amount that comes from the literarys in the 1999 budget and which is transferred to film promotion, which, although urgently necessary, should not be done at the expense of literature. Mrs. Federal Minister! A tank – and film promotion would be different. In my eyes, it is not just about the details of the reports. We have often discussed this in committee: the missing broad line, the missing overall view, the missing political vision. What is the mission of museums, the protection of monuments, the other areas of cultural and art promotion? It really is about the importance of this in a country where, on every possible and impossible occasion, at openings and the like, all always speak of the "art and cultural nation of Austria". Of course, in figures it looks a little different: Overall – and with that I mean not only the field of art and culture, which is located in your place of business, but also the "chief thing", the area of chancellor and State Secretary Wittmann – it is not 10 billion schilling. And the lion's share is fixed for large facilities, for the theatre. There is very little for the free initiatives, for the new media, for the free radios, for the electronic media, very little. In absolute amounts: The state defense gets more than twice as much. Above all, the development from 1998 to 1999 is remarkable: in the field of art overall, a minus of more than 50 million schilling, in the field of national defence a plus of more than 80 million schilling. That's what it looks like! But one thing is clear: Considering the return on the way, it must be noted that there are probably many tourists coming to Austria who want to look at tanks rather than museums or go to the opera or concerts. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Primitive Polemik!]] And, of course, re-route profitability also applies to the area of hotel industry. Allersteig is apparently a flourishing tourist metropolis, not to compare with Vienna, which has little to offer. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: A primitive polemic!]] It is actually so easy: no 10 million schilling for the arts and culture business, starved initiatives, the money is going back and forth and forth, a zero sum game and a total of less. In the field of national defence, however, the billions are apparently not enough for you. Whether 6 or 10 billion schilling, who's bothering that? Seems to be there, and seems to be getting more expensive. That, Mrs Federal Minister, gives me to think, especially in the wake of these debates. Let us also think about jobs. In the area of social democracy, it seems to be going well at least if the orders remain in Austria – which is now only to a very modest extent. In the field of art and culture, the companies leave. Mrs Bundesminister, did you once get an overview of how many record companies, like many publishers, have also gone away as many individuals, because the whole tax law, because social security is not tailored to people who typically have very atypical employment conditions? There is going to be a meeting in the field of art and culture, which is really sad and embarrassing. All in all, the importance of this area is too low. Mrs. Federal Minister, just a small example, I always grab it out, and – thank God! – a few media are now interested: Take a look at the museum – and this is a Vienna Minor, an Austrian speciality – that falls into your resort area, but you don't seem to be very interested in it: the fool tower. It is a Josephine building, only interesting as a building, but even more interesting is the collection that is located in it, which is bleeding out, which can no longer be preserved. Five posts, four of them occupied – that's how it looks. Second point: What is the task of art and culture? I miss a debate in this regard. Also, from your side you always seem to look at the large flagships of the Austrian art and cultural industry. We need them, of course, but not only. If, for example, Mr. Seipel says about the Art History Museum that in the future the museums will be more able to measure their economic success, then, I believe, he will speak of the position of his house relatively easily. In a public debate, the director of a large institution, namely the British National Gallery, Neil McGregor, argues for free entry to maintain free entry. He does not want any revenue because he says that is the cultural heritage of a nation, and that has to be available to the nation at any time and free of charge. This is a different approach to thinking, where art and culture do not necessarily have to justify themselves commercially, but rather have a self-esteem. A little bit of this kind of thinking I would like for our country. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This does not mean that one cannot regulate things economically in detail there or there, but I consider the whole debate on disseminations and legal forms and gesmbhs or foundations to be a sham debate, as long as we cannot agree that art and culture need a greater importance, that in particular the new and young forms of articulation need space, freedom and money – that is the most important thing. In what legal form we do this is then rather a sham debate. It hurts me when, for example, the clubman of the ÖVP, who at least occasionally interferes in the debate, says that he wants a model with institutions where the music theatre and the speech theatre are brought together in such an institution. And he wishes – if he is correctly quoted in the media – self-management without direction, but with control of the ministry. I am of the opinion that: If there is to be a control, then it has to be a control of this House, and it also hurts me when a parliamentarian, a clubman, rather than an administrative control speaks the word, instead of referring to the sovereignty and also the control right of Parliament. For then I suspect very well that this debate on Gesmbh or the institution is a forward-looking one and that it actually serves to conceal the fact that it is in fact a matter of safeguarding party political influence. It is only in this way that I can explain the vote on the right to control, an only administrative control right. At least I reject that. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The second item on the agenda on cultural goods which have been unlawfully spent outside the country. . We held a very strong and controversial debate on Directive 93/7 EEC in the Committee, and with different arguments, all the opposition parties did not agree to the adoption of this Directive in Austrian law. In my opinion, the procedure chosen here is really bad and unsustainable in the form. First of all, it is politically unsustainable because I believe that we can and must not start a discussion, a political debate on the return of unlawfully spent cultural goods in 1993 and not in 1998. The last time we are allowed to discuss in Austria is 1938. Everything else is politically incorrect in this country and unacceptable. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] Mr Stoisits and I have tabled an application for information on stolen and worn-out objects of art in the Austrian museums. Although I do not believe that the question of this material and cultural reparation can still be settled on individual items today – in least cases it will be possible and would lead to new injustices – but we must finally ask ourselves the question of reparation in this context. Otherwise, this would be a political refusal that is unbearable for so many years thereafter. The procedure chosen here for the adoption of the EU Directive from 1993 is also inadmissible because it is carried out legally in a totally unsustainable form. I regret that the club members of the government parties, in particular Mr Klubobmann Dr. Khol, are not here now, because I had already expected a certain legal honesty to be shown. So far as I am concerned that we are talking in principle and, as has been said, much further back on the obligation to return or at least reparation obligations in respect of unlawfully spent cultural goods, so I condemn the way in which this has been done. It is not a question of simply incorporating an EU directive into national law without amending the relevant civil law situation in this sense. In Austria, we have a principle of so-called acquisition of good faith, which, under certain circumstances – acquisition by the authorised trader, by the authorised trader, acquisition in a auction, acquisition by the owner's trustee, according to the law – at least leads to a acquisition of ownership of the buyer, the acquirer, the acquirer. If a return obligation is established without the acquirer being deprived of the right of ownership – which would be consistent and what one can talk to me about at any time – then this leads to an austere solution that must be issued in the ownership of an Austrian or an Austrian, which remains in this property under civil law, and that in all future ownership and property will be divided. This cannot serve legal certainty! This also leads to the fact that in the future there will be a large number of legal follow-up questions: the questions of fees for storage, the questions of who has a right of prosecution, if this subject is again misused. This is a real legal palawatsch – I have no other word for it. I have discussed this with professors of civil law, and they have not believed that the Austrian Parliament is in favour of choosing such a procedure. I have deposited a repair proposal in the Committee on Culture, only the pressure was, we must now – fast, fast! – adopt this EU directive, apparently so large that it has simply been removed from the legal principles of Austrian civil law – which I consider to be critical. Just that's not how it is! This creates a parallel right of public law and civil law, which is contrary to one another, which can lead to probably very rare, yet possible, insoluble individual cases. In total, I must say, I am sorry if the debate is carried out only under the constraints of the matter, if we say that we must act now, because we have been told three times. I also believe - and I share the opinion of the Liberals - that the outcome of the procedure which is being conducted in the Federal Republic of Germany could have been admirable and serious, because it is also claimed that this directive has not been properly implemented by law and by law and for very good reasons. I would like to see the same haste and the same willingness to adopt EU law, even once, for example, when it comes to measures against money laundering or the like. Here you have been ready for a Hudrivudri strategy in an incomprehensible way for me, but They were not prepared to have a fair discussion about whether we should not generally deal with the question of the so-called acquisition of good faith. For I also believe that especially in the case of theft, of robbery, of withdrawn cultural goods – but not only cultural goods, but also of assets as a whole – good faith is the worse argument against the protective interests of the stolen, deprived and deceived. But in total – and I conclude – I do not place a continuous cultural policy, nor do I place a passionate party to the concerns of the cultural creators in Austria, who really cannot do so in many areas. It is so much the talk of the waste and of the jobs which migrate. I'll tell you: A truly renowned artist and cultural artist, who, with all his rights, with his immaterial rights, with his publishing relations, with his protection of immaterial rights, not only depends – that is to say, those who are perhaps not worth so much of this area of culture – on an ideal value, but really many jobs – even jobs of tomorrow. Austria will not be able to afford to celebrate only the laurels from the past in various celebrations, but if we do not now try to have opportunities and economic opportunities for a lively and young cultural establishment today, then our children and grandchildren will no longer have to celebrate new celebrations in 50 or 100 years. And I find that very sad and very sad.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e13967	Mr Leiner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e13989	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Health is not everything, but without health everything is nothing! – That’s how I could actually play out health policy against cultural policy, Mrs Petrovic. [[Abg. Böhacker: Where did you read that? Do you know where that is?]] I think that what you set out at the outset is not appropriate for a polemic, I believe. I would like to point out once again that it is actually disappointing for all those sitting inside, but also for those in the Cultural Committee who are doing so, that the chairman of the Cultural Committee is not present. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Where is she?]] [[Abg. Mother: You will also be allowed to go out!]] I think that this whole gregarious thing, Mrs Petrovic, which you are always voting on at the speaker's desk is unnecessary, because if we see all these activities that are now being set up, especially in the museum area, then we can be proud of Austrians. It would be appropriate not only to put ourselves down, but to take something out of us. I personally – and I think you can say that in general – am satisfied with this cultural report. Our task as a politician is – and this task is re-activated by this law – to create framework conditions that allow cultural creators to adapt to new circumstances so that they can fulfil their social mission. Of course – and you're right with that –: These tasks are to be dealt with, even now, as a savings package has come, as changed expectations from the visitors to the museum are available to suit the education mandate of modern times. I particularly welcome the proposal by Federal Minister Elisabeth Gehrer to transform the Federal Museums into independent federal institutions with their own legal capacity. We know that partial justice has proved itself well. The figures show: Due to the partial capacity, revenue increased by 81 percent. It is essential to continue this course. Mrs. Motter! I would like to point out once again - as Mrs Minister has already said - that the legislative tasks are quite simply defined. [[Abg. Mother: You don't have to explain this to me about partial justice!]] No, but here you have asked the question of what tasks should actually be done. For the visitor to arrange, collect, preserve and research the exhibition – this is actually the main task. [[Abg. Mother: We know all that!]] Yes, but you did here as if you didn't know; that's why I told you again. I think these tasks can be very well realized in particular by the institution model. The museums can thus work in a self-responsible way, and we wanted to do so. Not managing is needed in the future, but entrepreneurial thinking and active cultural management. The directors will deal with new developments, synergies should be better used, for example between the Museum of Art and the National Library and so on. That can't happen in a horuck action. The objectives can be clearly defined: greater self-management, freedom from state constraints, a multi-year work and budget programme, resulting in increased human and financial flexibility, and a departure from camera music. I have already said first that this proposal is a more reasonable one that we should go this way. [[Abg. Mother: What proposal?]] I congratulate the Minister for this initiative. - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e14096	Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 6 minutes of voluntary speaking time is indicated. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e14117	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Bartenstein is not exactly the right address for cultural matters. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: He's a universal genius!]] Well, he is also a member of the ÖVP, like the Minister of Education, who obviously preferred not to listen to all the arguments she has already heard in the Committee, especially when it comes to the return of illegal cultural goods to which I would like to speak. I am very rarely of the same opinion as Mrs Petrovic, but today I really have to give her the right to argue about this government proposal concerning the return of illegitimate cultural goods. Mrs Petrovic said that a law had been prepared here inconceivably, and it obviously had to be acted quickly, under pressure. I also believe that it was this pressure to which we owe this law. It is true that this federal government always wants to be the leading child with the EU. It should always be shown that we are introducing all the directives in Austria, that we do not allow ourselves any other opinion. To date, however, there have always been new legal provisions, which have been raised by Brussels, even if we did not agree. This law, however, is being acted counter-emptyly. This is particularly objectionable, and with it drive You really got the point on top, ladies and gentlemen! Obviously, something should be introduced in a horuck action – without responding to the Austrian legislation and to our proven instruments – which simply contradicts the fundamental existence of our civil right. And we reject that! Other countries that have also been required by an EU directive - for example Italy and the Federal Republic of Germany - have resisted because this directive is a deep intervention in the civil code. These countries have not accepted this. Of course, we in Austria have acted immediately – immediately not, but at least very quickly – and unfortunately God did not accept the coalition parties' proposal. In fact, we have suggested: Let's wait! Germany is sued by the EU because it has not incorporated this legal standard into national law. Let's just wait and see how this process goes! Italy is already facing this complaint. No, we are not waiting for it, but today's decision-making will also bring this EU directive into national law. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: We want to avert a complaint!]] Mr Morak said that Germany still wants to adopt this EU directive, but that is simply not true. And he meant, Italy's in front of the takeover. – But that is not at all true, but these countries make it happen. Mr Bartenstein! You say we want to reject the complaint. – Well, let's finally risk it! Let us say that we cannot let the EU overrun us with principles that contradict our centuries of tradition! I think we can risk that. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Young: Forerunnerous Obedience!]] If you already say that the EU has to be cautious towards it, I will make it clear to you that we have not notified a reservation on this EU directive. That would have been in our power, that would have been part of the homework that Jörg Haider spoke of over and over again. We should have looked at what is actually connected with EU accession. And this would have been the case with this EU directive, since it has been in the stock of EU law since 1993, and we are only 1st. ==References== With the adoption of this EU Directive, not only are fundamental principles of Austrian law thrown over the pile, but a number of other problems will arise, namely financial problems. In this respect, the government template does not give any information at all, which will cost all. Furthermore, various concerns raised in the review procedure are also not taken into account. For example, the Federal Chamber of Commerce has pointed out that rights can be exercised retroactively. ==References== ==References====External links== EU accession to the EU in January 1995. This will further increase legal uncertainty. Furthermore, it is also noted in the review procedure that this law gives the Federal Monument Office a position that is probably not grown. On the one hand, the Bundesdenkmalmamt must fulfil the task of providing assistance to foreign applicants, and on the other hand it should help to break through Austrian interests. – So, as this "spagat" can be carried out by the Federal Monumental Office, that is also unexplained. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties! The law that you are going to push through today does not conform to our national legal order, nor does it contribute to legal certainty, nor is it guaranteed that the implementation of this law will function smoothly. And that's why we reject it.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e14195	Mrs Konrad is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e14217	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I agree with the statements made by those Members who consider the present cultural report to be positive, because it gives a good overview of the state of the art and, at the same time, makes the difficulties facing the museum in Austria. This means that traditional tasks face new needs and requirements. From my point of view, this is about three priority tasks: Recent references of historical experience are to be made and experienced, cultural understanding and awareness is to be expanded, but at the same time the adaptation to the modern service and information society is to succeed. However, what is already clearly defined in the report as an objective, namely a reform of the federal museums through autonomy and decentralisation, in order to achieve, as it is said, a higher degree of efficiency and a higher market orientation, this is still in discussion, and in this discussion we have questions to ask and to find answers from our point of view. These questions are: Which innovation boost will bring higher market orientation? What does this mean by even higher efficiency? What are the so-called objective criteria for measuring the donations from the Federal budget? And much more. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address a requirement for contemporary museums, a requirement which is not at all reflected in this report – I am also aware of why, because it is not yet taken into account by the Austrian Federal Museums or hardly yet – and that is the question of the gender perspective. I consider it an important task to make the Austrian Federal Museums aware of the denial of female culture and history and, above all, to lift it. Internationally, a wide-ranging discussion has been held since the early 1980s, and some experts have also accepted this question in Austria. There are museum models and initiatives, especially in foreign countries, which are also implemented there. So there are already museum concepts in which gender as a central category is taken very consciously into account. So if the Austrian Federal Museums do not only want to and should not only be places of endurance and storage, but also places of critical discussion with and through art and culture, they must not shut down this gender perspective either. I very much hope that this development will be documented in the next cultural report. I would like to focus briefly on the second point that we are discussing today, namely the return of unlawfully spent cultural goods. From our point of view, I can say that the law on the return of unlawfully spent cultural goods allows for a correct and responsible solution. In the horizon of this responsibility, the concerns and objections and also allegations that have come today are also to be assessed, the law encroachs on the Austrian civil law system. The S & D Group also does not share the view that the EU's Civil Law Directive in principle calls into question Austrian civil law. I agree with the opinion that, if I remember correctly, Mr Morak has expressed in the Committee on Culture, that cultural protection, such as monument protection, always intervenes in property rights and that this intervention is also acceptable under certain conditions.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e14268	Mrs. Dr. Brinek has now been reported on the floor. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e14289	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to go ahead with a legendal education and make a few comments on the presentation of previous speakers as regards our discussion of the new legal model for the Federal Museums. Speaking about legal forms, Mrs Petrovic, is, I believe, not just a "fine debate". The debate moved and moved between two views: The representative of the Natural History Museum has meant that everything remains as it is. And the other counterpart was a privatization model based on profitability, which did not find any friends in its radicality. The middle route won the approval in the discussion and remained open the questions: How does the board of trustees work if it checks the proper booking and the administratively correct conduct? – The second question concerned the transitional period in the museum order. In principle, however, there was a great deal of support for the approach proposed by the majority in principle. Let me come to a few points from the cultural report. I find it very interesting and important what the Minister pointed out, namely the connection between museum, cultural work and school. I am looking forward to the large project "Remembering and Designing", which will take place in the second half of 1998 within the framework of our EU Presidency between cultural institutions and school. I think it is very good for the Austrians to do a memorial work. I often feel like I'm in a certain history. The question in the environment of very "nervous" media and hectic offers: Who are we? Where are we going? If we all need it, do us all good. We should also address these thoughts in the context of the question: What alternative does Austria have to define itself? – Exclusive land resources on I'm sure there's no time. The tourist exploitation of nature also has its limits. We will not be able to rely on industrial cheap production in the future. It will therefore be good for us to reflect on what treasures we really have and how we can benefit from them without being deprived of ourselves by excessive, eccentric marketing of this treasure. Experience culture, as mentioned in the report, could be the key word. The cultural institutions presented and presented themselves authentically in the report. Much is already being done – unfortunately, Mrs. Mother is no longer there – for young people, for visitors and for communication. I just call the special programs "Message of Music", "Sound Networks", "The Dream of Happiness"; Special editions, special catalogues, special tours, new technical cooperation media for better cooperation between the school and the museum, and I refer to the large sums given to the ÖKS, the Austrian cultural service, for the mediation and connection of culture and education. I see a great opportunity for Vienna – I have to say this as a Vienna woman with a lot of joy – as part of this good cooperation and the new path in the Wiener Museumsquartier. To remember: The Vienna Classics in the Leopold Museum, the Museum of Modern Art, the Kunsthalle and the Children's Museum as the "Starter Museum", according to a quarter character, can be found there – unlike other concepts.This is the ideal place for getting started in close proximity to the classical museums. There you can make interactive hands-on. There you can maintain interdisciplinary access. I think this Starter Museum is very important. The Wotruba Museum, artist studios, the architectural centre, the great tension between architecture, technology and art – all of this is found here in a different conception than it is in Bilbao. The museum in Bilbao, which has been honoured many times, aims at a one-time effect. The Bilbao Museum stands, is finished, finished. There is no change, no more dynamic process of change, as is the case with the quarter. It would be wrong to love Bilbao and the great architects like Frank Gehry and so on would be an answer for Vienna. I think caution is needed at the level of how we are doing so that we do not fall into a naïve copy work towards the theme parks. I'm saying that the Universal Studios in Orlando and Anaheim can just do better. Therefore, I warn to go to insensitive the path of development, the development of an independent culture and of copying, in order to achieve rapid effects. I think that the cultural report – that is final – is a good basic document for all those who want to reinvent the wheel, especially in the field of the world of experience, of accessibility. Let's save ourselves the reinvention of the wheel! Let's read the cultural report! Let us observe what the Minister has promised as regards Culture 2000 and Museum 2000! Let us go to work and make constructive proposals! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e14351	Next word: Mrs Jäger. Similarly, 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e14372	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take this opportunity on the occasion of this debate on the cultural report, as we are in these days and weeks of the 60. The anniversary of the "connect" of Austria commemorates Hitler-Germany – to address open points and questions related to this hapless past in this debate. I welcome the fact that Mrs Gehrer has given an order for scientific research and cataloguing of the art treasures that came into the museums in the "Third Reich". Of course, I regret that it is only now that there is a need for an occasion, namely the confiscation of the Schiele images in New York, and that this discussion is actually being conducted 50 years after the end of the war. According to an article in "Newsweek", this debate is currently being held in many other countries. France too has catalogued over 2,000 images, whose origins are unknown and undetermined, and they are available on the Internet. As I said, I believe that we must deal with our past much more honestly. In this context I also appeal to the Land Archives and the Landesmuseen that these archives are finally opened to clarify everything. According to a newspaper report, the University of Graz, which has launched a symposium on literature in National Socialism, is possible to obtain documents from Vienna, Berlin, Potsdam and Washington, but not from the Grazer Landesarchiv. And I don't think that's all right. I think culture is an opportunity – we are all invited – to promote a climate of tolerance, democracy and critical debate with our history. In this context, I would like to stress once again that I consider the Wehrmacht exhibition to be an important contribution to dealing with the past, that the discussion on this is extremely important so that we can deal with this past. I would like to quote Ingeborg Bachmann: "The truth is reasonable to man." – I think this truth is reasonable to the Austrians too. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ, the Liberal Forum and the Greens.]] I also believe that we must make it clear to our children what national socialist terror did to artists. I would like to quote American historian Steven Beller, who said: "Vienna can never replace what it lost in 1938." – That is why our dealings with the heirs of this predominantly Jewish culture should be maintained and promoted even more. Because one thing is certain: The cultural, spiritual heritage of Vienna since the turn of the century was mainly influenced by the Jews. I am very pleased in this context about the construction of the Arnold Schönberg Museum. Once again, someone was brought back to Austria very late. I think Austria, with its musical tradition, has brought back the most important representative of modern composition to Austria. I thank all those who have been involved in the arrival of this museum, especially the city of Vienna. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ, the Liberal Forum and the Greens.]] I would like to add another example that I find rather embarrassing. Significantly it is in Carinthia. It should have been given an assignment to Cornelius Kolig to paint the frescoes in the Carinthian Landtag. He is a grandson of Anton Kolig, whose frescoes in the Carinthian Landtag were called "detart" by the Nazis in 1938, overpainted and when people's feelings were unreasonably represented. There it could have been, by awarding the order to the grandson Koligs, in fact given an act of reparation, an act against oblivion and critical treatment of the past. Back to the cultural report: I would like us to address these very issues in the scientific work in all areas of the museums, to deal with this past and to do everything we can in the future and to make it happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e14438	Mr Zweytick is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e14460	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Estimated Minister! I remain in the present and do not go back to the past, although we can discuss the Wehrmacht and Wehrmachtsaussung safely and should – above all, in what form it is currently presented. It is about raising awareness of society and especially of youth, and it is certainly very difficult to create an objective awareness here, especially since there are still many people in this country who – quite legitimately – represent their opinion in this regard and are very reserved for this exhibition. In addition, many people are accused and judged by these people, and I do not know whether it is correct for people today to judge people from the past. There is my legal understanding, if I may come back to Mrs Petrovic's comments, quite another point. But we should not discuss legal understanding. Rather, it is about the 1996 Cultural Report. In my opinion, culture does not have a self-evident purpose, but rather serves the social debate, awareness, education. I accept the report before us that it has succeeded in providing museums of conventional character with new museum concepts aimed at immediate experience and experience. This should also be due to the increasing number of visitors, which is of course very welcome: In 1996, the Austrian Gallery recorded half a million more visitors than in the previous year. This is a tremendous increase, and it shows that successful exhibitions, such as the Claude Monet exhibition, appeal to the audience. I believe that building a public-friendly infrastructure and increasing the attractiveness of education is essential in order to improve citizens' access to culture. Only in this way can a museum fulfill its educational assignment. With regard to the completion of the education contract, I think it is very important not to close up the possibilities of modern communication technologies. Here, too, current marketing strategies are essential. The aim must be to develop these opportunities through a presence of museums on the Internet and to create educationally valuable educational and educational variants in order to address the wide-ranging changes in education and to comply with the education mandate in the future. Priorities for the future must therefore be a further expansion of didactics and service, as well as increased use, as well as application of electronic media. I think it makes sense – one cannot stress it often enough – to give the museum directors and managers in the cultural field more scope and freedom of action so that they can also obtain the necessary financial resources. Culture is also part of creativity, and creativity also needs a large part of a certain freedom. Especially responsible people should be able to move freely in their creative activity when it comes to achieving efficiency so that people can continue to be more motivated towards culture, for example for visits to museums. I think it unrealistic to charge the normal government budget over a fee in the future. This is a fact that needs to be considered, which is why we should move seriously and as quickly as possible forward the transformation of the federal museums into full justice. In my opinion, the figures speak a clear language. Within the framework of the partial right, the Kunsthistorisches Museum and the Austrian Gallery succeeded in producing essential financial resources themselves. The Kunsthistorische Museum increased its revenue from 1995 to 1996 by 25 percent to almost 64 million Schilling. The Austrian Gallery brought it to the 365 percent quantum leap mentioned above. In my opinion, this is almost sensational, not only for Austria but also within Europe. It is due to these houses for the first time that total revenue could be increased by 81 percent. Since the art and the museums cannot exist at all without a financial basis, I consider the discussion and discussion on the topic of the "financing of museums" to be extremely important and would like to press for the rapid realization of the so-called right-wing capacity. I would also like to thank Mrs Gehrer and her team for the work. Their proposals are excellent, as is confirmed by the Cultural Report. I congratulate the people around Mrs Gehrer on her keen and very responsible look and wish everything good for the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e14511	Mr Stippel is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e14532	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In the debate on the cultural report, we have now talked for hours about the various institutions of the Austrian cultural landscape, especially and focus on the Federal Museums. There are a number of other institutions which also represent part of the national identity that have not at all or hardly found mention, for example the National Library or the Federal Monumental Office. I should therefore like to say a few words about that institution which is hardly anchored in the consciousness of the population, but which is a very important part of the preservation of the historical cultural heritage, namely the Federal Monument. Furthermore, if you look at the matter from the economic side, you must not forget that the activity of the Federal Monumental Office is ultimately very positive in terms of the return on the way. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Monument protection is a federal matter in Austria, both in legislation and in enforcement. I just remember the following: Years ago, a "landing debate" took place, i.e., there were and obviously still there are circles in our country that want to land the monument protection. I cannot imagine that there are other conditions for the protection of monuments in Burgenland than in Lower Austria or Vorarlberg, for example. As a country with such a rich historical heritage, we simply cannot afford to split ourselves in terms of monument protection. So I would like to give a clear rejection to all those who are still making such a change today. The main task of the monument protection is to promote the restoration, maintenance and restoration of monuments. In 1996, 210 million schillings were available for this; perhaps that is still not enough or safe if you want to do so. But this is, in quantitative terms, an enormous increase over the previous year, namely by over 100 million schilling. There are more than 5,000 moving and immovable monument objects in this country that need to be renovated, revitalized, restored and preserved in the context of monument protection. This is a huge task that awaits us. In addition, the range of tasks of the Federal Monument Office has begun from administrative activities – primarily scientific activities – to advisory activities for monument owners up to the allocation of subsidies, very broad and very important. The monuments to be protected in so-called public interest range from castles and castles to monasteries and churches with their facilities and facilities, from urban and rural ensembles to residential buildings and industrial facilities. I would particularly like to stress the latter, because much remains to be done in the field of industrial archaeology, in the field of industrial history in Austria. If you look where, for example, national exhibitions take place in Lower Austria, you can see that these are usually castles, castles, churches, monasteries. Only in one case did an exhibition take place in premises attributed to industrial archaeology. And that's just not enough for me. I would therefore like to point out that I am engaged in my work in the Industrieviertel-Museum Wr. Neustadt has already been able to achieve some successes, which has led to the preservation of industrial monuments in the area of Wr. New Town. We are just in the process of moving forward the Condenburg project in Lichtenwörth – it is about the oldest closed workers' settlement in Central Europe – and we are also in the process of creating an "Industrial and Commercial Road Lower Austria South". This requires not only material goods, but also idealism so that these projects can be realized. We're on the best way. However, to a greater extent we need the support of the public sector. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to express my thanks to the man who has led through many years through the Bundesdenkmalmamt, namely President Dr. Sailer. We have great expectations in the new President. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e14586	The next speaker is Mrs Ablinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e14607	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! At later hour, as usual... [[Objection.]] Go, go, go, go, go, go! You're going to bed later? – What I want to say with this is that it is very often and most often so that cultural debates are held in this House after lunchtime, which does not mean that it is unusual to stay in the House for a longer time. But the fact that cultural debates take place very late in the evening is a pity – even as far as public interest is concerned. Unfortunately, that is always the case. The first point on which I would like to say something briefly concerns the implementation of the EU Directive and the criticism of it. It is important that the implementation of this EU Directive for the first time now allows for the possibility of creating unlawfully spent cultural goods in the respective country at all. This is the essential difference, because in all cases before 1992 there was no possibility of bringing these cultural goods back into the country. That's one. The second point concerns the acquisition of credulity and the criticism of Mrs Petrovic. Of course, there are still difficulties in dealing with issues relating to cultural goods in the context of compensation. The fact is, however, that the Committee's determination is that there is now an obligation to issue, but there is also a claim for compensation, which is very important if a acquisition of a credulity is proved. That is, if one can prove that one has not purchased an art object according to the knowledge of a cultural expert or a cultural expert, but has acquired it on the basis of the knowledge of an average buyer, then one is subject to the obligation to issue it – but that is now the case with national cultural goods, otherwise it would make no sense if the respective country had no way to recover it – but there is a compensation. The third possibility, also presented by Mrs Schmidt at the Committee meeting, was to wait for the outcome of the action pending in Germany. To this end, I must say: We could not have waited for the outcome of the action in so far as we would have been quite sure that we would have been in danger of being sued. That is to say, we have finally implemented the EU directive, which is a little late. This is a good thing, considering that we have been in delay for so long. The next topic that has already been edited today, namely the art of prey: I would just like to refer to the hysteria that was created not too long ago when it came to the seizure of the Schiele images at the Museum of Modern Art in New York. One thing is important: In this context, we must already bear in mind the crimes that could at all lead to these cultural goods being turned into foreign hands. It must also be borne in mind that the Austrian attitude was, for a very long time, not a very boastful one. At the time, there was also a statement by an Austrian politician, who said: "I'm in favour of pulling the thing into the length." – This tendency of delay has been related to efforts to return home to the displaced; it has also referred to the delay in the return of cultural goods and the reparation of the victims. I can recall that the restitution of homosexuals of the Nazi regime lasted until the 1990s. Only in the last decade has movement come into this matter. I also think that Mrs Gehrer has responded correctly by saying that we now have to catalog and deal with this matter. Austria is well advised to be exemplary in this matter, although – and this has already been demonstrated by the Wehrmacht exhibition, my colleague Jäger, – it is obviously still difficult to talk about this time even in the nineties, without the waves of excitement going up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e14664	Mrs Magnette is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Worm reported. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e14686	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! It is very amusing how easily a small size amount – exactly 28 sizes – can cause some confusion. In the 1996 Cultural Report, which has been very clear and really successful from the design point of view, a budget approach of 6.69 million schilling up to 28 sizes is precisely mentioned under the title "Promotions". From this sum, due to the many points and commas – in order to guarantee probably better legibility to loosen up – it can easily become 6.69 billion, because, of course, it could be believed with fleeting respect that this sum is the total amount of funding for the Austrian cultural heritage. And so it actually happened that the "parliamentary correspondence" published this sum of supposedly 6.69 billion schilling as total expenses of the Federal Ministry of Culture, which was spent in 1996. In the Committee on Culture, Culture and Technology, this number has been taken over by Parliament's correspondence, from which it has finally been included in the Committee's report. This figure in the fourth paragraph of the report from the Committee on Culture is therefore 5 billion too high, provided that the cultural report is read correctly. The expenditure thus amounted to 1.61 billion schilling. The fact that this report contains exact, comprehensible figures is very encouraging – but they should end, I mean, with the schilling amount. The gross accuracy is really too much of the good and rather serves the confusion. High house! Now to another point: In my opinion, funding for local museums and museums is also very important from the point of view of Tyrol, because the funds of around 150 million and 200 million schilling in funding – as mentioned by Mr Stippel – also directly benefit the federal states for the preservation of monuments. Monument protection and monument maintenance cost a lot, as the report says. If the Federal Government and the Länder already spend so much on this part of the Austrian identity, I personally am incomprehensible that these achievements are so neglected in public relations. For art-interested tourists, but also Austrian citizens, it would certainly be very interesting to know what buildings are being put under monument protection in a city, in a region. It would therefore be important that, for example, the Tourism Association offers brochures and brochures that provide information on what is listed in a city, in a region and why. So marketing is still a little bit in children's shoes, so my suggestion is to improve this. The Federal Museums, the National Library and the Administration are located in Vienna, so the lion's share of the funding goes of course to Vienna by far more than 1 billion Schilling. That this is very important and good for the reputation of Austria as a country of culture, I certainly do not need to mention it. However, I think it is worth mentioning that the number of visitors to the classical museums with 2.81 million visitors is twice as high as that of the Bundestheater, although the costs of 858 million schilling are only half as high – so it was also in the weekly magazine "profile" to read last week. That is why it is worth mentioning, because I do not want one to be played against the other, because I do not think museums and theatres are comparable and a comparison would therefore be inadmissible. One thing that I am still at my heart is that the trend of modernisation and another kind of presentation of museums, the cultural goods that began in the 1980s is being continued and strengthened - also to the danger that the budget of the Federal Museums will be a little burdened. Not too long ago, the Federal Museums – allow me to say that – have a little stubble and also shown a little old-fashioned. Fortunately, this has changed. Many school classes still drive to the Federal Capital, get to know Vienna and often visit museums here. This is also important and contributes to increasing the number of visitors. When teachers tell me about the visit to the museums, they always mention that the museums present themselves very differently. For example, the Volkskundemuseum has a very excellent museum educational support; other museums have – I am told – still need to catch up. But especially the sensitive approach to our cultural heritage seems to me to be one of the central tasks of the museums in addition to scientific support, with a hundred percent worth investing in a little more money. In this context, I am pleased with the comments made by Mrs Gehrer, who said that the report will have its own chapter, its own contribution to how the museums will present themselves with new concepts in the future and with what innovations they will present. This is an important aspect that will be even more complete in this report, and I think we can agree with this report with great pleasure.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e14749	There is now no mention of this. That concludes the debate. A final word by the rapporteur does not take place. We are entering the voting procedure, and I ask the honourable Members to take their place. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall vote on the request from the Committee on Culture to take note of this report III-110 of the supplements. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to the report. . The report is thus largely taken note of. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1104 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to agree to this bill to give a corresponding sign. – This is done by the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who would like to agree to the draft law at third reading to give an appropriate sign. – This is done by the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. 4. Point First reading of amendment No 679/A by Mr Mag. Helmut Peterand Comrades on Economic Flexibility Act 1998
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e14826	We're on the 4th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate immediately. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Peter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e14854	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Liberal Forum has been dealing with issues of site policy for a long time. The result of this activity is the 1998 Economic Flexibility Act, which we hereby allow ourselves to submit to the House. So that our debate does not go straight away in detail, let me put forward twelve preambles, twelve points of a pre-text, which I believe it is important to understand them, to agree on them, or not to agree on them, at least to debate them before discussing details of location policy or economic flexibility. Let me start with this: First pretext: There is no doubt that economics is not a self-esteem. Instead, economies serve to enable people to realize themselves culturally and to compete with their livelihood. This is linked to the second point, namely that the primacy of economic policy must be maintained at all costs. Because if the economy develops for its own purpose, it wins a self-dynamic that is burying the people under itself. That is why it is up to us politicians to create the necessary framework conditions for the economy. Third comment: Politics must, apart from ideological barriers, represent social change. – That’s one of the big problems in Austria. We draw a lot of experience from the past and know exactly how it was and how we have fought to find social protection mechanisms and economic frameworks. And it is so difficult for us today to say goodbye to the one who was important for the time being, because it no longer corresponds to economic and social change. Fourth comment: Mobility and internationality are progressing and defining the scope for action of national policies. Ladies and gentlemen! Who today closes our eyes to the fact that we are particularly concerned with employment in terms of structural change – we were allowed to discuss this in the debate on the urgent question – which overestimates the scope for action of national policy. Currently, more and more elements of transnational and international policies are defining national policies. Fifth point – for me one of the most important: The social network is the largest contribution to the political culture in our country. In Europe and in Austria in particular, it has succeeded in largely eliminating social conflicts through a social network. However, we are endangering this social network if we extend it and go beyond the limits of its financial viability. The increase in potential contributions to the financing of the social network – whether it be contributions from workers, employers or the state – is obviously limited. The indebtedness of our country is a clear example of this. Sixth point: Only those who are safe can be free. That's the condition. So if we want to demand more self-determination and freedom from people and demand more self-responsibilities from them, we are determined to ensure and guarantee social security in advance. Seventh point: Self-determination and worker protection can best be ensured by means of internal co-determination. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the world of work will be fragmented much more than it is today, and that it will change clearly in relation to the ideas that we have gained from the 1980s. That is why we have to put in place workers' protection in the in-house co-determination, which also means, as I have been able to repeat here several times, that trade unions and workers' representatives have a very new, important task, namely the task of consulting the works councils. The conflicts, which often break down very painfully in the trade unions today, show that it is also important to break up into new shores in this area. After point: Only customers create jobs. – This sentence is so simple! Why don't we understand him? We have debated three hours on employment on the occasion of the urgent question. And I've paid close attention. It's never once again the word "customer" liked. No one has talked about the customers who ultimately create jobs. Only those who satisfy those who generate demand and potential market needs will ultimately create work. That means: One must focus on the needs of markets, customers and also on potential new markets, which I see, for example, in the Eastern enlargement of the European Union. Ninth comment: The strength of small young companies is their flexibility, and those who limit them are weakening them. – I think we should write this sentence to the Chamber of Commerce in the main book. For it is really the wrong way to restrict women and men who are willing to become entrepreneurship, by means of protection provisions, and to believe that they can thus be protected from the competitive pressure of the greats. That's exactly the wrong way! It is necessary to remove barriers to small and medium-sized enterprises and, above all, young entrepreneurs, so that they can use their only strength towards the great ones, namely their speed and flexibility. Tenth point: The level of labour costs, particularly in the service sector, reduces legal employment opportunities. Today, a third – 230 000 women and men – are legal self-employed, but two thirds are illegal self-employed in the coup and black economy. I doubt, however, that the right answer is that there will now be a new authority to hunt the pussers at the same time as to be able to employ customs. This may make sense where really professional blackwork is done. But wouldn't it be much more constructive to think why we put these people in the push? This is not just illegal black workers. There is a distinct number of people – I do not want to say a percentage – that we can bring back to the legal economy if we give them the opportunity to do so. Let's discuss this! But this will only work with a meaningful deregulation with an eye measure. Eleventh point: The reduction in additional wage costs and the increase in productivity through flexibilisation enable gross wages to rise. This is a central sentence: Our employees today cost too much and earn too little. Gross wages are too low and labour costs are too high. I do not want a labour cost debate on additional labour costs and more than 13 and 14. We have already conducted such debates x-fold here. But think Once more, ladies and gentlemen, what an employee costs in the hour, what he deserves grossly, and what ultimately remains net to him. The higher the additional wage costs, the lower the ability to increase gross wages. That means: If we outsource non-tariff components, we have new opportunities to increase gross wages. And that should actually be the policy: We must get higher gross wages without further increasing labour costs. Twelfth and last sentence: Real customer wishes and potential customer needs are the target size of each employment offensive. I'm expecting with great excitement the one for the first time. ==References====External links== For this offensive, they set the highest goal of creating 100,000 new jobs by 2002. – I hope that this is more than the economic dynamic would give of itself. To the Economic Flexibility Act in detail: Article I and Article II deal with the question of how it can be made possible to increase the scope of internal cooperation – where the time sovereignty of employees can most be taken into account – to bring more responsibility into the works councils, under the very clear pre-text that the trade union will be given the new task of accompanying the works councils during these negotiations. Article III relates to the Labour Peace Act. Hiebei is about revitalizing an old Austrian tradition. There was until the 1960s in the silver and the golden Sunday before Christmas. On these two Sundays before Christmas, the shops – including with employees – were allowed to be open. I believe that a major distortion of Christmas shopping pressure could be achieved if employees were also able to be employed on the four Sundays before Christmas – initially on a trial basis. [[Abg. Ollinger: Why is this supposed to be a "destruction"? What's a detachment about that?]] I do not know, Mr Oellinger, whether you are one of the people who buy Christmas gifts. Have you ever looked at the hustle and bustle of the Christmas business? – I think that would be an essential step towards customer orientation. Because then people have time to buy gifts, and on four Sundays, the tradesman's work is reasonable. – By the way, we have also stated that workers may have the right not to do this work. But I don't want to lose myself in detail now. Article IV concerns the holiday rest law. This is about the very classic sentence: How can we get higher gross wages without increasing labour costs? – Austria is at the absolute top of the economic and monetary area with its thirteen holidays. If you give up on two holidays, which represents twice 0.43 per cent and about 1 per cent of the annual labour costs, you could increase gross wages by 1 per cent in return. I would like to stress once again that it is essential to increase the margin for gross wages. However, this is only possible if you do not raise the labour costs further. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Feurstein.]] Mr. Feurstein! Of course, you can increase labour costs further. You can continue what you have done for five years now, namely to increase labour costs. This will, however, lead to less employment in small and medium-sized enterprises in the service sector, especially where employment could arise. Our problem, however, is that we cannot exploit the potential of small and medium-sized enterprises, particularly service companies. If you increase labour costs in a service company by 1 percent, a total cost increase of 0.3 to 0.7 percent in the field of industrial services – more in the field of personal services. The specific question is therefore: Can you increase gross wages without increasing labour costs and risking competitive positions? – It is, of course, up to the social partners to negotiate that this increase is part of gross wages and that wage and income tax reform does not lead to a distortion in income tax progression. Article V concerns the holiday law. – On this point, it is annoyed that the ÖVP speaks with two votes: You repeatedly explain to your party members and to the members of the Chamber of Commerce that the aliquotation of the holiday claim is your wish. However, here you reject requests from the Liberal Forum or leave a further request in the Social Committee. - That's double-bedded! Mr Feurstein, you are in the Social Committee. If you, as an ÖVP member, want to implement what you always promise the Vorarlberger members, then bring this holiday proposal here to Parliament! For it is in the sense of a real employment policy that an employee working for six months has 15 days' vacation, but if he works a single day more, that one day costs three weeks' wages – that is, another 15 days' holiday plus 13 and 14. ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... For one day more work, you get three weekly salaries! – Faith Do you really think that an entrepreneur who operates responsible cost management will extend a fixed-term service relationship by one day if the three-week salary costs him in addition? Ladies and gentlemen! What does it mean if we don't aliquote the holiday? – This means that the outgoing employee takes a disproportionately large share of labour costs, so that the scope for any increase in gross wages in the company is missing. Once you have to accept that the level of labour costs in Austria has exceeded the sound of employment opportunities. Let us therefore find ways and means to achieve higher gross wages, which means that we need to reduce senseless privileges. I consider this holiday law to be a "unemployed employment law" because it creates unemployed people. An entrepreneur would be crazy to employ someone six months and a day if that cost three weeks' salary in addition! This application only includes the aliquotation of the underage holiday entitlement. But I think that we should go a step further and even aliquotate the holiday rights. Of course, it should remain with the previous holiday claim, and I should like to say with all clarity that I do not, like Maderthaner, question the five weeks of vacation. I think that this proposal by Maderthaner cannot be used and therefore not disputable! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Nürnberger: Now you only applaud, although he has been talking for a quarter of an hour!]] Mr Nürnberger, you have not noticed that I have never aired. I can talk about breathing in and breathing out! Article VI concerns the repeal of the opening law. I believe that there is no need to arrange opening hours at all. In my opinion, it is a prerequisite for the maintenance, in particular, of local supply on the flat land, for these entrepreneurs to be able to lock up their shops if their customers have their shopping needs in Grammatneusidl or in a valley in Carinthia or Vorarlberg or in Styria. I believe that it is an opportunity to receive local services if these local supply stores are largely free of charge, both in terms of the selection of their assortment and in terms of the way in which they lock up and lock up their businesses. Of course, we will have to get there in the future with regard to the local supply, that there are neighborhood shops where the postal office, possibly also the commercial business, the traffic, the monopoly office or the inn will meet in a form of the plant permit. Otherwise, we will have the problem that there are no longer any five. It's better, there's one or two. Article VII, Sunday and holiday operating time law: This does not concern the employees, but the entrepreneurs themselves. I don't see why a shooter should not be allowed to repair shoes on Sunday. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank you for allowing me to present my proposals on the Economic Flexibility Act, and to ask for your contributions.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e14920	The next speaker is Mr Nürnberger. The remaining time of your club is a total of 17 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e14939	I will certainly not need to speak all the time. – Mr President, I would like to thank you for your support. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Peter and Mr Kier wished for a so-called economic flexibility law. In the first place, the content of the application is hardly surprising. He is an entrepreneur and as such an uninstructable advocate of ancient neoliberal ideology. But with you, honourable Member Kier, this is much more dubious given that you call yourself social spokespersons of your party. What is behind the sounding name of the LIF application? . I have listened very carefully to Mr Peter's comments. The first 15 minutes he spoke not at all about the request, but only about new shores and the like. What do these new shores look like in telegram style? What is behind this Economic Flexibility Act? – The abolition of holidays, the abolition of the Sunday and holiday rest law, the abolition of the opening law and the aliquotation of the holiday claim, which you kindly explained yourself. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Peter.]] You have denied us that it is also to be made possible by changing the working time law for entrepreneurs to simply transfer accumulated time balances over the next billing period. This corresponds to an extension of working time and appears to be an important element of the scheme, because it destroys parts of the work done. In addition, you have not clearly said that the draft law states that you want to eliminate the collective agreement and hence the union, the strong representation of workers. However, Mr Peter, Mr President, you are also facing an organisation - I believe it is called Hotelier's Association - which has provided workers with a fair wage increase for months on end. In hotels and restaurants, there has been no collective agreement for months and no increase in wages. A few minutes ago, however, you explained that wage costs were the sound wall – the sound wall! – have crossed. I ask you: In your industry we do not even have a minimum wage of 12 000 S. Are 12 000 S monthly wages a sound wall, Mr Peter? You have to explain this to the people who have to live with this income! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Peter: You're at the wrong address with me, you don't even know yourself!]] Mr Peter! You are President of the Austrian Hoteliers' Association and could take this role in order to ensure that your member companies agree with the union on a wage increase. Push Don't put this your function aside now! They also refrain from quantifying the consequences of this law for the people concerned in your proposal concerning an economic flexibility law. They simply deny and ignore what would bring about the realization of your wishes for those affected, namely income losses, a deterioration in working conditions and a loss of quality of life. In addition, you will also show economic shortsightedness if you do not understand the consequences of this law, namely, the falling productivity for the overall economy and the economy as a whole, a weakening of purchasing power and a decrease in domestic demand so important for the economy. So the effects would in any case be negative. Mr Peter! I'll tell you one thing: The reduction of income and the deterioration of working conditions do not bring and secure any jobs! This is not only what we as a trade unionist say, but also economic professionals say. I assure you that the Socialist Group and the trade unions will defend such attacks on workers, on social quality, on the economy and on the general interest. You will not find a majority in this House for this law. I know that on the next very best occasion, you will say that the trade unions are the blockers who do not know new times, are not open-minded and similar. I can give you a number of examples from the recent past that show that the social partners have enabled reasonable flexibility in many areas at the level of collective agreements. I'll give you a few examples. However, they claim – and this is also stated in the explanations – that, in practice, there have been difficulties in implementing the Law on Working Time in particular with regard to the conclusion of collective contracts. – That does not correspond to the truth, Mr Peter. Have you ever taken hold of a current collective agreement and looked at what's inside? The social partners have decided on a number of flexibilisation measures, on working time, on Is-Lohn-Flexibilisation and more. I can tell you: You do not do a good job of flexibilization as a whole with this proposal! They bring flexibilization into a bad, a negative light. We acknowledge the need to become more flexible, and we are constantly trying to do so in wage, in salary and in working time policy – no question, there are examples of this. But it is a reasonable flexibilization from which both sides benefit. That is how we will proceed in the future, and therefore you will not agree to this Economic Flexibility Act. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schaffenrath.]] One advantage is that of today's debate. I would have liked to say this to the party president Schmidt himself. The request states that he was brought in by Members Peter, Kier, partners, but I assume that nothing is happening in the Liberal Forum without the knowledge of the party presidents. I saw her a little while ago, but you're sure to tell her: This request has the advantage of the workers in this country knowing the policy for which their party chairpersons are recruiting the highest office in the State. I assure you: I will make every effort to inform Austrian workers about this policy that you are pursuing.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e15002	The next speaker is Mr Ing. We're talking about a nut tree. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e15024	Mr President. High house! The present proposal is to be welcomed from its very basic point of view – I say "basic trend", Mr Nürnberger, but will come back to your statements. [[Abg. Nuremberger: Yes, what else? You're a businessman, too!]] Several details, such as a transfer of collective agreements to the level of enterprises – you have addressed them – naturally also meet long-term demands of the liberals. Some other details, on the other hand, I am skeptical about the abolition of two ecclesial holidays. This request will certainly not fulfil the applicant's wish to create an economic flexibility law. Mr Peter! On the issue of Easter enlargement, I am of a more conservative view as a result of the experience gained from many years of export activity in this region. The operation of this process depends on the stability and, above all, on the harmonisation of economies. But this cannot be realized in such a short period of time, for which East German space is the best example. This is where the efforts have been for ten years now, and the resources that need to go there are still very high. Nor can economic flexibility be achieved by your request, Mr Peter, that the operating agreement can only allow arrangements if the collective agreement empowers the operating agreement to do so, as you write in your application. Flexibilisation is only possible – on which we should actually agree – if a collective contract of the operating agreement is so open that the necessary decisions – whether for reasons of distortion of competition, because of the order situation, because of problems in delivery or for whatever reason – can be taken quickly in the operation itself and made by agreement between the parties. This is particularly important for small and medium-sized enterprises, which is because large businesses – we have experienced this continuously over the last decade – are always getting their desired operating arrangements with the threat of the reduction of labour force. On the other hand, small and medium-sized enterprises are tossed to the legal no, as we have just heard from you, Mr Nuremberger. The rigid No of the union, however, satisfied me, especially the workers no longer. [[Abg. Nürnberger: Not the collective agreements either?]] No, because workers want to work today, they want employment. [[Abg. Nürnberger: Right!]] That's the most important thing. [[Abg. Nuremberg: But in a reasonable development!]] Reasonable, yes, but we need to flexify so much that we can also react very quickly in companies. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Nürnberger: You can do that!]] – That was an example. The example two refers to the proposal for the abolition of ecclesial holidays. This question, Mr Peter, is not essential to me. The most important thing is what measures can be taken to increase the proportion of hours actually worked in proportion to the hours paid. Previous chamber surveys have shown quite different percentages of this difference, in each section the values ranged from 78 to 84 percent. In other words, the companies pay a higher number of hours not worked in international comparison. Austria is at the bottom of the scale with the annual target working time of 1,728 hours: In Japan there are 1,967 hours, in the USA – Mr. Nürnberger! – 1,912, in Switzerland – as a Vorarlberger, I am so to speak sickly affected by it – 1,853, i.e. about 120 hours more than in Austria. Of the average 1 728 paid Austrian working hours, up to 1,500 are actually carried out. – This is the big problem we have in our businesses today. Example three is the proposed holiday scheme. It is not crucial, Mr Peter, when a holiday can be made according to the law, but how the most efficient business agreement is obtained for the mutual benefit of the worker and the holding is the decisive thing in this matter. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Therefore, the present application covers only a small part of a possible new economic flexibility law. As we have already heard, he will be rejected. It lacks an essential element as the application does not refer to the law on the protection of workers. Everyone in this House knows that in many areas – I do not say: everywhere, but in many areas – neither legible nor enforceable, let alone controlable. Today, in Austria – a Vorarlberg labour inspector has said this once – we have 34 kilograms of employee protection laws, whereas in Switzerland there are 6 kilograms. But the costs of accidents and rehabilitation after work problems are lower in Switzerland than in Austria. So it does not depend on the number of pages of the laws, but it depends on the inner attitude to the laws and the content of the laws. Again and again I hear that this is also the opinion of many labour inspectors. In this area there is a very large, competitive saving potential, and this could be used without – I emphasize this, Mr Nürnberger! — to the workers of physical, mental or financial harm, but on the contrary even in a way that the worker can benefit from it. We refer, in particular, to the resolution tabled by the liberals at the time and rejected by this House, according to which provisions, which, compared to the benefits for workers, are disproportionately burdened, are suspended to a change. It is not, as has already been said by this pult today, that we would demand an abolition. I should also like to give an example of the high and, above all, indiscriminate criminal frameworks. For whether only a suspension obligation is violated in a holding or whether a circular saw is not sufficiently protected there: The same criminal framework applies in our laws, namely a fine of 2 000 to 100 000 S and in the repetition case of 4 000 to 200 000 S. Economic flexibility also means the approximation of the operating conditions. As an example, I refer to the costs of a GmbH registration: They amount to 3 500 S in the USA, 5 000 S in Germany, but 30 000 S in Austria. Or the duration: in the USA 3 days, in Germany 10 days, in Austria, on the other hand 60 days. [[Abg. Aumayr: There's no such thing as that!]] There are numerous examples of this kind, ladies and gentlemen. A law on economic flexibility must also deal with this matter, otherwise we will not be able to improve the location, as Mr Peter said, in the future. However, if we do not improve it, we are getting worse in relation to the competitors in Europe but also in the international environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e15142	Mrs. Dr. Petrovic has now been reported to speak. The remaining time of your club is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e15163	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As Member of Parliament first presented his principles, I listened very carefully. Many of these principles, which seem to have not been written into the proposal, I can quite support them, since I think they are correct: that economy is not a self-interest, that it is important to defend the primacy of politics, and a number of others. Only, Mr Peter, what follows remains far behind these principles, yes, I see no agreement at all. In fact, with the exception of the opening law, only protection provisions relating to the workers are doctrined or dismantled, so that I cannot actually see what was first presented in the principles. [[Abg. May. Peter: Answer if necessary!]] Above all, the consequences that you are drawing – I see this from a very different perspective from that of Mr Nußbaumer – are extremely short. For example, if you say that the amount of labour costs and the additional wage costs contribute to the escalation of the fee, I will answer you that this is partly true. I also think it's just a perverse idea to perhaps create new police units now to stop it. My consequence is a completely different system of financing the State's revenue, another tax system, which I believe should change to two principles: It would have to bring reliefs to labour income, especially for small and medium-sized incomes, but instead – at least income-neutral – it would involve energy in taxation, as well as capital and wealth income. This means that I am not talking about operating capital, but about my private assets and capital income, which are currently clearly privileged in relation to labour income. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] That means, the answers I give are different. Even if you say that the economy is not a self-interest, I think that there are other social values, for example, the value of having a phase for must, rest and consideration, which is already not relevant to all professional groups, but which is largely common. If, traditionally, the Sunday is there for this, I think that Sunday should also be sacred to social policy. On the comments by Mr Nürnberger: I think that something is defended, which no longer corresponds to reality at all. – Mr Nürnberger, Member of the Commission. On the one hand, you have said that you will not go along with these proposals – I will not do that either. But since you have also said that attacks have been averted by your group and are also prevented in the future, I would like to ask you: Where and how, please? – The savings packages have not been invented by the Liberal Forum, not by the opposition. [[Abg. Meisinger: Class fight!]] I think it is indisputable that they have been at the expense of the socially weak: at the expense of women, at the expense of young people in training, at the expense of the caregivers. I would also like to ask you: Where are attacks being countered? Is it not the case that there is a very strong mass-liberal economic trend – which I do not think is true of you in this form – and you try in part to counter this pressure – but where there are strong representations? What is the wage and income level in the oil and chemical industry or in the metal industry – I consciously use the male form – and what about the textile workers? – It shows a different yield towards an all too free play of a detached market, a killer capitalism that has widened there. Another point, Mr Deputies: In some areas no one resists at all. This includes the arrangement for colporteurs, whether they are free entrepreneurs or self-employed workers. In this market there is a huge pressure from certain magnates, which no one resists. It is a selectively free market that has given up some groups of people. Social democracy, too, has given up these groups, and I therefore believe that you can claim that there is something you are defending here really no longer maintaining. Because you defend rights very selectively – the women, the foreigners, entire groups were abandoned. That is why it is a really bizarre debate that is going on here.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e15220	Another speech is made by Mrs Tichy-Schreder. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e15241	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! This is, as it were, the second economic debate we are holding today. I would like to say one thing to you, Mr Peter – several things, but one thing I would like to say to others –: [[Abg. May. Peter: Just one?]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: One that is particularly important!]] They have chosen a very good keyword with the term "Economic Flexibility Act". I would like to congratulate you on this. However, in my opinion, the priorities are misplaced in some respects. With "flexibilisation", I connect other ideas, far beyond the stated points, about how to flexibilize in the economy. But the word sounds good. [[Abg. May. Peter: The content is also not bad!]] Mr Mag. Peter! On a point which I noticed immediately, I would like to ask you to think a little bit toward the future and not just to insist on the past. I know that the Liberal Forum is always ready for the free movement of opening hours, which is a subject you have accepted: release everything. However, Mr Peter, with the freedom of opening hours, you are far from bringing business into shops. [[Abg. May. Peter: Not with the lockup either!]] Because remember what moves people dead eyes in streets suing. [[the speaker shall keep a document up to date]] – This is reality, and not that there are too few possibilities for shopping. All the surveys show that we find the result with the existing regulations. The problems in trade lie elsewhere, and I would like to ask you to discuss them in this debate. [[Abg. Dolinschek: Also over the great trade range!]] The problems lie, for example, in the fact that the volume of sales space has increased by 118 percent since 1976, but sales per square metre have decreased. There can be no strong increase in wages and salaries for employees in trade, as there is no corresponding turnover per square metre and per person. A problem is also the concentration in trade. That is why we have tried to do something about the trade regulations. We must bear in mind that in the food trade, 88 percent of sales are made up of only five companies and that in the area of drug markets, two market participants have attracted 70 percent of turnover. [[Abg. May. Peter: There we have a working cartel in Austria!]] Mr Mag. Peter! If you are of this opinion, you should have referred to this point in the Economic Flexibility Act. [[Abg. May. Peter: Other topic!]] Aha! I say yes, my concept of flexibilization is much more exciting than the one you are addressing here. I would like to draw particular attention to this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The surveys indicate that the problems also lie with regard to holidays elsewhere. I understand you're liberal, you don't need holidays. But this is precisely your reason, Mr Peter, as an entrepreneur in the tourism sector? – On various points, we are quite of an opinion, but we differ in the way we prepare and represent it. If you abolish the holiday on the 15th. August by reason of the fact that he fell into the holiday season anyway and that we did not need him, that is – forgive – a somewhat harsh position. A holiday can not only be rated according to the scale of the holiday period. This reason, according to the motto that people don't need this holiday anyway, because there is just vacation time, I don't like it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Peter.]] ==References== December shall be as follows: It may be that you as a rossel host – however, I think you have now opened in winter – on the 8th. Do less business on December. But in the ski regions is with a free 8. In December, an additional incentive was given. You can certainly talk about holidays, for example, about moving them from one day under the week to Sunday. But You know exactly what it is like to order this by law, as you imagine it. I am surprised that liberals want to order something by law. There must, of course, be a broad-ranging of views in this context, Mr Deputies. That's why you said: We'll do the first reading. And that's why it's good for us to share some thoughts here. With regard to the flexibility of the collective agreement, I would like to remind you of the following: One of the few among the presidents of the ÖGB trade unions working on flexibilization steps in collective agreements is – you won't believe it – the powerful metal union president Nuremberger. It has taken flexibilisation steps in various areas of collective agreements and business agreements because it is at the pulse of time and knows what is happening in the enterprises. [[Abg. May. Peter: Listen! Listen!]] He has no light, and we should try not to impose any additional burden on his position in his group. Because if you praise someone too much, that will put him in trouble again. We note that it is bubbling there, so we should not make it even more difficult for President Nürnberger, but rather give him the possibility that the flexibilization steps laid down in several collective agreements will also be reflected in business agreements in order to make Austria's economic location positive for the future. Because as bad as he is presented there or there, he is by no means. However, he is worthy of improvement, I give you the right to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e15390	There is no further statement on this point. The debate is closed. I agree with Amendment No 679/A to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. 5. Point First reading of motion 696/A by Mr Mag. Reinhard Finglingenrund comrades concerning a federal law amending the Capital Tax Act
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e15434	We're now on the 5th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm Mr President, your club's remaining speaking time is 12 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e15462	Mr President. High house! The proposal by the Liberal Group to amend the Capital Tax Act is simply explained in its core. It concerns the replacement of the exchange rate tax. We believe that this type of tax on capital is a relic which has no place in a modern European economy. We have to deal with a number of competitive disadvantages in the financial square of Vienna, which, I admit recently, have been somewhat eroded by some temporary legal improvements, but a few things are still missing. That is why we believe that the question of capital taxes, even if it does not fall within the overall limit, is a matter which one should really and finally consider. For it bothers investors, the private investors alike and the institutional ones, that the Minister of Finance, in the placement of bonds and shares, as well as in the sale of shares, does and participate, although the revenue from them is actually ridiculous given the amount of the total budget. We are talking about a few hundred million schilling loss of revenue in the event of a replacement of the exchange turnover tax. This a few hundred million schillings could well be used again by the Minister of Finance, since most of the forms of such capital investment are subject to capital income tax, which would certainly make it easy to compensate for lower tax revenue. When I get from the financial centre In Vienna, I would like to remind you that we still have some improvements to make. A few months ago, the new Stock Exchange Act was adopted: That's a punctual, temporary improvement, but it's not the yellow from the egg yet. The new regulation is better than the old one, but there is still something missing; I tried to say that in the course of the debate at the time. The new Investment Fund Act also means a punctual improvement for the Vienna financial centre, because much has become more transparent and clear. But there is still something missing, and I believe that there will have to be legal revisions or legal repairs. There is a lack of something to revive the capital market as a whole, and as an appropriate instrument we consider the abolition of the exchange turnover tax. In Germany you go another way, there you are much more productive and creative. You lead there with 1. In April, not a law, but a whole package of measures, the so-called Second Capital Market Promotion Act. I would also like to see such a legislative work for Austria. It contains everything that can contribute to the promotion of the capital market. I am not speaking to the speculators when I say that the exchange rate tax is abolished. I would like to give you a simple example. The main victims of the stock market turnover tax are small investors who simply want to use a favourable situation, those who want to draw a short-term bond for one or two years, which they obtain on the secondary market. This looks like the following: The current interest rate is just below 4 percent, in the order of 3.8 or 3.9%. Banks calculate – if not a first-class investor – an average of 1.25 percent of transaction costs for the investment in a bond to a year. So before only 1 s of interest has been recovered from the bond, 1.25 percent is due immediately as a fee, in which the capital tax, the exchange rate tax is "packed". The same fee occurs after a year of sale, which totals 2.5 percent. Net is left to the investor – 3.8 percent minus 2.5 percent – a yield of "hot" 1.3 percent. As a result, the bond market dies in Austria. In principle, he only lives on state titles, on federal and country papers. There are very few convertible bonds in Austria and very few bonds issued by companies. In this way, Austria is in contrast to most European countries, it really tends to be, and this bill is easy to understand. In my view, this is also a reason for the lack of a certain corporate financing culture in Austria. For example, if you look at England, you see that the English businessman has the opportunity to issue three-year bonds. In Austria this is missing, although it would actually be useful. It is therefore missing because the relationship between transaction costs and the benefits arising from such short-term bonds has been disturbed. For us this is more a reason to eliminate this relic from the past, just as we believe it is long overdue – just another law – to abolish the credit tax, the state credit fee, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That's something no one can understand anymore: Once a credit ratio is established, the tax on the Fiscus must be deducted immediately – whether the financing is successful or not. The main thing is, the state's snucking with it! Ladies and gentlemen! I therefore appeal to the address of the Austrian People's Party and to the Social Democrats to consider well such a change that would take place for the benefit of Austria. I would like to invite you to submit your constructive proposals on this matter to the Financial Committee. In my opinion, an account that contrasts the benefits of this change to the disadvantages of the loss of revenue is certainly taking place. I hope that you at least agree with me in that there is a need for a boost, a small legal impetus to put something in motion. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e15529	Mr Gusenbauer has now been reported to the House. Rest of the time of your club: 11 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e15547	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Firlinger's invitation was kindly formulated, so it should not be answered unkindly. That is why I shall try to address this matter. They have rightly pointed out that, especially in recent years, since 1994, substantial improvements and discharges have been made in relation to trade on the stock exchange. The stock exchange sales tax essentially affects only part of what is traded on the stock exchange, namely transactions between dealers and clients. The revenue that the Minister of Finance will obtain from it amounts to about 550 million schilling annually. These are not necessarily petitions, because revenue of 550 million once and once there sums up. In my opinion, therefore, in a situation where we are thinking about how we can meet our consolidation objectives, we must in principle consider the abolition of a tax on how to bring this tax to a different side. And it is therefore not in principle to refuse that the entire tax reform will also discuss this issue. I also believe, however, that the abolition of the exchange rate tax required by you is actually contrary to the modern discussion trend. Because the trend in the international debate is rather in the direction of trying to move away from short-term, partially speculative investment forms and to motivate more medium- and long-term investment forms. [[Abg. May. Firminger: Final taxation!]] We can talk about it too! In reality, for example, the Tobin-Tax debate is essentially about a minimum tax on each transaction, and it can therefore be said that the exchange rate tax in Austria is in a reduced form comparable to that. 0.25% on purchase and 0.25% on sale are not huge amounts. But, of course, short-term speculation is only expected from a certain level, and this tax is more likely to have the effect of making longer-term or medium-term investments. Because – you have pointed out – the banks also charge the corresponding fees, which are significantly higher than the exchange rate tax that the Minister of Finance is suing in this regard. There are, therefore, people who believe that the exchange rate tax is in fact far too low and should therefore be considered to increase it even in order to promote such long-term and medium-term investments. I don't want to talk about that. But if the international debate is about moving towards medium and long-term investments in order to achieve greater stability in the financial markets and a stronger identity between the financial economy and the real economy, then Austria should not be the only instrument that – at least minimally and modestly – should motivate us not to speculate on a daily basis. This would be the wrong step in view of the debate currently being held. I believe that a lot can be discussed about the stock exchange. One should discuss how to get away from insider trading and a number of other things. I think that the discussion of such topics is important for the Vienna Stock Exchange Square as well as the abolition of the exchange turnover tax. I would like to be prepared to discuss this in detail in the Committee on Budgets. However, I do not think that there is a proper time or a proper context for this debate. Mr Firlinger! Your proposal is actually going in the wrong direction. That is why I can give you a friendly reply to your friendly invitation today: There'll be little in there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e15585	Mrs Mag. Frieser. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e15603	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am going to be much shorter in view of the advanced time and the fact that we have a meeting after that. Mr Firlinger! I also understand a lot of taxes, which I would like to abolish, in particular, as a tax advisor. You may be right in some cases that the exchange rate tax could be an obstacle. Mr Gusenbauer! Unfortunately, I have to correct you: The "petitesse" of 550 million schilling, which you mentioned, is actually about 700 million schilling. And how are 700 million there and a billion there to keep the budget in balance? If I understand all your proposals in my heart, I cannot represent them as responsible Members because they do not have a budgetary counterweight. I tell you, Mr Firlinger: We would also not be able to finance your proposals with the abolition of political relations. They wanted to reduce the sales tax to 16 percent. That would be a drop of around 28 billion schilling. How do you want to compensate for that? [[Abg. May. Firlinger: Look at the other side!]] If I add all your suggestions now, we'll be in the hundreds of billions category. They could never tell us, however, how this should be financed. With one word, ladies and gentlemen: We will still be discussing this in the Committee. Mr Gusenbauer has already announced this. However, I believe that we can only find a solution with the tax reform of 2000. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e15641	Mr Magistrate has also been mentioned in the debate. Peter. The remaining time of your club is 11 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e15662	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Gusenleitner has already pointed out... [[Call the SPÖ:Gusenbauer!]] Please delete "leitner" and set "bauer"! [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: The agricultural past makes itself felt!]] Agreed! Mr Gusenbauer has already pointed out that the trend in international financial markets and in the debate on financial markets is heading towards Tobin-Tax. However, it is necessary to express clearly - he has not worked out this - that these are actually geared towards foreign exchange speculation, rather than to the normal movement of capital on the stock market. On this point I have problems. I think the current exchange rate rate tax is missing because it concerns all transactions and because it is a purely fiscal policy measure in Austria, whether it is 550 million or 700 million schilling. I believe that this difference is due to the fact that he only means the exchange rate tax and you, Mrs Frieser, add the capital tax to it. [[Abg. May. Frieser: That's 1.2 billion!]] You're right: 1.2 billion, so it's even more expensive. This means that, following the international trend, we should abolish the exchange rate rate tax and replace it with a capital transfer tax or a stock exchange tax based on short-term speculations, such as the exchange-term business and currency speculation. I believe that this should be discussed in the Financial Committee. One thing is certain: If the companies are to be equipped with more equity and if we want to make more than 4 percent of Austrians share owners, then restrictions and acquisitions through purely fiscal taxes must be avoided in order to make it more attractive to participate in companies through the stock market. In view of this, I do not consider a capital tax to be a tax on capital movements if one is to participate in a company with equity. Because we want companies to have more equity. That is why I simply think it is wrong to use taxes on this financial policy.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e15715	This means that the list of speakers is exhausted. The debate is closed. I accept Amendment No 696/A to the Financial Committee. The agenda is also exhausted. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00113_d7e15753	I am still announcing that in today's sitting, the self-employed have been brought in applications 723/A to 739/A. Questions 3956/J to 4000/J were also raised. Finally, a question by Dr Martin Graf, 28/JPR, has been sent to the President of the National Council. The next meeting of the National Council will take place shortly after the end of the meeting of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. It will be opened by bell sign. The written agenda will be forwarded to the Members of Parliament after the end of the discussions in the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. The sitting is closed.
