ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00114_d7e528	Ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the 114. The meeting of the National Council, which will then immediately lead to a vote on the waiving of a delay. I declare that Mr Dkfm. Bauer, Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn, Dr. Hazelsteiner, Scheibner, Mag. Chief, Wenitsch and Mag. Schweitzer than prevented. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00114_d7e559	I refer to the written communication distributed at the meeting room with regard to the negotiating items and their allocation. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Aside from the 24 hour lead-in period
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00114_d7e776	In order to be able to negotiate the report 1109 of the Supplements to the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on amendment 721/A by Mrs Reitsamer, Dr. Feurstein, concerning a Federal Act amending the Unemployment Insurance Act 1977, it is in accordance with the provisions of § 44 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, with two-thirds of the majority, it is necessary to withdraw from the 24-hour time limit for the Committee's report. I note the necessary quota for this, and ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to a derogation from the time-limit laid down in Article 44 of the Rules of Procedure for this purpose. – This is accepted with the required two-thirds majority. This will allow us to go into the agenda. It covers only one point, namely the report of the Committee which the two-thirds majority have just made negotiable by removing from the expiry period. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00114_d7e808	We have reached a consensus on speaking time that each political group, similar to a urgent request, is available for a maximum of 25 minutes. Is there any objections to this proposal? - That's not the case. Then we'll do that. Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 721/A by Annemarie Reitsamer, Dr Gottfried Feurstein and comrades on a Federal Law amending the Unemployment Insurance Act 1977 (1109 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00114_d7e839	I would like to refer to the Committee's report 1109 of the Supplements. Is oral reporting desirable? This is not the case. The Committee's written report is indeed available. Mrs Edith Haller spoke. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00114_d7e869	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The unemployment insurance law is to be amended today and here in the area of emergency aid. The fact that unemployment is a very sensitive matter in this area, which is currently growing, is certainly clear, and this has also documented the interest of the media in the previous meeting of the Committee and in reporting on the print media. However, this area is also a moral scene in which it shows how the Austrian coalition government, which is against better knowledge, decisions, or decisions, as in this case, is pushing ahead. According to § 33 and § 34 of the Unemployment Insurance Act, although foreigners have to pay contributions to unemployment insurance in the same way as nationals, usually none or a maximum of a claim limited to a year to emergency aid. At the end of 1996, the European Court of Human Rights decided that this scheme does not comply with Article 14 of the European Convention on Human Rights. ==References== September 1996 in the Turkish complainant’s proceedings – I may not say the name quite correctly – Gaygusuz. At the time, the guiding principle under which this judgment had been passed was established: The right to emergency aid is a valuable right and it is linked to the payment of unemployment insurance contributions. – This ultimately led to the complainant’s having to pay the emergency aid. As a result, a new solution to the problem was decided by the government and by the votes of the two coalition parties at the beginning of 1997, i.e. a system which is independent of nationality, but which provides for a delimitation insofar as the granting of emergency aid depends on the birth of Austria, the transfer of the half-life or, in the case of under 50s, the half-year-old in Austria or an eight-year contribution. At the time, we liberals did not agree to the proposal because it would have, on the one hand, disadvantaged domestics and, on the other hand, allowed many foreigners unlimited access to emergency aid, which had not been available before. This would logically have resulted in an extension of the circle of foreign claimants and would have been if one did not enter into force on the 1st century. January 2000 had been pushed out, of course, on the cost side at the time, of course. This was probably also the reason for the date for the entry into force of this law. ==References====External links== At the time, the additional costs were already tried to be precisely estimated. I quote from the annex to the 1997 unemployment insurance law. This includes an estimate of costs, which, precisely broken down by entitlement to claim as a result of eight or more years of employment in Austria or the entitlement of second generation residents and so on, predicts an additional burden of 159.6 million schilling for 1998, an additional cost of 185.3 million for 1999 and an additional cost of 400 million schilling for 2000. – The question of financing was not answered to me at the time. The Constitutional Court of Justice has now repealed with immediate effect this Act, adopted in 1997, amending the Unemployment Insurance Act for the sake of human rights illegality, as a result of several complaints in Austria. This would mean that immediately all foreigners – as well as the nationals – would have unlimited entitlement to emergency aid. The cost question has now been raised: What would it cost if you didn't respond immediately? . We heard today in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection from the Federal Minister that there would have been an annoyed extra cost of 1.1 billion schilling. As a result, the Federal Government and the two government parties now strive to put the entry into force under financial pressure. It seems that – at least this was assured to us – the term running is going to take place properly. We had an additional Social Committee meeting today, we now have an additional plenary session, and tomorrow there will be a special meeting of the Federal Council. The Federal Chancellor is – at least we have heard – still before the 1. This new legislative matter can be published on April 1. So far, so good or so far, not so good. A few interesting things have happened in this context, especially in recent times. It is interesting that the labour market service agencies were already on the 24th. In March, by fax from the headquarters, no decisions were taken on new applications. This may be useful in terms of cost minimisation, but it is certainly not quite correct with the citizen. It is of particular interest, however, that today, in reply to my question about the additional costs, the Federal Minister has mentioned quite different figures: In 1998 there would be additional costs of 35 million schilling, and in 1999 there would be 52 million schilling. However, since I assume that the calculations were carried out sufficiently precisely last year and that they were already tried to be rather low at the time, I now have to ask myself what the situation is really in this respect and what the contradiction in these legislations is. Something, some information may not be able to vote, especially because, in the review procedure, the opinion of the municipality of Vienna already mentions 29 to 59 million Schilling additional costs per year. The summation for us Freeman is now the following: We will, of course, not agree to this amendment again, because the current request for advocacy does not exclude a new opposition to matter by the European Court of Human Rights, nor does it preclude any opposition by the Constitutional Court. This was confirmed last year by the Constitutional Service of the Federal Chancellor's Office. We will not agree because we as the opposition party simply cannot approve the bluish attitude and procedure of the Federal Government in this area. We will not agree because we are in favour of a re-construction of the Emergency Aid Act and since we are even from the Constitutional Court in its recognition of 11. In this attitude, the Commission adopted on 21 March 1998 the proposals set out on page 21.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00114_d7e938	The next speaker is Mrs Marianne Hagenhofer. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00114_d7e963	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The European Court of Human Rights, Mrs Haller, has also referred to this, in the judgment of 16 June 1989. In September 1996, it was made clear that the right to emergency aid granted by the Unemployment Insurance Act was a social security benefit and not a welfare benefit. On this very point, it was decided in 1997 in the 1997 government template that all the unemployed, regardless of citizenship, are entitled to emergency aid under certain conditions, if they have been born in Austria or their half-life or, if they are under 25 years old, have spent half their compulsory schooling in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: What does this have to do with insurance?]] – Please listen to me, Mrs. Colleague! – If these conditions are not met, at least eight years' contribution to unemployment insurance is necessary over the last ten years. The government parties considered that this procedure is the social path as that of simply breaking down the emergency aid and then assigning the persons concerned to social assistance. [[Abg. Oillinger: Why?]] It should also be noted – and this will always be kept silent – that Austria has the best emergency aid regime across the EU with this law. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: A racist regime!]] It was implemented in a normal practice according to the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, for these decreed legislative novels the 1. Set out the dates of entry into force in January 2000. The recognition of the Constitutional Court is in its core in line with the judgment of the European Court of Justice, but, contrary to other practice, it sees the immediate repeal of § 33 para. 2 lit. a as well as § 34 para. 3 and 4 before. As you, Mrs Haller, addressed the letter from the AMS, the following was also clarified: The Federal Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs was not informed by the Constitutional Court, but only by the interested authority. But the judgment became known about the media, and there was simply uncertainty among the people. The AMS could not know how to decide here and today. As a result of this fact, the order was given to hold back the applications until today's decision. That was so that legal certainty was given, Mrs Haller. We also discussed this in committee. Old law remains old law, i.e. in those cases where, for example, an emergency aid application was made on Monday, emergency aid is, of course, granted according to old law. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: Would you like to break that?]] And those cases with 1. The new regulation will take place in April. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You must have a bad conscience!]] I would ask you, on behalf of the Socialist Group, to agree to the unemployment insurance law Novelle, which has been amended with regard to the date of entry into force. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00114_d7e1052	The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00114_d7e1074	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The debate will not take long, I assume. The matter is simple, but it is important to make a few essential comments. Question No 1, by Mrs Bundesminister: We've heard today in the job interview that it'll cost 50 million schilling a year if you're with 1. On 1 April 1998, you will have the regulation in force. In January 2000 the Commission decided to enter into force. However, the ÖVP makes Zettel circulate – and the journalists then show up, so today – which according to which this costs 400 million schilling a year. All of this is right for me. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Not even two tanks!]] I could say, If it costs 400 million schilling, it means that at least 400 million schilling are more available for emergency aid to people who need it urgently. That wouldn't bother me. But when will the government, when will the government parties agree on how much it really costs: 50 million or 400 million schilling? Yesterday it was a billion people who were talking about it. This was clarified today in the work interview, I clear it up. Now, however, the gap between 50 and 400 million, and I am more inclined to believe, in exception, even the Federal Minister and her statements concerning 50 million – in this case, because it is supported by the committee. Moreover, this is much more similar to the really restrictive social policy of the Federal Government! Mr Nürnberger showed his social conscience at first reading today. At the current session, which is about the real and not about a first reading, where you can easily express yourself, he is not in the hall at all! He does not seem to be interested in unemployment insurance. We take note of this with interest! He's not here. There's nothing you can do! But perhaps he would also have to tell his trade union why he has given his approval. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hums.]] Mr Hums! You know very well that today's plenary session was only possible because, in the end, all five parties of this House agreed to these procedures in a relatively constructive, perhaps also frivolous manner. This does not mean that people can be reorientated at any time, but someone who just took his mouth very full two hours ago, I miss him now. There are other Members of your group who are not here either. I understand. If Husch-Hush meetings are to be made so that we can fix the coup of the government, I understand that not everyone is there. But those who cry out loud first and draw attention to their social competence should at least be there or be apologised for this session! – It was important to me to say that. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] [[Abg. Leikam: What would you have talked about if Nurembergers had been here?]] The colleague for the previous speaker has already responded to the letter of the AMS of 24. In the case of a case in point, the Court of Justice shall have jurisdiction in the case of a case-law of the Court of Justice of the European – It’s really impressive that the AMS headquarters was already on the 24th. On the other hand, I should like to thank the President of this House, who has tried to obtain it in this way, for the fact that, on the other hand, the Ministry of Social Affairs did not even have the knowledge of the Constitutional Court of Justice yesterday, I would like to believe that the President of this House, who has tried to obtain it in this way. So the ministry had no knowledge yet. It was sent to the interested authority, which is okay. Although this interested authority immediately pulled the trigger and informed all the AMS bodies that nothing should be done, it was apparently too hard for it to fax the Constitutional Court knowledge to the Central Authority. More important was her to definitely make sense. This is truly not a very social and, above all, not a collegial attitude. ==References====External links== It will enter into force on 1 April 1998 and, according to the will of the majority of this House, will initially enter into force on 1 April 1998. In January 2000 it was expected to enter into force, is clearly unconstitutional, is clearly illegal in Europe. This is already in the light of the findings that have been made. You've known them for two years. This scheme is clearly non-equivalent, the insurance claims are not taken into account, and it has an expropriatory character. The list of constitutional and illegalities could be continued at any time. We have already done this in today's work. We have been pleased to tell you once again what you already know from the opposition side so that we can point out later that you have decided in a knowing and not by accident. It is important for me to be able to say that from this pult because I believe that this should be rereadable. It should be re legible for you to decide, knowingly, a European law that is illegal, illegal to equality and expropriate, only so that in the field of labour market management on the cash market you can continue to develop surpluses, which you will not invest in active labour market policy – no! – but use to stop other holes, at pensions or elsewhere. And that's not gratifying. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Is that illegal?]] Mr Novotny! This is not illegal, but it is a misuse of resources. Or do you think that early retirement is a proficient means of active labour market policy? If you think so, then we can talk about it, but I don't think so. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Do you want to increase the pension contributions?]] Mr Novotny! If you are so happy to discuss such issues, come to the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment. There you will have the opportunity to discuss such things in detail! But you can't frighten me with your numbers just because you're the SPÖ's financial spokesperson! For it is not said that if you have surpluses somewhere, you have to use them for purposes. For example, we could also reduce social security contributions if we already believe that they are not needed for active labour market policies. It is not good, however, to stop holes with it! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Should the pension insurance contributions be increased? Tell me what you want!]] You understand me? They cover up the cost truth! It's better for me to be financed in the right place. But this is not the subject of today's debate. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: So the pension insurance contributions should be increased!]] Please don't interrupt me! Because I'm going to be very uncomfortable. I cordially ask you: Don't interrupt me! If you want to discuss with us, then get down from the heights of the Committee on Finance and listen to what is being discussed there! That might be quite instructive for you. For someone who starts talking about money right away, when it comes to social demands, has a strange attitude to this problem, I must tell you! First, we need to define the problem and check how much we need to solve it, and then we have to take care of financing. If it turns out that funding is even more than needed for this purpose, then that is far from a reason to use the money for purposes. – It is important to me to say that. I mean, you should say that again and again, because maybe this drop of water is going to cave this stone sometime. If I have told you that you now knowingly decide what is unconstitutional, you have actually done so already in 1997, but because of the fact that the law was originally only with 1. In January 2000, this aspect had not yet come into force. Get Now However, all the people who are important to the rule of law will have the opportunity, as is likely to be decided by the majority today, to do so at the latest from 1. The Court of First Instance held that the Court of First Instance had failed to fulfil its obligations under Article 107(1) of the Treaty. Otherwise, we would have been on the 1st. January 2000 must wait. That's an advantage anyway. This is not enough for the liberals to give their consent to this matter, but it is certainly an advantage. However, Earlier than you love, you will receive the receipt issued by the European Courts and by the Austrian Constitutional Court. Then you'll be very surprised, because then you'll have to spend this one billion that you just saved yourself, but you'll have to spend it. In addition, you will be left with the European courts two or three more times before, because European illegality is not the most social-politically important, but the most embarrassing offense. This is a complete conflict with free movement within the EU. Now I call you an example from my immediate surroundings: My brother is Austrian citizen, from Graz, married to a Grazer. He has been living and working in Cologne since 1959. He has not been allowed to be a citizen in the Federal Republic of Germany, for he is quite conscious of Austrian, pleasures and mints. He has four children, all are born in Cologne. And they've had bad luck, because they're Austrian citizens. They attended the schools there, one studied in Cologne, and one studied in Graz. This is not enough, however, because she was too quick to study, that was not half the training time. What do you want to do? It falls completely through your new § 34! This may be a rare case, but anyway! We preach mobility, and we are surprised that our young people do not go to Brussels as officials. - They'll take care of themselves! Because then there may be a child coming to the world, who was then born abroad and who no longer conforms to the law at all. Do you understand me? The child no longer conforms to the law! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Is it unemployed?]] I'm talking about the potential. If you create a regime in which you suddenly make the birthplace the archedic point of social policy, I ask you: Why Make You don't want to do this in citizenship? That's where I'd like it. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] But meet with citizenship It is not this scheme, because that would mean that we have another access to integration and would have to disband ourselves from this historical biologistic theory of origin, which is incorporated into our citizenship law. – In social policy, ius soli suddenly applies, but in citizenship ius sanguinis. That doesn't fit! You have lost the overview of the contexts in the legal order! That's what I'd like to say. That is why today is a very pleasant day, because we have the opportunity to present to you, within the framework of a session dedicated solely to this subject, that you are no longer able to make a somewhat reasonable and plausible policy. And then if you do something if you get through to something like this new § 34 para. 2 of the old law, then the Constitutional Court sweeps you away. For the experts, I add that we had two section 34 temporarily: the one that has passed until recently and which has swept you away from the Constitutional Court, and the new one you are now putting into effect early – repair! – which he will only sweep away from you. So you have succeeded in packing in a law two §§ 34, which are swept away from the Constitutional Court in the order of their entry into force. I congratulate you on this government work! Be proud of it! And then this pity that you could not expect the Constitutional Court to give you no deadline! Desperation! The Constitutional Court should have given us a deadline for the repair! In its opinion in the proceedings before the Constitutional Court, the Federal Government requested an 18-month period. An 18-month term! – Does that seem similar to 1. January 2000? Is there a similarity? So one still had the forehead to ask the Constitutional Court to ask for a repair period which is so long that one would have to repair nothing more because of the first time. In any event, in January 2000, the entry into force of which you are proposing to enter into force today would have entered into force! This, please, can no longer be seen as a serious course of action even by the most kind constitutional court. - Point one. Point two: The Constitutional Court has stated exactly why in such a case it was not at all possible to grant a period of time. The illegality of the Constitution was so blasphemous that the Constitutional Court rightly said – you can read it in the explanatory statement – that if only this provision had been repealed but a time limit had been granted, the unlawful state would have been immunised constitutionally and at the same time ensure that the constitutional law could continue to be applied. – No constitutional court can accept this! He hasn't reversed it anyway. Be glad! He could have done that, too. However, it has only removed it with immediate effect, which corresponds to a possible normal case. That you are still in amazement when something like this happens, I really find more than unfortunate. I mean, now everything is said to be said. Mr Nürnberger has not yet arrived. He's not interested in this for a long time. He must probably negotiate any flexibilizations or learn slowly that there is a difference between the Austrian Hotel Association as a free association and the Chamber of Commerce which makes the collective agreements. Maybe he doesn't know! I understand that he does not know, because the metallurgists certainly do not enter into collective agreements with those parts of the Chamber of Commerce which are responsible for the hospitality. That is why he may have lost the overview in this regard. However, I am definitely disappointed because I have thought so far that he is not only a very powerful, but also a very knowledgeable and very committed trade unionist. Now I know: He's certainly powerful, but he's not a knowledgeable person, and he's not engaged, otherwise he'd be there today! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00114_d7e1225	The next speaker was Mr Feurstein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00114_d7e1246	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say, first of all, that all the political groups in this House were ready and agree that we still have this necessary change in the unemployment insurance law today... [[Calls and calls between the SPÖ and the Liberal Forum.]] If you have ended your debates, I will continue, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00114_d7e1268	To that end, I would ask that the debates be terminated quickly. - Please, Mr. Feurstein.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00114_d7e1283	Deputies Kier! I would like to acknowledge to you and to all the others involved that we are very well aware that today we are ready to take part in and take part in this change in the Unemployment Insurance Act after the Constitutional Court has taken a decision which has been very substantially involved in all unemployment insurance and emergency aid. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: But tomorrow you forgot!]] I give Mrs Haller the right to: Emergency aid is a sensitive area. Nevertheless, I believe that: First point: Until recently, the Constitutional Court has clearly and clearly stated that emergency aid is a care measure, not primarily a private law, but an insurance claim. This was found in all the findings in 1954, 1960, 1974 and 1981. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: We do not do legal history here, but politics!]] But he then says very clearly that with the present knowledge he has covered his previous Judicatur, so in principle changed. Ladies and gentlemen! It is very important to note that we have been confronted for a few days with a new jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court, which, of course, also now agrees with the law and the need to redefine the insurance claims. This has already been done last year with a view to the year 2000 because we have assumed from the consideration that the distinction between Austrians and non-Austrians is no longer appropriate in today's time. Ladies and gentlemen! This is the second important point that we made this change in the Unemployment Insurance Act almost a year ago, but with a view to the 1st. January 2000 because we felt that at this time we could really enforce this changed legal status when it comes to the right to emergency aid. Thirdly, ladies and gentlemen, which is very important: The new right to emergency aid requires certain expectations. These are defined in principle with contributions of eight years. However, we know that certain groups of persons cannot meet these conditions. That is why we have added further possibilities that justify a claim to emergency aid. These further requirements have already been defined by my predecessor. Ladies and gentlemen! If we were not to define further conditions of claim – which are strongly criticised by the opposition – starting from the birth in Austria to the school education which one must have completed half in Austria, then we would actually introduce essential hardships in relation to the right to emergency aid and in connection with the unemployment insurance law which we do not want. We have therefore made very conscious measures to extend the right to emergency aid to all those areas in which we believe that this right is justified. Ladies and gentlemen! Last point: It's always talking about the costs. This aspect also had a certain significance in the discussion in the Committee on Social Affairs. I am grateful to the Minister for the fact that, from her point of view, she has said that costs are expected at a certain level. The amount of expected costs has also been mentioned. Of course, there are still much more cases where there may be conditions of entitlement. We have therefore assumed that perhaps more people can claim this claim. That is why we have also written in our paper to Members that this claim may also be significantly higher, because no one can say today how many requests for emergency aid are actually made. That's why a certain span was estimated. In a year and a half, we will be able to say how high the actual expenditure for this new measure we are deciding on today were and are. Ladies and gentlemen! I conclude: It is a measure which is socially correct – we also believe that all groups mentioned in the new legislative formulation should be included – but it is also constitutionally correct, because we are basically referring to the contribution. And that. Decisive: Insurance claims are acquired if you make contributions. That's what we're going to assume. But we don't want any hardness. Therefore, there are additional possibilities to claim and obtain emergency aid.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00114_d7e1337	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00114_d7e1358	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! After Mr Feurstein's trip, which has been breathed in the history of the law, which has passed the Constitutional Court of Justice of the last 40 years, I would like to return to the recent past. Mr Feurstein! I am beginning with the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, which took place in 1996, by which the Republic of Austria was ordered to correct a situation which, in the opinion of the European Court of Justice, is unlawful, violates the Conventions and by which the Republic of Austria treats certain groups of unemployed, namely the foreign unemployed against the domestics, and he also took the view - and this was an important point of finding - that it is an insurance benefit in the case of emergency aid. This was noted in 1996, Mr Feurstein, and the government should have acted accordingly at the latest from that date. For example, it could have referred to this judgment not only in the Government document submitted to Parliament in the following year, but also in the proceedings before the Constitutional Court, which took place a few weeks ago. However, the Federal Government, which delivered an opinion to the Constitutional Court, did not act in the Constitutional Court at the end of 1997 or at the beginning of 1998 as if it did not have this knowledge of the European Court of Justice, and still claimed that it was a care and not an insurance. That is exactly what I am invoking to this Federal Government, Mr Feurstein, is what I am saying: it has acted in the Constitutional Court against better knowledge in the proceedings, as if it were a care, although there has already been a corresponding judgment of the European Court of Justice. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] That's unfair, Mr. Feurstein! This does not, however, concern: You personally, because you were not at the negotiation, but the behaviour of the Federal Government was unfair: In order to correct this judgment of the European Court of Justice, the Federal Government has introduced a government template of which it claims – and you, Mr Feurstein, and all other representatives of the Government parties – that the judgment of the European Court of Justice has been taken into account and that emergency aid has been designed in principle in accordance with insurance rules. And you are still claiming that emergency aid is designed in accordance with insurance rules. But why did the government then claim in the hearing at the Constitutional Court that insurance-compliant design is not necessary because it is, of course, a care provision? Why is this claimed at a time when the law, in which we are adapting only one anniversary today, has long since entered into force? - Because you have a bad conscience! Because you know very well, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties that what you decide here is not clean! [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] You know that it is not an insurance benefit in this form, and you know that the scheme we are deciding on here and today serves only the purpose of excluding foreign unemployed from this benefit. And in order for you to succeed, you are even willing to exclude Austrian unemployed from this insurance, Mr Hums. We can discuss many points, for example, that the costs are supposed to be too high – which would not be true and which would prove to be too good – but you can't go beyond one point: not only the foreign unemployed, but also the domestic unemployed – Austrian unemployed, you should rightly say, citizens – for this insurance benefit. This is what you are buying, because you know very well that this is only a few, you are buying it so that you can take the performance away from the others in any case. Ladies and gentlemen! One could say something about the way in which the government parties are doing, who claim to restore a constitutional state now, although the Constitutional Court’s judgment at the time when you had already decided to do so could not be known to all of you, ladies and gentlemen, in detail. I claim: The Constitutional Court’s judgment is indeed novity, in so far as you, Mr Feurstein, have pointed out quite correctly, when the Austrian Constitutional Court first came to the conclusion that it is an insurance benefit. This is important because I think, in my view, we already know that the judgment of the European Court of Justice obviously does not affect the government. It considers that it does not need to stick to it, otherwise it would not have been able to act at the hearing before the Constitutional Court as if it had not existed. Ladies and gentlemen! I come to the cost: Repair costs would not exceed the possibilities of the unemployment insurance budget even if they amounted to one billion per year. For emergency aid, if I remember quite well, a total of about 10 billion shillings a year are spent. Even if an above-average percentage of foreign unemployed made use of this insurance benefit, it would be likely that even if the costs for emergency aid were doubled – which is an irregular number – you will agree with me, Mr Feurstein – the use of this benefit would still be financially financed, because on the other hand billions will be devalued from the unemployment insurance budget for non-insurance purposes. Mr Feurstein! I am already looking forward to the debate that will take place in a few years before the European Court of Justice – and I am convinced that it will take place – in which you or a representative of the Government will have to declare that it is very legitimate to finance non-insurance benefits, such as the pension, from this budget, but it is illegal to finance insurance-compliant benefits, namely emergency aid for foreigners. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] I am looking forward to this debate, and I am looking forward to what you and the government parties will say about it and how you want to justify it that there is very much money to finance non-insurance benefits, but not the emergency aid for foreigners. I still come to the access criteria. Some of them, Mr Kier, have already taken away from me. The particular absurdity of these access criteria is, of course, that they may still be combined with a care performance, because then one might still require someone, for example, to be left-handed, to prove a positive school success or to be able to record the Austrian Federal anthem without error in order to get into the claim of this provision, but in the case of insurance, this is not possible. There must be a link to the purpose of insurance, and you cannot explain to me why a half-yearly school visit or a principal residence in Austria should be insurance-compliant criteria for unemployment insurance. Perhaps at some point it would happen to anyone to exclude voters of unpopular parties from this access. This would be possible with the same argument that you think is legitimate. I warn against crossing borders in unemployment insurance law, obviously with your consent and approval. What you now decide can no longer be in conformity with social security, because the access criteria have nothing to do with the purpose of insurance. It is a risk cover, ladies and gentlemen, and not that, in order to receive this benefit, one has to prove that one has completed half his schooling in Austria. This is a point you cannot overcome, no more than the point that you have to be born here in Austria in order to be entitled to this insurance benefit. You will not only have to explain this to me, but above all to the European Court of Justice, because you are also discriminating our EU citizens with this point. It is also about them, they have also been addressed on this point. Ladies and gentlemen! I know that your capacity to take up is already a little exhausted at this time, but I think it is necessary to address these questions again clearly and clearly. There were already serious objections to the decision-making process in 1997, not only from the opposition parties but also from the Constitutional Service of the Federal Chancellor's Office, which had some similar concerns, as we, the opposition parties, are expressing them today. I am convinced that you will not be able to win the debate on this law before a European Court of Justice, whether the EGMR in Strasbourg or the ECJ, which is also resident in Strasbourg, because you are really acting against better knowledge, which can be proved by the behaviour of the Federal Government in the proceedings before the Constitutional Court. There you or the Federal Government have still occurred with the request for an 18-month transitional period. However, this period would also have left a gap, because at 18 months, expected from today, you could not have reached 2000, which according to Adam Riese is relatively easy to calculate. You would have come in the autumn of 1999, but you would have had a cover gap. That is to say, the question is: What did you really want to achieve with this transitional period? I interpret: You did not even want to achieve something there, but you obviously knew at the time when you were seeking the Constitutional Court as a Federal Government for the 18 months, that no matter how the Constitutional Court decides – and you were relatively sure that it will decide against you – you want to adapt this law. In other words, you have submitted to the Constitutional Court deadlines which you have not taken seriously. This makes the problem a little more fundamental, not only in terms of how a Parliament deals with a statement from the Constitutional Court, which it does not know, but also in terms of how a government is dealing with a procedure at the Constitutional Court, which is obviously not taken so seriously that it is accused of a bit of play material and says: Well, maybe you're getting to the 18-month frist; if not, we have other instruments at our disposal, we want to decide anyway. We will show you who the Lord is in the house of Austria! This is where the problem begins, ladies and gentlemen, because you cannot overcome one thing: Of course, Parliament is the legislator, but the legislative authority must also adhere to the constitutional principles. [[Abg. Meisinger: Should be!]] And with this law, you've been most infringing!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00114_d7e1419	Mrs Bundesminister spoke. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00114_d7e1440	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, in the previous debate, very often reference was made to the practice of the Constitutional Court. Allow me to quote literally a section out of the most up-to-date statement, from the intelligible knowledge of the Constitutional Court, in which it is a question of finding a definition of the function of emergency aid. The Constitutional Court of Justice refers, of course, to the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights. It says: "In the light of this decision of the European Court of Human Rights, the Constitutional Court of Justice is required to reconsider its previous jurisdiction. In any event, the Constitutional Court, with the European Court of Human Rights, provisionally accepts that the right to emergency aid is protected as a valuable right within the meaning of Article 1(1) of the Additional Protocol to the European Convention on Human Rights. It assumes for the time being that the benefits in question are not those of care, but of social security benefits." I think it is clear from this textualization that the Constitutional Court has deviated from its previous practice of sayings and here it has done this form of interpretation. I would also like to point out that there are also legal opinions – for example, those of Professor Tomandel – in which he shared the opinion of the Federal Government and the majority of the House, so that we are, accordingly, also based on this legal opinion, trying to implement the legal projects. Allow me to refer to a second passage in this Constitutional Court of Justice because it has also been questioned whether it is permissible for the legislator to formulate criteria for emergency aid beneficiaries in this draft. I would also like to quote briefly from this knowledge: "The legislator, through Article 14 of the European Convention on Human Rights, is by no means prohibited from standardising conditions for the acquisition or scope of benefits." [[Abg. Oils: But constitutional!]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Oellinger! If you read this Constitutional Court knowledge in its entirety, you will realize that the Constitutional Court in it interprets its own opinion differently and does not clearly say that emergency aid is a purely insurance benefit, but it does not say that emergency aid is a mere care. [[Abg. Oils: I have several times!]] Instead, he acknowledges the mixed form which is the norm in our social security system. [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! I therefore consider it absolutely acceptable and correct that an application is now being discussed here in the House, which is concerned with the fact that the detailed arrangement, which clearly defines a new set of entitlements for emergency aid criteria, is not now with the date originally envisaged – the first one. January 2000 – to enter into force, but to enter into force in the immediate future, in order to take account on the one hand of the recognition of the Constitutional Court and, on the other hand, to avoid any legal uncertainty and to be able to fulfil all pending requests in proper form. Dear ladies and gentlemen! In my opinion, it is very important to establish legal clarity now. I also consider it fair that the labour market service is aware of the fact that in a few days' time there will be legal clarity as to the criteria for granting emergency aid by the legislator, but no decisions will be taken on current applications. For it would be unfair to refer to a situation that would have had a bad situation compared to the new regulation. I regard this as a command of fairness to the customers of our labour market service. Dear ladies and gentlemen! It has also been repeatedly mentioned about the costs. I agree that it is very difficult to make really profound and comprehensible calculations for potential future claims. Our labour market is a very lively labour market with constant change and great fluctuation in the affected areas. This is also the reason for the fact that, after last year's decision to introduce the new legislation, we immediately began to maintain substantial surveys in order to collect accurate data on the likely effects of the new legislation. The data material we have acquired in recent months has enabled us to estimate more precise estimates – it is still estimates – of what costs will arise if at 1. The change you have now discussed should enter into force on April. These estimates show that in 1998 a net increase of 35 million Schilling and in 1999 an amount of about 52 million Schilling would be created. I would like to add that these estimates have been made under certain assumptions, but none of us can really foresee very precisely what the emergency aid beneficiaries concerned claim from the 1st century onwards. In fact, new criteria valid on April 1998 will be applied to the labour market service and unemployment insurance. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I believe that there have been many questions in the committee and also in the current debate. Therefore, I do not want to use your time for a fee, but I would like to thank you very much for giving a case law of the Constitutional Court a chance which has not been typical in its declaration. It is not typical of the findings of the Constitutional Court, the legislator and the Federal Government for a single day not to give the chance to give further, more intensive advice, to annul existing paragraphs with immediate effect and not to grant the slightest transitional period. I would really like to thank you very much for giving us the opportunity to offer, in the short term, that legal clarity and continuity in the application of the provisions of unemployment insurance, which not least our insured persons and those who need our help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00114_d7e1509	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister. Mr Dolinschek is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00114_d7e1533	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not hide, Mrs Federal Minister, that it would have been better for the Federal Government if the coalition had taken the path of a new construction. I know that the time was relatively short and there was little opportunity, but it would have been better for me if the granting of emergency aid had been otherwise regulated, namely no longer defined as an insurance scheme, so that Article 14 of the Convention on Human Rights no longer forced equal treatment for foreigners. However, this construction would have required a fundamental transformation, such as a shift from social assistance to national competence. In this case, of course, no cost explosion would have taken place, as it will now occur through this construction, because, especially in the years 1990 and 1991, when the Federal Government has virtually operated a non-smooth immigration policy, there has been an disproportionate increase in the number of employed foreigners. This policy is now falling to the head of the Federal Government and the entire Austrian population. On the other hand, there is still the inequality between the children of Austrians born abroad and those who are Austrian citizens and are born in Austria. Mr Kier and Mr Oellinger have also explained this. I don't think that's all right. First, this area of repair would have required some repair and then others. It is also very interesting, in my opinion, that the extra cost in the original government paper has been estimated at around 400 million schillings and that this amount has now been reduced to 35 million schillings this year and 53 million schillings in the next. We from the Freedom Party will not agree to this legislative repair concerning emergency aid for foreigners – as already the change last year. The meaning of a pre-emption of the entry into force of the Convention. January 2000 to 1. In April 1998, nothing changes our rejection of the new regulation and the disbursement of emergency aid to foreigners in the form now envisaged.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00114_d7e1573	The next speaker is Mrs Stoisits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00114_d7e1595	Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. I am astounded at this, Mrs Federal Minister – although I have a little forbearance with you, because you have only been able to know it for so long, and you cannot know it as well; however, we do not have much longer – that here you want to convince the House with quotations from the knowledge that it is a mixed form, as you have called it, when it comes to emergency aid and that it is unclear how to interpret it. In my opinion, however, this is clear, ladies and gentlemen. In my opinion, it is clear how this can be read because it is literally in it. It's on page 8 – you quoted earlier, I quote now – of finding out: In the light of this decision of the European Court of Human Rights, which is now coming, the Constitutional Court sees itself as an incentive to reconsider its previous jurisdiction. In any event, the Constitutional Court of Justice, with the European Court of Human Rights, assumes that the right to emergency aid is protected as a valuable right within the meaning of the MRP. For now! [[Federal Minister Hostasch: Yes!]] You think it's such an interpretation that all of this is not quite clear, and you'll see. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: No, that's a lie!]] But please, on page 18 of this... [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: You didn't listen to the woman minister!]] That's what she said, I listened very well. I see a little bad, but I hear very well. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] On page 18 of this insight, it is our view that it is crucial for us to see why it is now absolutely no doubt that these are insurance benefits. Because there is the following: The key point in this regard is the fact that the European Court of Human Rights in the decision cited above is that emergency aid is a social security benefit which must be provided in advance - that is in parentheses - by the claimant. – That will be carried out even further. Mrs. Federal Minister! It cannot be held more clearly than here in this knowledge. That is what I am pointing out now, because the Members who do not have this text have not read it and because it all goes so fast. For this reason, and not to correct you, I have spoken, because I have not yet known what you will say. Whatever surprises me and surprises me, ladies and gentlemen, because I still have the hope that there is something like reasonable decisions in politics – is the process around this fast – what does it mean quickly? – in order to bring about this most rapid change, it shows the true intention of the government as a whole and of the two government groups, namely the true intention of the policy of foreign citizens' rights over the last few years in different areas, including the whole field of foreign employment and the rights arising from it. In my opinion, however, one has hardly ever gone as far as this time before. In order to continue to maintain the political objective of discrimination against foreign citizens, it is also discrimination against domestic citizens, Austrians after the passport. It is hoped that this will not be all too conspicuous, and it is hoped that there will not be too many who will complain about it because there are not many. Examples such as what Mr Kier mentioned will have to be looked for in order to find them, but there are them, and there will be those affected. These people will do exactly what has now happened – of which you can be 100% sure –: go on the way to the highest courts. We already see ourselves – Mr Oellinger has already done this – faced with the next decision that will have to be corrected again. It really hurts a parliamentarian when she has to see how it is set in full consciousness that is wrong. Mrs Bundesminister, you know that as well as I know. That, ladies and gentlemen, I absolutely wanted to know here, taking into account the words of the Federal Minister, that the Constitutional Court is so evil, force us to do something and not even give us a day. Everything has to go so fast, otherwise it could cost something. Mrs. Federal Minister! We have known long enough how the European Court of Human Rights has decided. This has not happened from one day to another. This has been known for a long time now, so long that we have already made a legal regulation last year. The question is that there should be nothing to cost, because there could be beneficiaries, beneficiaries within the meaning of those entitled to benefit from their right. – I would like to stress this, please, here – as Mr Kier and Mr Oellinger have already done – once again. And those colleagues who may be in danger of believing this subversive, subcutaneous message because it is being transported through the media: For God's sake, Parliament must even hold night meetings, all the Federal Councils of Austria must meet tomorrow because there are foreigners who could claim the claims. Hoppla, that's not going to happen, and that's why this whole staging has to take place here!, I would like to say: That's what's gonna hang. There will never be any doubt as to how much savings there is and how much cheaper it is, but the Austrians will, of course, understand this message by means of certain media: We do not want them with their rights, and we do not want to give them these rights. Last but not least, Mrs Federal Minister: In view of the fact that foreign workers have been preoccupied with the passive right to vote in the works council for years and quite unEuropeanally, I would like to see only a spark as much use as you have shown it in this scenario of the rapid implementation of your interpretation of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00114_d7e1665	The next speaker is Mr Meisinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00114_d7e1686	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The European Court of Human Rights has already decided at the end of 1996 that this Austrian Emergency Aid Act does not comply with the Convention. As a result, I believe that the coalition has decided, at the beginning of the year 2000, a very weak novel in the knowledge that this sham solution will probably not stand before the Constitutional Court. But that is what the Federal Minister has taken into account, and it is so common that the Federal Government reacts in this way. Most importantly, it will be negative, problems will be postponed beyond the next National Council election date, in the case above 1999. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Why has the hesitant coalition not already decided in early 1997 to reorganise this burning matter? If the Federal Government had taken the step away from the insurance variant, to another social security scheme, it would have started to do so, then this problem would have already been solved and it would have become a profound solution. But constructive, determined work has always been a foreign word for this federal government. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Today's fire brigade action is aimed solely at reducing expenditure – and I believe it is incredible – 100 million schilling by the end of 1999 which you, Mrs Federal Minister, have today mentioned in the Committee. Otherwise, as you have heard today, the extra cost would be about 1.1 billion schilling or possibly even 2 billion schilling. One has not completely agreed on this. It remains to be seen whether this new law is being repealed by the Constitutional Court, as has been the case lately, especially in the social field. The current steps of social legislation, which comes from one fat nap to the next, from a law lifting through the Supreme Court to the next, and from a swallow of the law novels in the social field to the next – that, Mrs. Federal Minister, is a truly dangerous puss! You don't even have to threaten the many hard-working Austrians about the media to pursue the pussants rigorously and sustainably. In your social legislation, you are juicy! You are called on to stop procrastinating the coup and at last claim to fight the many miscarriages in your area. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! There is an complainant who claims material damage of 800 000 s. The latter has already gone out of the country after the challenge in 1987 and then has followed this claim. [[Abg. Grabner: Who was that?]] The Court of Justice then gave an opinion on the basis of the fairness of the matter to the person concerned 200 000 S. Ladies and gentlemen, I now ask you: How many Austrians live below the poverty line and have their lives worked in Austria? Where does justice remain if a complainant, as it stands in it, has only worked in Austria at certain times? Mrs. Federal Minister! It would be time for you to be a model of genuine social legislation and not a tendency!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00114_d7e1739	Mrs Petrovic. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the The remaining speaking time is 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00114_d7e1760	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! This is a meeting of numbers today: The Minister of Defence has estimated at the purchases of NATO-suitable tanks. They won't cost 6 billion schilling, but 10.8 billion, a tank about 30 million schilling. So if, next year, perhaps 50 million schillings of additional costs for emergency aid arise, it seems that social democracy is worth the security of two tanks considerably more than the security of many people in need. That's sad! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Polemik!]] Secondly, to the argument that is constantly heard by the Minister of the Interior about the conditions for citizenship, the visible will for integration – which one can talk about –: What is useful to people if they can still do so well in German and if they really show that they want to be part of this society, if they are then caught up by laws that say: Wurst, you can have an Austrian passport, but you remain discriminated! This is the message: People second class! Mr Guggenberger! What are you doing? – I would really expect a clarification to be made. And why did the Constitutional Court say "by now"? – Because, especially in matters of social policy of this House – with the participation of social democracy – the government groups are increasingly threesome about social rights. That's what the squats of the roofs are whistling. They cannot argue that, for example, colporteurs are really the most self-employed workers and, above all, workers, and yet they are denied their rights, however, one makes fifty cases go to the highest courts because it could not fit Mr Dienand or Mr Falk for them to provide social benefits. – Mr Nürnberger, Member of the Commission. The bulwark of the socially weak? Or only where there is no correspondingly powerful counterpressure? Especially with the scheme over eight years of insurance membership within ten years, all seasonal eggs, all construction workers, all workers in agriculture and forestry as well as tourism are thrown out. That is a rule that makes infinitely sad! And one last thing: Not only that unemployment insurance – insurance, Mrs. Federal Minister Hostasch! – is highly active and cleared, as has already been mentioned several times today, the foreigners pay more in the pots than they learn from the statistics and calculations of the workers' chambers every year by about 10 billion schilling! This is a double discrimination that will not, of course, be held! Ladies and gentlemen! It is sad what will be decided on this one day in terms of tanks and in matters of poor people here. I could mention many more legal discrimination here, but I would just like to give you something to think about in the alternation of a sentence that Petra Kelly has once said. Petra Kelly once said: "We can't force them to tell the truth, but we can get them to lie to you all the time." – I would like to say here: We cannot lead you to make socially just laws, but we can bring you to always decide grosser legal and constitutional irregularities that will fall!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00114_d7e1804	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. I do not have a wish for a final word. We therefore come to the vote. We shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1109 of the supplements at second reading. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who, in second reading, give their consent to this draft law to give a sign. – The proposal was adopted at second reading by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. . I note that the draft law was therefore adopted at third reading. Reading of the Official Protocol
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00114_d7e1850	There is a written request from 20 Members not to make a urgent request but to read the proposed version of the Official Protocol so that it can be deemed approved at the end of the sitting. [[Rejoicing]] This will enable the immediate implementation of the law adopted by the National Council today to be passed on to the Federal Council. I will comply with this request and read the following draft Official Protocol: "With the required two-thirds majority, according to § 44 para. 2 LEG removed from the 24 hour period for the submission of the Committee's report in 1109 of the Supplements. Then discussed the report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 721/A by Annemarie Reitsamer, Dr. Gottfried Feurstein and comrades concerning a federal law amending the Unemployment Insurance Act 1977 (1109 of the Supplements). The draft law will be adopted by majority in the second reading and third reading in accordance with the Committee's proposal in 1109.' I ask the House whether there are objections to this version or to this content of the Official Protocol. This is not the case. The Official Protocol is therefore applicable in accordance with § 51 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure, with the end of today's sitting, as approved. The agenda is exhausted. The next meeting of the National Council, held on Wednesday, 15. April, 10 a.m., is envisaged, will be convened in writing. The sitting is closed.
