ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e1342	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to welcome you very warmly, ask you to take the places and open the 127. Meeting of the National Council. I declare that the official protocols of the 124. He proposed that the Court should reply as follows: ==References====External links== Meeting of 28. In May 1998 they remained inconsistencies and inconsistencies; they are therefore considered approved. As an obstacle to today's meeting, Members of Parliament are Applebeck and Ing. Langthaler. Call to Members Rosenstingl according to § 11 para. 4 GoG and § 2 para. 1 GOOD
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e1376	In addition, I would like to inform the House that Mr Rosenstingl was present before the 28th. In April 1998, the Republic of Austria had voluntarily left the territory of the Republic of Austria, after notification by the Federal Ministry of the Interior, was currently in Brazil, and the National Council's plenary session in May was unpunished. Mr Rosenstingl did not appear at today's plenary session until the hour. ==References== June, so yesterday, by lawyer Dr. Zanger, a letter was received from the Parliamentary Directorate, in which, among other things, it is literally called - I quote -: "First of all, I say that I have taken over the legal representative of Mr Peter Rosenstingl. Reference to § 11 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, on behalf of Mr Peter Rosenstingl, I would like to inform you that this is currently in custody during a holiday in Brazil, which, in any case, can only be temporary in accordance with the Brazilian laws. Despite Mr Peter Rosenstingl's willingness to return to Austria voluntarily, the extradition procedure must nevertheless be formally carried out in accordance with Brazilian law. In any event, the detention is limited in time by the outcome of the extradition procedure, which was undertaken by the Republic of Austria. Only for this reason, Mr. Peter Rosenstingl is not able to appear at Parliament's meetings and apologises in this way." - As far as the crucial passage from this letter is concerned. In this context, I should like to remind the National Council of the legal situation given under the Rules of Procedure as follows: In accordance with Article 11 of the Rules of Procedure, each Member is obliged to attend the meetings of the National Council. If a Member is prevented from taking part in one or more successive meetings of the National Council, this shall be communicated to the Directorate of Parliament before the beginning of the meeting or before the beginning of the first of several consecutive meetings. The President then informs at the beginning of each meeting which Members are prevented. As Mr Rosenstingl presented the national Council meetings of 12, 13, 14, 15, 26, 27 and 28. This was announced by the President at the end of the meeting in question. Paragraph 11(4) of the Rules of Procedure also states: "However, if the prevention lasts 30 days or more, the honourable Member concerned shall inform the President in writing, stating the reason. If such a prevention is not justified by disease, the President shall disclose the matter to the National Council. If an objection is raised against the validity of the reason, the National Council shall decide, without debate, whether the Member should be called upon to take part in the meetings of the National Council without delay." It is therefore necessary, first of all, to clarify whether the reasons given in Mr Zanger's letter for the long-term long-term stay of Mr Peter Rosenstingl from the meetings of the National Council appear to be sufficient or whether objections are raised against the validity of the reasons set out in Mr Zanger's letter. I immediately sent the letter of Mr. Dr. Zanger to all the club presidents in photocopy and in addition have all members of the National Council replicated. If objections are raised, the National Council must decide, without debate, whether Parliamentary Rosenstingl should be called upon to take part in the meetings of the National Council without delay. As I have such written objections, namely by Mr Klubobmann Dr. Kostelka, by Mr Klubobmann Dr. Khol and by Mr Mag. Singer - I'm sorry, I read! - Mag. [[Rejoicing]] Stadler, who is opposed to the validity of the reasons set out in Mr. Zanger's apologies, must therefore decide, in accordance with paragraph 11, paragraph 4, whether Mr Rosenstingl should be asked to attend the meetings of the National Council "without delay" in this place of the Rules of Procedure. In this sense, I would therefore like to make this decision to the National Council and ask those Members who are in favour of sending to Mr Rosenstingl the request provided for in paragraph 11(4) of the Rules of Procedure to give a sign of approval. - This has been decided unanimously. This took account of the objections and denied the validity of the grounds claimed by the National Council. That is why, in accordance with this decision of the National Council, I now call on Mr Rosenstingl from this point of view to take part immediately in the meetings of the National Council and, in particular, urge him, pursuant to paragraph 1(2) of the Rules of Procedure, to appear or justify his absence in the plenary session of the National Council within another 30 days. In this context, I expressly refer to the possibility that otherwise the Constitutional Court may have had an application for a loss of mandate pursuant to Article 141(1). (c) the Federal Constitution. I would also like to point out that the reference to the presumption of innocence in the present case is without relevance because a procedure pursuant to paragraph 2 (1) (2) of the Rules of Procedure, in conjunction with Rule 141(1), was necessary. (c) the Federal Constitution does not presuppose the existence of a criminal offence. This request will still be sent to the legal representative of Mr Rosenstingl, after he has been informed in his letter to the Parliamentary Directorate that he has been authorized by Mr Peter Rosenstingl to receive for him all the documents addressed by Parliament to his clients. In addition, I may ask Austrian broadcasting to report on this request within the meaning of its programme mandate. Mr Stadler, I apologize for reading on a line. Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e1469	From the Federal Electoral Authority, the notices have been received that representatives Dr. Hans-Peter Haselsteiner and Ing. Mr Mathias Reichhold waived their mandates and, in their place, Mr Karel Smolle and Mr Heinz Anton Marolt were appointed to the National Council. As the electorate is already present and the members of the House are present, I shall immediately make their fishing. After reading the vow formula and calling for a name by the writer Auer, the new ambassadors will have to do their fishing with the words "I promise". I should now like to ask Mr Schreiber for the reading of the formula and for the name call.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e1493	"They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your duties." Charles Smolle.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e1512	Prisezem. - I promise.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e1527	Heinz Anton Marolt.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e1542	I promise.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e1558	I warmly welcome the new Members in our midst. [[General condolences.]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e1585	We'll get to the current hour, at 10 p.m. The subject is: Lower taxes, create jobs The first speaker is Mr. Dr. Jörg Haider. Speech time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e1612	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! There are two concerns that are of primary concern to the Austrians: One concern is the rising unemployment and the fear of job loss, and the other concern is the growing tax and tax burden. That is why we have requested this current hour on this issue, because we assume that, despite all the statistical beautification, unemployment in Austria is a problem on the basis of which we see that the Austrian Federal Government's economic policy is not taking action. In addition, we know that the Federal Government's tax policy has in recent years led us to have a 45.7% tax rate today - that is far above the average of the OSCE countries, and that is far above the average of the European Union. That is, the Austrian taxpayer works from January to mid-June exclusively for the Minister of Finance and thus for the State's cash registers and not for his own cash offices. If one assumes that the Federal Government has promised to carry out a tax reform in 2000, then I must say that it sounds like a dangerous threat to the Austrians. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This tax reform basically has nothing but a shift in the existing burden. But it does not allow for a massive reduction. I have only one proposal which consists of a drastic increase in the unit values and a 1 per cent increase in the basic tax. This would mean that every owner of an average home whose house has a unit value of about 3 million schillings would have to pay 30 000 s of property tax per year or a resident of an apartment with a unit value of about 1.5 to 2 million s of land tax. We liberals consider this to be simply an unsustainable attack on the Austrian cash registers in the present conditions, as we already have a 45.7 percent tax rate. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is all the more so than we know that, on the other hand, there are also scopes that are out of the way, although the government always says - the Minister of Finance has informed us - that we have no room for manoeuvre on all these issues. But you have room to make tax gifts. This coalition has, for example, agreed that the rich bank of Austria has been beaten up by a bill correction of 600 million schilling for its credit card operations, in which it has committed tax evasions. We seem to have enough room and tax money for this. The problem of VAT - the state has not succeeded in bringing about an orderly tax collection in the sales sector - leads to billions of losses, but on the other hand, there is a willingness to push the wage and income tax burden to the top in the future. This is the point, ladies and gentlemen, that we are saying: We demand that this Austrian government correct its tax policy course and finally allow for a massive reduction in wage and income tax rates in Austria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr State Secretary! Mrs Sozialminister! If you look at this, you see, in 1988/89 you still collected 88 billion schilling from Austrian workers on payroll tax, and in 1999 it will be almost 200 billion schilling. If you say that we have no room for a tax reduction, then I must say that is not an argument for us. I have here the most recent report by a research group in Finland which, on behalf of the Government, The European Union has made a comparison between the countries of the European Union. This shows that a single earner in Austria with an income of 25 000 S grossto and two children he has to care for has a marginal tax burden - that is, for every schilling he needs to pay for his previous salary - of 62 percent. This means that additional work, extra performance and more effort in this country will be penalised with 62 percent extra tax. Of every schilling you earn in addition, you have to deliver 62 grand to the Minister of Finance. This is the real declaration of bankruptcy to the diligent people in our country. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is not in any Austrian tax statistics, but it is in the comparisons of the OSCE, that is in the comparisons of the European Union, and that is what the government is hiding from us at present. That is why we say: Down with taxes! If it is said that we have already done something for the families, we are now reducing the burden on the families, then I must say that is a weak argument. For ten years - unconstitutionally - more than 100 billion Schilling has been taken away from the families, and now they are returned 10 percent. This is a reparation, but not a tax reduction, as we ask! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] For tax reduction policy means that tax reduction will also be the way to more employment. Wherever you look today, whether in the European countries or outside Europe, you see: Where low tax rates are driven, where investment-friendly taxes are on the agenda, where low income tax rates are on the agenda, where simple taxes are administered, there is also a higher level of employment than in Austria. - Look at Holland, look at the tax reduction measures that are now even forced on Sweden, look at other European countries - down to Spain - which only achieve employment effects with a tax reduction policy. Then I ask you why we are not prepared to go this way in Austria, and instead stick to the maximum tax rates that burden the hard-working who have a massive burden on workers, but which ultimately do not lead to an employment effect. We are therefore saying: Down with taxes, cut subsidies, away with so much bureaucracy, slim state - this is a suitable way to achieve employment effects in our country as well. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I just mention one example because we are constantly being asked how we want to finance it. Consider just one example of how you can't keep the state slim: This is the ASFINAG, the road-special financing company. This would have the task of financing road construction in Austria and also of providing credit. - It does nothing at present, but it collects toll revenue of 5.6 billion schilling, and this 5.6 billion schilling goes to total interest payments for old loans amounting to 80 billion schilling. This is a pure redistribution process. For this we get a road construction company that causes 500 million Schilling administrative burden. But the acquisition of capital for road construction does not make ASFINAG, but it does the federal debt management of the Ministry of Finance. Now someone should tell me if that's not a classic case where you can say: Replacementless removal! - One would save half a billion schillings of administrative costs and bureaucracy, and this would ultimately also give scope in a variety of ways to implement tax reduction programs. These are our considerations. You do not need subsidies for young entrepreneurs, ladies and gentlemen! We don't need any promotion actions from the Chamber for Young Entrepreneurs. If you only eliminate this unlawful minimum corporation tax, then you will have many new young entrepreneurs who say: If I am not punished in the beginning for doing myself independently and for creating jobs, then I will! - But you're not ready for that. All the chamber representatives sit, vote for the burdens of young entrepreneurs and then go out and say: We need to create more spirit of foundation and more jobs in young companies. - That's not how you're gonna achieve that! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You can therefore only win with a policy in which you order fair taxes for the citizens who are in the performance competition, whether entrepreneurs, whether SMEs, whether employees - this is our consideration - and then you will ultimately eliminate the black work. It is significant to note here that just a few days ago, when he employed seven illegal black workers, he was caught, for example, for the trade in Lower Austria, the district superintendent of the Chamber of Commerce in Tulln. Then I wonder what to say about the fight against black work. Reduce taxes, create competitive conditions, then you don't have this flight to blackwork, but then you also have a legalization of today's grey or black economy, and then you will contribute to more employment and more jobs - including our young people, who will also eventually look at how we will house thousands of young people who leave the schools on apprenticeships. You shot your powder. Last year, you took out the subsidies so that Mr Klima could say: I have accommodated 4,000 young people, and this year you are missing the money - no subsidies. However, if you set a training allowance which will make the training costs adequately deductible from the tax, you will have thousands more apprenticeships. This is the philosophy of the liberals: Fair taxes for those who want to do work that are willing to work in this country, then you will also have employment and income for the people.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e1748	Mr Ruttenstorfer, State Secretary, spoke on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Before I give him the floor, I would just like to say the following: Some colleagues have asked whether an error would have occurred by the fishing of two Members only after the vote. I can calm you, a Member of Parliament acquires all his rights and duties with the issue of the electoral ticket. If he refuses to do so, he'll lose his mandate. But from the beginning of the meeting he did not only acquire the mandate with the Angelobung, that is, all the colleagues who are here in the hall were of course entitled to vote. I just wanted to make this clear. Mr State Secretary! Speech time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e1772	Mr President. High house! The aim of our economic policy is to create work and, as a result, to be able to reduce the tax and state rate. The key, therefore, is not tax reduction, but the key to our economic policy is to create work. The reasons for this are multiple. First of all, I believe that work in our society has a high priority. He also determines the self-understanding of each individual. The increase in economic prosperity will be achieved over work, and this growth can only be re-distributed. I also think that the lower the unemployment rate, the more socially fair this increase can be distributed to economic prosperity. However, high employment rates and low unemployment rates are also essential conditions for reducing taxes and taxes. For these reasons, the aim of our economic policy is to create work, with the focus of this economic and growth policy being naturally shifted through environmental changes. I do not want to go into the National Employment Programme, which Mrs Social Minister will present later, and I would like to address the fundamental changes at two levels: first at the national level and then at the macro level being pursued at the level of the European Union. At national level, we have pursued a successful growth and employment policy for decades, which is reflected in the relatively low unemployment rate in Austria, at least internationally. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] However, it should not be overlooked that this highly demand-oriented growth and employment policy is at its borders, and for two reasons: On the one hand, the era of the nation state is over. If the State generates additional demand, it is not assured that Austrian companies, Austrian workers, are actually the beneficiaries of this additional demand. Secondly, we must reduce the tax and state rate in the future. Why? - Because we are in competition for jobs with other European countries - I would go further and say the following - even in international competition with other continents. We want to win this competition, but not at the expense of workers, not at the expense of the social network, but through an intelligent location policy. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Are you willing to reduce the wage tax or not? Are you willing to reduce the wage tax or not?]] These three points, which are an intelligent national location policy, I would like to briefly explain: This first includes a new regulatory culture. I believe that the former intervention in monopoly by operating the state itself is no longer modern. We are going this way to reduce the state rate, too, by making these areas, such as Telekom, energy and the financial sector more out of the state, but not completely withdraw, but by regulating these markets, which actually benefit consumers and not individual companies. [[Congratulations on representatives of the SPÖ]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I also think that this better regulation should cover not only the large ones before, but also the balance sheets and the pharmacies, the notaries, the economic trustees and the cetera, in other words, such areas, in order to promote more favourable prices of these professional groups at the Austrian site. I believe that we must also continue to drive the reforms in the State itself. If we are talking about tax reductions, we must reduce the costs of government administration if we do not want to take back State benefits. That is why the reform of the State has a very high priority in us. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: When do you reduce the wage tax, Mr. State Secretary? When do you reduce the wage tax, Mr. State Secretary?]] This includes criticism of tasks, one of which, of course, includes the use of the most modern instruments in the administration, and it also includes the fact that we also have a performance-oriented service right in public administration. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It also includes, thirdly, the new regulatory culture, in addition to the further administrative reform, of course, a reform of support and taxes. This is an integrated part, but not the only key to it. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: The first step is a tax reduction!]] I believe that in the field of promotion, we must move more towards promoting knowledge accumulation. We must move towards technology promotion, towards the promotion of further investment in people's knowledge, but we must not continue the "wide casting pot". [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As far as taxation is concerned, I have no question that we need a reform - a reform that promotes employment and work in Austria - a reform which reduces the burden of labour, which significantly reduces the burden of this factor, because it is important that we come to additional employment and further growth in our country. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: We need a reduction, not a reform! A reduction!]] However, we do not need to shoot this out of the hip and do it punctually, but within the framework of an entire tax concept, as the Tax Reform Commission is preparing and as will be done in the autumn. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker.]] I believe, however, that this can not only be used at national level, but also that we must move more towards employment and growth policy at international level, at EU level. In this respect, the instruments are on the table. We have a common monetary policy that can be used for this; we coordinate budgetary policy. We believe, however, that the income side of the state, the taxes, should be more harmonised within the framework of the European Union, that these instruments should then be used by Brussels as a whole - under our participation - in order to achieve stronger growth in Europe as a whole. I therefore believe that the concept of promoting employment and growth is not so simple that one can stand up and say: If taxes are reduced, then jobs are created. This is part of a comprehensive approach. However, the objective cannot be the primary tax reduction, but the primary objective must be: Create work, create growth so that taxes and taxes can subsequently be reduced in Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e1883	Thank you, Mr State Secretary. We are now entering the debate. The speaking times are 5 minutes each. Mr Magnificent came to speak. Trattner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e1907	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! High house! Do it! What are you doing? You announced here! Creating jobs - making It's her! But You've been announcing it for 20 years, and nothing has happened at all! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] What is it about in the whole debate? - We have repeatedly pointed out to you that the budget is on undulating legs. In 1994 Mr. Klubobmann Kostelka came into the "press hour" and said: 100 billion shillings of expenditure saved! In 1994 and early 1995, the social partners are asked to propose savings. You come to 30 billion schilling. The ÖVP says it's 60 billion schilling. It comes to new elections. It turns out to be 100 billion schilling. In the case of these 100 billion schillings, the population is claimed to be only a third of the income and to be two thirds of the expenditure. In the meantime, every economic researcher, each expert, confirms that the ratio is exactly the opposite, namely two thirds of the increase in expenditure - i.e. tax increases - and only one third of the savings. And that's the problem. You have only got the budget under control in the form that you have burdened the population with additional 149 billion schilling in the last three years. You always preach, you want to create jobs and economic growth. You can't do that! In the last budget debate, we noticed that everything was on the export side. They say the export expectations are good, by export we get one to two percent higher economic growth. Now we have the Southeast Asia crisis, and this will of course have an impact on our growth programme. This is not only what the opposition politicians say, but also the experts of the German central bank, that is also what the experts of the World Bank say. This is exactly the criticism that we have always appropriated. They must focus more strongly on strengthening domestic demand and must not always hope for any exports that pass by like a quiet fan. That is why we have said that taxes have to be reduced, and this has to be done in two ways: Once it is necessary to make it possible for entrepreneurs to create capital for investment. For this reason, we have proposed that the profits remaining in the company should not be taxed so that the companies have a certain substance, if the economy does not run the way they wish there to be an equity base in order to be able to endure a stormy time. [[Complaints with the liberals]] In fact, the enforcement of the second priority is not so difficult. Through the cold progression, you have simply dropped the Austrian taxpayers in recent years. The wage tax revenue has increased from 88 billion schilling to 190 billion schilling - not only through more employment, more income. It was only the cold progression, and that is why the freedom to abolish this cold progression calls for a tax reform in the form of a reduction in the direct tax rate, which strengthens domestic demand because people have a higher available income and increases growth due to increased domestic demand. [[Complaints with the liberals]] How do we want to do that? - We have simply proposed using the reserves that are in the central bank which are not necessary - that is a scale of 114 billion schilling - for the so-called launch of a tax reform. You're going to make it to us: They demand a higher profit distribution of 10 billion schillings from the central bank, they cause the central bank to balance it previously, retroactively paying the corporate tax for 1997, although that would be necessary only in 1998, again in a scale of a few billion schillings. But the proposals of the liberals, the funds that are not necessary in the central bank, for a tax reform, are rejected by you. You have always said no to this. They want to stop budget holes, and that cannot be the policy of the Freedom Party. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We want to achieve a discharge from Austrian citizens, and it is not intended to stop a budget hole, as you have been practicing for years in your budget consolidation, which has actually failed. Your budget consolidation has failed, we now notice. The first wind is coming, the first growth forecasts will not come as they have proclaimed. Even Mr. Dr. Pichelmann, no friend of the Freedom Party, has said the same thing we have already given in this House in the context of the budget debate: Unfortunately, a savings package in the order of 40 billion schilling will be necessary again. You always say you want to do work. You should once accept the proposals of the Freedom Party and reduce taxes. Then work will be created, and economic growth will be induced by domestic demand.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e1983	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Novotny. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e2002	Mr President. High house! I mean, the whole action that the Freedom Party has launched here today is just going to be empty. It is not about the question - and this must be emphasized - tax reform yes or no? The Minister of Finance and also the Secretary of State have agreed to a tax reform, and a tax reform committee has therefore been set up. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] In reality, the question is: Do we want a tax reform that is sound, a tax reform that is thoughtful and serious, or is it to come up with a tax reform that is only organized as an electoral campaign and that can then be repaid by the citizen in the form of new tax packages after two years? That's why it's really happening! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Peter: You want a tax reform that brings more taxes!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Tax increases!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] I would like to say very clearly: We Socialists are in favour of a serious tax reform. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We are in favour of a tax reform which brings relief to those who really need this discharge. We are in favour of a tax reform, but this is not at the expense of education, training, health and infrastructure. And we are in favour of a tax reform that is not at the expense of social benefits. These are the criteria that we believe must apply. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You're burdening the citizens now!]] Ladies and gentlemen! If I look at the FPÖ proposals according to these criteria, I have to say: You cannot meet these requirements. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Fine!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Thank you, Mr. Oberlehrer!]] First of all - the history of your tax proposals has long been - you have provided for a key request that the tax rate should be reduced to 35 percent of the gross domestic product. Now you give it a little cheaper, now you are for 40 percent tax rate. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You've never voted for anything, Mr. Cot! Social democrats against wage tax reduction! That's good!]] Mr Haider! I would recommend you to recalculate once, instead of repeatedly repeating keywords. You know: One percent reduction in the tax rate means a loss of revenue of 25 billion schilling. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Social Democrats against wage tax reduction – that is the truth!]] That is, what you are asking for here are revenue declines in the order between 115 billion schilling and 225 billion schilling. Ladies and gentlemen! To believe that we can finance such massive loss of income without reduction in the social sector is simply naïve and that is deeply inconvenient. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Tut for the 114 billion in the sheet...!]] What we have to say - and Mr Trattner has finally suggested - is that you know for yourself that this is not possible. You just don't trust to say where you need to cut down everywhere. It is very remarkable that They are always very general in the case of proposals for a reduction. That means you are not as naïve as you do, but, ladies and gentlemen, you are not honest, you are not honest in this area, and that is bad for the Austrians. That is why we will not vote in favour of this point. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You're shortening now! Who cut the care allowance? – You cut it short! They reduced the allowance for the disabled!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! You also have to see something else. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Who reduced the care allowance?]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Who has reduced the care allowance for the disabled?]] The implementation of the FPÖ tax proposals would, to a large extent, mean a benefit, not to taxpayers in general, but to favour the beneficiaries of high incomes and the business sector. [[Abg. Böhacker: This is an absolute nonsense what you're telling!]] I will prove my position to you, Mr. Cot. We have achieved the last tax reform and success...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e2241	I call Mr Novotny. Previously, Mr Trattner was able to say his arguments, and next, Mr Dr. Stumpfully will do so. Mr Novotny is now on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e2260	Some may not be willing to listen to arguments. It's about: We have pursued a policy in the last tax reform, in which we have lowered the tax rates and removed exceptions. That was a successful policy, and we are ahead of many states. What you are asking for now is that although the benefits for the business sector should be retained, the exceptions we have deleted should be reintroduced. An example of this is the tax exemption amount for non-recovery profits. This is one of the points that we saw in the tax reform at that time as a countermeasure. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is what the Socialists in the European Parliament say, not we!]] You can talk about it. One can also talk about reintroducing exceptions, but that is a completely different system. Then you can't do the other thing. Just pick out the raisins, you can't. In addition, this is a rosin pick-up that has no real employment effect. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: What is the Schröder doing, and what are you doing? – Schröder wants to reduce taxes, you want to raise them!]] Mr Haider referred to us as a model for three states: Finland, Sweden, Spain. Do you know how high the unemployment rate there is?
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e2303	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e2318	In Finland, there are 13.4 percent unemployed - what you are just showing. [[Abg. Dr. Haider keeps a brochure up to date]] This country has an unemployment rate of 13.4 percent. In Sweden, the unemployment rate is 7.3 per cent, in Spain 8 per cent. The measures you want us to propose have been taken to this end, and we will certainly not do so.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e2351	The next speaker was Mr Günter Stummvoll. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e2370	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen here in the House! I would like to make one clear and unmistakable at the outset, ladies and gentlemen - because today also verbal foglights are among us -: First: The People's Party is in favour of a tax reform. [[Abg. May. Stadler: ÖVP does not pay any taxes!]] Secondly, The People's Party is in favour of not just a redeployment, but a discharge under the rule. Thirdly, the People's Party is the party which acknowledges that a well-informed, reasonable tax reform can also have positive economic aspects in terms of job security. Fourthly, ladies and gentlemen: The EIA acknowledges that tax policy is an important part of economic policy, but not the only one. For us, fiscal policy, fiscal consolidation and financial compensation are a unit. The task is not so simple that you can make yourself here and say: Tax down, and that's it. [[Abg. May. Stadler: 999 362.07 S owes the ÖVP to the state!]] Ladies and gentlemen! To demonstrate Mr Haider's unscrupulousness: He makes himself there, announces a tax reduction of around 100 billion and makes a proposal for a savings of half a billion. That was his example. This is deeply inconspicuous, so we cannot do fiscal policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] We must fight in full responsibility for these three areas of fiscal consolidation, tax policy - is also employment security - and financial compensation. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Free yourself from these keywords, Günter! You demand the same thing as us!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I know the concepts of the opposition. They are really deeply insidious and unfortunately are not a basis for a substantial discussion here. And one thing, ladies and gentlemen, must also be said: I am in favour of this - I have said that again and again - and I too believe that the current tax and tax rate of almost 45 percent is too high. No question at all. But it is just a national economic code, there are also other key figures of the economy. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Why don't you pay taxes in the ÖVP?]] For example, I call the unemployment rate. Our unemployment rate is the second lowest in the European Union. Our youth unemployment rate is the lowest in the European Union. At the per capita income of the population, we are in the fourth place in Europe. [[Prolonged calls to the liberals.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] These are the economic indicators that you are always concealing, ladies and gentlemen. They're only telling half the truth. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: And you're hiding half the time!]] Half the truth you say! If you are quoting from a tax act here - Mr Haider, please be careful now! -: It is surprising to me, it is very surprising for me, Mr President, that Mr Haider and Mr Stadler have individual documents from a tax act, but he does not know what Rosenstingl and comrades have done. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Who are you talking to – to me or to him?]] This is very surprising, ladies and gentlemen, very surprising! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I would like to think once again how it can be that there are documents from Mr Haider from a tax document, but he did not know anything about the Causa Rosenstingl, Mentil, Schreiner, Gratzer, ladies and gentlemen. This is credibility à la FPÖ, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] That's it! But I must also briefly explain the facts of this tax act so that it is transparent. Fact number 1: There has been a disputed legal question between the ÖVP and the Financial Office for Companies. In the spring of 1997, the Financial Office for Companies passed this act on to the Ministry of Finance. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: When does the ÖVP pay taxes?]] There the act remained for three years. The Ministry of Finance then announced that the Finance Office should decide on its own autonomy. The decision took another one and a half years. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You haven't paid taxes for ten years, dear friend!]] The ÖVP has fought them at the administrative court. Duration: three more years. A total of seven and a half years. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Pay at last!]] The ÖVP has paid all taxes properly. The Financial Office for Companies itself has stated that it would be unfair to pay interest for this long period of procedure, for which our party could not pay for seven and a half years. And the only thing that is possible in this rule of law, namely to go to the Supreme Court on a disputed issue, will not make us disputed, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] One thing is also clear: the FPÖ strategy is easy to see. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Sit in the government and pay no taxes!]] It's a pure distraction strategy. Whoever has butter on his head, ladies and gentlemen, should not point his finger at the others.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e2563	The next speaker is Mr Mag. Helmut Peter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e2581	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! So the goal is, as Ruttenstorfer told us, to create work to reduce taxes. - This is again one of the beautiful sayings that stand in the room, one of the beautiful sayings in which it would be so important that they have content. Mr Ruttenstorfer! You will not do any work - except you employ new employees in the state service. You, Mr Ruttenstorfer, are talking about you first creating work and then reducing taxes. You can only do that if you first create conditions in this country that will make more work possible again. There is enough work in this country, there is too little paid employment in that country. There are not enough registered self-employed, but there are many, twice as many unregistered self-employed who have withdrawn from registered, legal employment and entered illegal employment due to your tax and tax system. We are currently discussing a great deal about this grey sector of the economy, which is growing to an appalling extent every year. That is to say, you contradict yourself, Mr State Secretary. They say that demand-oriented policies fail at the national borders. You're right. On the other hand, you say we have to pursue location policy, so supply-oriented policy to be more attractive to the customers of this world and to customers in their own country. If you want to, then you have to reduce the tax and tax rate first, as a condition for the location to become more attractive in order to create more employment. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The aim is to create work to reduce taxes. - That's the real fog that Mr. stupid has just sounded. The exact opposite is true. In order to make it easier to operate in Austria, to satisfy more customer needs and thus to be able to employ more people in the labour market, you must focus on the local policy, as you yourself have formulated. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This federal government is lucky to be swimming into an economic upturn. The export economy is booming - we are going to have a real growth this year - and at the same time unemployment is rising in this country. This is the classic sign that this federal government has neither understood nor handled structural change. This means that the framework conditions under which the economy works in Austria, which are the industrial society, have long been in the information society. Here you can see the tension that you cannot create with work and bridge down taxes, Mr State Secretary. They must take local policy and structural policy seriously. You have to question the cost of this state. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] They say it themselves: reduce the costs. What have you done in the last ten years to reduce the cost of this state? The opposite was made: This state is daily, has become more expensive weekly. You are able to present a budget - at a time of 3 percent real economic growth, in the high economy! - which has a deficit of 70 billion schilling, just below the Maastricht limit. There's the mistake in there. Here you go the completely wrong way by having too many government expenditure that private economy, which employs employees who inhibit the labour market that inhibits the growth of the private sector in that country. Dynamic control policy means having the courage to emerge from the statics of the small one-time of camera lysics. High taxes, high tax rates often bring lower tax revenue than lower tax rates, which can bring higher absolute tax revenue because more dynamic is behind it. Mr State Secretary! You know the Laffer curve. You know that too high a tax rate... [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: She's never worked!]] Mr Novotny! This curve has worked in New Zealand, it has worked in Holland by adopting courageous politicians from the static budget policy and by resorting to a dynamic tax policy. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: There are enough studies on this!]] They have thus created more available purchasing power, turned on economic dynamics and brought the country out of the static system. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Read the studies on this!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The spirals that this federal government has to answer are turning further. The transfer volume increases with the casting can, which is not centrally directed at the people who need it. The direct tax level is high, the indirect tax level causes purchasing power to flow abroad. Fees and charges are on a "all-time high", the stamp fees are doubled. Channel fees in Austria are no longer manageable. And we still have luggage taxes. Let the economy be allowed, and let go of the wrong sentence, that you must first create employment, in order to be able to reduce taxes. You will only create employment - you said it was only misinterpreted - if you run location policy and allow economies to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e2660	The next speaker is Mr Deputies Van der Bellen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e2678	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, the government parties are reluctant to talk about the tax rate in Austria. It is now indisputable that it has recently become the highest of the Second Republic. And this tax quota - which the government parties are reluctant to hear - has not just happened, but has been a consequence of the 1996/1997 tax package. These did not fall from heaven either, but were a consequence of the missing policy from 1993 to 1995 - at once only these years. The statement by Mr Pühringer, who I finally read in the newspaper, that all these load packs were necessary only because of the regional policy of the 1970s, is, of course, absurd, that is not a question. But that the government parties, ÖVP and SPÖ, are responsible for the policies of the early 1990s with all their consequences and consequences, that is probably indisputable. The fact that the tax rate is too high is also true of the Greens. The fact that taxes are too high on the labour factor is also true of the Greens. If one wants to deal seriously with this problem, it is probably too little, as Mr Haider said, to talk only about the reduction of subsidies in general. Mr Stumvoll, who criticised this statement, did not mention any other measures. He did not go into detail with any statement or respond to his ideas or to the way in which he imagined the counter-financing. [[Abg. Böhacker: He always does that, stupid!]] That the taxation of work is too high is also to be read in the last OECD report on Austria, whose reading I recommend in particular to colleagues from SPÖ. This is an inconceivable source, and there, in particular - that is perhaps especially unpleasant for you - is the point that not only the taxation of work is too high, but also the taxation of capital is surprisingly low in comparison. This too has not happened, all that you have passed with your laws in the last ten years. In this context, I would like to draw particular attention to the phenomenon of payroll taxation in Austria, which - Mr Novotny, of course, knows just as I do - is about 80 billion schilling a year. And this is somewhat atypical in the area of tax structure within the European Union. Wage tax to this extent is nowhere else in the EU. This is interesting because we have a lever that we could set in motion if one had the political will to have a lever to reduce labour costs - from the point of view of entrepreneurs - without reducing wages. As soon as we talk about the reduction of additional wage costs and so on, I have had the experience that many people are afraid and believe that this means the reduction of wages. This is, of course, in no way necessary. You can close the line between gross and net wages in a completely different way. However, if we are talking seriously about the reduction of payroll taxes, we are either talking about large amounts or we are best not talking about it. 80 billion schilling is a fine amount, but 5 billion or the like - I fear that this will come out of the Tax Reform Commission - is not worth the speech, which plays no part in the labour market and in the demand for labour. The representative of the SPÖ, Mr Novotny, said, above all, that counter-financing proposals were necessary and that the margin was low, that the cash registers were empty and so on. To this end, I would like to say: There is a margin for tax reform, which would substantially reduce labour costs, if you counter-finance them by increasing energy taxes, which is ecologically necessary anyway. This allows you to make massive progress in the reduction of pay-as-you-go tax and also to create a large upholstery for the reduction of wage and income tax, i.e. for private households. This is necessary in this overall concept anyway. This tax reform is feasible - even in the case of empty checkouts. For this it is not necessary to provide for any upholstery in the budget, which is also feasible for empty checkouts if you want to. This tax reform, which covers the ecological needs which, by reducing wage and income tax rates with a negative tax component, creates social security and which is conducive to the reduction of taxes on employment, is urgently necessary. That would be my appeal to the SPÖ, but also to the ÖVP: Tax reform is possible if there is a political will to do so. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e2713	Mrs. Hostasch has spoken. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e2731	Thank you very much, Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In the national but also in the international debate, it is undisputed that tax structures, i.e. the level of taxation, as well as the distribution of taxes, have an impact on the level of employment. There are fundamental economic interactions, for example, that there is an impact of taxation on the promotion or also on the inhibition of investment decisions and thus on the creation of new jobs. However, the relationship between direct and wage additional costs is also an important factor for the inclusion of additional workers. Not least, the ratio between gross and net wages should be considered, the latter once again demarcating the scope for consumer and purchase decisions, but also the relationship between transfers and entry-level wages, or the introduction of taxation, which also affects the taking up of employment in the low-paid segment, is essential. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to stress that the debate on this question has not yet been concluded and I have some doubts that it would be a right policy for certain groups of problems to be encouraged by the tax relief of these groups of problems. I am concerned whether such a policy would be correct in the sense of our understanding of employment policy. But I think it is important to continue the discussion on this issue because we are trying to go this way in other countries, and not least the comparative models that we will make the subject of our joint deliberations in the context of the National Action Plans for Employment, will help us to achieve greater evaluation. The importance of taxation on the location quality of an economy at work in the short term can be shown by the wage unit cost development of the domestic industry, very valued ladies and gentlemen. In addition to the development of unit labour costs, exchange rates and productivity also influence the short-term priced competitiveness of an economy. I am therefore convinced that when we come to a single European currency, it will improve the competitiveness and thus also the security of jobs in Austria and also in the EU Member States. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In the 1980s, the Austrian industry was able to significantly improve its competitive position vis-à-vis Western trading partners, despite an effective increase in schilling by about 1.3 percent per year. Relative unit labour costs fell by 0.8 percent per year compared with the average of the trading partners and the European Union between 1980 and 1990. The industry made strong wage increases by improving productivity, and it is also confirmed by the industry that this trend has occurred. From this point of view, however, I would ask those responsible for economic and industrial development to implement this development into concrete, new, additional employment conditions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! Let me also make a clear commitment to our individual tax law in the discussion on tax systems. This individual tax law is crucial, in particular, for the independent employment of women, because I would be opposed to any tax system that would be directed against the interests of self-employed women. It is therefore important that we have this system in Austria in order to ensure the proper high participation of women. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Now I would like to refer briefly to some of the contributions to the debate. Mr Trattner said: Create jobs! - Dear ladies and gentlemen! The policy, which the majority of the House has been able to do over the last ten years, has brought about the creation of 175,000 jobs since 1990, which means a 6% increase in the employment of the self-employed. This is a success in cooperation between the economy and politics, which has provided the framework conditions for it. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Mr President, Mr Haider said that the unemployment statistics show a statistical beautification. To this end, I would like to say: As honest and open, as transparent and comprehensive as the labour market service and my department informs the public about the development of the labour market, i.e. without beautification, without any distortion, I would like to experience it with another state once. We are asking ourselves this data because it is a challenge for us to fight for more employment and fight unemployment! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! Our employment policy - Mr Ruttenstorfer has already mentioned it - has a macroeconomic approach. We believe it is necessary and essential that all policy areas should be in the service of higher employment and lower unemployment. As a result, tax policy is also required to ensure that measures are consistent in Europe. Of course, tax policy must ensure that the tasks of the State can also be carried out in a comprehensive sense and that the State can fulfil its obligations to the citizens. In the same way, however, it must be ensured that social security systems are guaranteed in their financing. The interactions are diverse, and it is therefore not enough to remove only one area without referring to the effects of other policies. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I therefore believe that the adoption of the National Action Plan for Employment, which has a very ambitious objective of creating additional 100 000 jobs by 2002 - of course involved in a positive overall development of the economy, which the economic researchers are looking for - will succeed in reducing the unemployment rate from about 4.5 per cent to about 3.5 per cent, and that we will achieve the objective that we have jointly formulated, namely to halve the youth unemployment rate and to halve the unemployment rate of older Members. However, we will also work to ensure that active labour market policies are clearly supported by educational measures. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would ask you to support this policy.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e2821	The next speaker is Mr Gaugg. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e2839	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! - Mr State Secretary, in your statement you meant that the goal was to create work. I ask you: Why don't you do it? - With this tax and labour market policy in Austria, you will not even be able to get out of the opening holes, let alone reach the goal. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They do not reduce taxes, nor do you create work: They produce unemployment. They always argue that unemployment in Austria is modest in international comparison, but we do not have the highest rate of early pensioners, that we have a low level of employment, that many people are in re-training, and that you have to take budgetary measures again this year to give 4,000 young people a chance so that they do not stand on the streets. - That's what I'm saying. Its form of tax policy, which ultimately also reflects the level of the tax rate. Mr. Universitätsprofessor Novotny has here said from the speaker's desk that everything that comes from the opposition parties is unforgivable, unforgivable and indecent - what is there this at all? - because 1 percent reduction in the tax rate would amount to 25 billion schilling. That's what I'm asking myself: What is a high-ranking and highly-paid expert round on the occasion of the 2000 tax reform? - you should have the courage to say honestly that this tax reform will bring further burdens. Despite several tax packages, despite deterioration in pension systems, despite zero pay rounds for officials, despite staff reduction at post, train, OMV, Federal Forest and so on, you still have a marked increase in the budget deficit of 70 billion schilling. That is to say, you already lack 70 billion schillings today, which you want to obtain in the course of a tax reform, which will come at a sudden rate after the next elections, and that is why you will put on the tax screw again. Tell us where you see the scope for a tax reform. In which areas will you lower? - I always hear the key word of "eco-social tax policy". You've ever missed this opportunity. The energy levy was introduced on the grounds that labour costs should be reduced in order to reduce the labour force. Today you take in 7 billion schilling from the eco tax, but no one shilling of these has been used to reduce labour costs - not to mention the overtime extra benefits and the insolent handle in the taxpayers' pockets! There is no other tax in Austria, which has increased in such an explosion as the wage tax. In addition, the uncertainty at the workplace is added. This is not only very bad for professional and life planning, it is also bad for private investment, and it is also bad for a person's psyche. You should write that out behind your ears, because here in this hall you always act as if everything was all right, and give beautiful speeches about the National Employment Programme, which does not receive international attention. Read the latest EU brochure: It mentions other countries praisefully - Austria is not below it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They are constantly talking about a wave of founders. The founding wave in Austria is as follows: In the first quarter of 1998 we had 12 percent fewer companies. I will also mention the reason for this: If you want to start a business in the United States, you need 10 dollars and 10 minutes to do so. With us, there is a need for zig thousands of schilling for the chambers, then an average of eight months is required until approval, at least 30 forms, three lawyers, two economic lawyers - and last but not least, you need a doctor because you are fixed and finished. That is the reality of how it is present with us! Therefore, do not always act as if you were taking action! They are always talking about the future and what will come. Why should I put it? You're not a sign, a clear sign that shows your willingness to reduce the labour cost factor? - Lower. You're the wage tax, you're going to create safe jobs!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e2894	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Merchant. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e2913	Mr President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! In this debate, two framework conditions should be put out of dispute, which may then be the starting point for a discussion. First condition: The employment policy pursued by the Austrian Federal Government is very successful. We have less than half the unemployment rate of other EU countries. Second framework condition: Budgetary policy is also successful. We have achieved the consolidation goal in a sustainable way. These two conditions give us the guarantee that there can be a tax reform at all, that this tax reform will at all be sprayed. But this tax reform must, of course, take place within the framework of the consolidation rate and within the scope of the consolidation objective. We are all committed to this consolidation course, it has been successfully implemented, it is sustainable and we do not want to endanger it. Small and medium-sized incomes have nothing at all if, for example, taxes are reduced, but then, in a second stage, social expenditure has to be reduced as a result of an excessive tax reduction. No one has anything of that. The tax reform must therefore take place within the scope of the consolidation objective. But - and this is also important to mention - in the context of this consolidation objective, wage tax reform must be a priority, because the reform of wage tax can actually create new demand. If we look at the current economic situation, we recognize that the economy is particularly affected by investment and exports and that private consumption is a little behind. It is therefore important to stimulate this private consumption. It is quite easy to increase the best economic promotion, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, the demand for products and services. This is far more important for small and medium-sized enterprises than all the tax advantages that anyone might have. In this context, it must be said that the family package will bring 12 billion schillings, which will also go directly into the private sector. In the first place, then, within a possible tax reform, wage tax must stand, but not only because it is important and because demand can also create jobs, but also because it is fair. Indeed, wage tax has increased much faster over a longer period of time than in the case of profit taxes. Since 1990, we have recorded a 95 percent wage tax growth and one of the profit-dependent taxes of less than 50 percent. So in this period, profits have developed much better than wages and salaries. It is therefore also fair to set this priority. It is also fair because, in the last savings package, we assumed that it is balanced because all the population groups were taxed according to their share of gross domestic product. Only: The wage taxpayers have contributed to their share, but we lack at least 4 billion schilling in this package of savings from the entrepreneur side. I just mention the road pricing for trucks that has not been achieved, the minimum cost and the formation of reserves for anniversary payments. For this reason, too, the first-place setting of the wage tax is a command of fairness. In addition - and this has already been said - it must, of course, be a relief of the factor of work, because this factor is in any case more burdened and because we need a change to other factors, in particular energy. It must also be mentioned that the tax reform is also intended to secure revenue and that is why we need to create a new volume for a wage tax reform. Above all, it is a question of improving the fight against undeclared work and creating cooperation between the various authorities, as Mrs Minister has said. It's perfectly clear: Where there is black work, there is also black money, and where there is black money, there is also tax evasion. I think you could win a lot under this title. The whole subject area of business without evidence, the whole subject area of VAT residues must be treated in such a way that it can actually generate new volume for a wage tax reform. And if this volume can be created, it will be the best support for small and medium-sized enterprises, especially for jobs, and in this case the circle will close. For the best promotion for these companies - which you must repeat time and again - is a reasonable demand for products and services. The best promotion for these companies is therefore a consumer promotion. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e2972	The next speaker was Mr Feurstein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e2990	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Employment policy is clearly a priority. It is a matter of all measures, whether economic policy or fiscal policy, to ensure employment in our country. That's our primary goal. I therefore welcome the fact that the Finance Minister of the Tax Reform Commission has given a clear mandate: Measures must be made in such a way that positive effects on the labour market can be achieved. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the primary objective of tax reform! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would therefore also like to make it quite clear where our priorities are. I do not think that - this should also be a finding - that individual groups are being played against each other: Self-employed against self-employed, unself-employed against self-employed. We have nothing of that. However, we need a clear relief from the middle class, the middle incomes. The tax reform must relieve those who reach annual incomes in the order of 200 000 S, 300 000 S, 400 000 S. This is where we have to start with the tax reform. We must relieve these hard-working, capable people by a change in taxation, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would also like to call on the Tax Reform Commission not to cause any uncertainty. I reject the fact that there are opportunities for taxation of 13th and 14ths. Monthly salary. That must be said quite clearly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I also reject the fact that we are considering making changes in the value-added tax and the basic tax on the taxation of the assets of the substance. Ladies and gentlemen, there must be no such thing! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would also like to say quite clearly: We should not exceed the vocabulary "ecologisation of the control system". If Mr Van der Bellen believes that it is possible to impose 30 billion Schilling on the Austrians eco-tax, I say a very clear no, ladies and gentlemen. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] Who would be affected? - That would affect those who have to pay for heating. The 2 million pensioners would have to expect a substantial increase in their cost of living. It would be burdened by our commuters who need their vehicle every day to get to the workplace, and many other groups too. A clear no, but indeed a meaningful transformation and an ecologicalization, which also takes into account social components! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The objective of tax reform - and this is very important for us - must be a harmonisation of tax policy at European level. We can no longer afford that certain areas of taxation are getting away more and more. I am thinking of the question of capital transfers. The EU and also the Tax Reform Commission are called upon to deal intensively with this issue of capital transfers that have reached greater levels than our economy would need. We call on the EU to address this issue and to draw up concrete, useful proposals. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] The tax reform is intended to make clear from our point of view that performance is worthwhile through hard work. Just as the family tax reform has brought 12.6 billion schilling into relief for the families - genuine discharge, ladies and gentlemen, not retranslations, but real relief for the families -, so the forthcoming tax reform should also intervene where it concerns the people who make their contribution to our economy.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e3082	The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e3100	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The finding is sad: The AMS is pleading. The Chamber of Commerce does not pay its debts. The Chamber of Labour refuses the passive right of election to foreign workers. [[Abg. Koppler: But this is an understatement!]] And mass incomes are taking a strange development, Mr Koppler, namely: gross wages are rising, but net incomes are falling. And here you all want to hear nothing about the cold progression and the urgent need to relieve mass income?- Oh, my God! This would also be a very valuable contribution to job creation. If mass purchasing power is constantly declining, this is not good for all those involved in economic life, and in particular jobs are lost. Because falling demand for mass income means loss of jobs at the other end of the chain. Mrs. Federal Minister Hostasch! If you're talking about interactions and interconnecting, I'll give you the right thing. Only: Unfortunately, most of the interactions you have spoken about are no longer in the positive direction, but have long been in the negative direction. I can understand Mr Feurstein when he refers in this context to the discharge of the families. It is a good thing, but at the same time the scope for a genuine tax reform to relieve mass income, including that of families, has been reduced. And what we are criticizing here is that there has not been an overall review; of course, both, not just one of them. It was a short-term political goal, which could also be used for the sake of general reform, for the sake of the PR. We must not expect courage for structural reform. If Mr Feurstein - I was dealing with him because he spoke directly before me - has expressed his concern about the effects of ecologizing taxes here, I will give him the right. It is not a problem in the case of low-mass incomes when energy prices actually rise due to an ecologisation of the tax system. Of course, in the area you address - with the pensioners and so on - this is not unconnected. And I don't know anyone who wants this seriously unconnected. Of course, it would be a prerequisite for an effective energy taxation that we first ensure efficiency in the Austrian electricity industry. This is why I mention this because it was originally on the agenda tomorrow, but because of a lack of agreement. If we had efficient structures and therefore at the heart of lower prices, we could, without affecting consumers, open up a powerful source of taxation for the greening of the tax system and for the reduction of wage-related taxes and taxes. Just this interplay is already to be considered. And that's why I mean, It would be a pleasure if the Chamber of Commerce were to move ahead with exemplary effect and, for example, to announce: We have put in place a four or five-year programme to halve our chamber envelopes. We want to narrow down, we want to become more efficient, and we want to get rid of the fact that we consume a total of 8.4 billion shillings a year, without anyone knowing exactly whether every single shilling has been spent usefully. The money is spent at best on the inside - probably hardly to increase the efficiency of the economy. If you would really use only 10 percent of these 8.4 billion schillings for founding offensives, you would earn the name "Economic Chamber". - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e3135	There is still a speaker in the current hour, Mrs Gabriela Moser. As I have just received a proposal for a urgent question to be debated at the present partsession, there are a few minor problems to be resolved. I will therefore convene a short presidential meeting after Mrs Moser's speech. It'll only take a few minutes, and we'll have clarity. - Please, Mrs Moser.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e3156	Mr President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Reduce taxes, yes, but lower payroll taxes and lower wage tax - so that we can deal with this differently! More important than the reduction of taxes, however, is the repainting. I can very well illustrate both arguments, both demands by examples, by examples. Taxation reduces what the wage tax is going on. On Saturday you could read the example of a family with a five-year-old child in the "Salzburger Nachrichten". In 1995, gross income was 25 000 S and in 1998 gross income was 26 430 S. The total tax burden on wage tax in 1995 was around 37 440 pp., in 1998 at 46 272 pp. This is an additional tax burden on the wage tax, which is not calculated in inflationary terms, these 2 323 S are not inflation-adjusted. This you draw from the smaller and medium incomes annually because you do not agree on inflation. Please, this is the current policy, Mr Feurstein, and you say you want to strengthen middle income! They keep weakening her. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This example can be proved absolutely blatantly. Inflation is silently overmanoeuvring the income growth of 2 232 S year after year. And this is the case with the smaller and medium-sized incomes! As I said, 26 430 S Gross income. In any case, the lever should be used as a result of a reduction in the wage tax. Secondly, Lower the total wage tax. I can show you a graphic here. [[The speaker holds a graphic representation in the height.]] Austria is clearly top-ranking in international comparison, as we account for 2.8% of gross domestic product. For comparison: United Kingdom 0, Germany 0,0. Please, work is being destroyed! In any case, pay-as-you-go taxes will turn off many of the funds that should be better invested in employment from the companies. We need to find another source of funding for the family compensation fund. There are annual corporate funds that could be better managed elsewhere, for example through higher taxation of energy. In this regard, Mr Feurstein - before you leave the hall - a brief correction: Our tax model provides that, at the same time as higher taxation of energy, which leads to a shift, everyone, whether he is a day or 90 years old, receives 10 000 s in the year Ecobonus as a compensation for having higher costs for heating. If you save heating costs or reduce heat, you have practically one more profit. You can look at the case examples. Socially poor pensioners get out positively, they have an additional income over the environmental bonus according to our tax model. Now I would like to focus very briefly on the second essential priority, i.e. not only the reduction of payroll taxes and wage tax, but also the necessary redeployment. For example, we have to reduce the additional wage costs and at the same time make up for this tax revenue from another pot. I have already mentioned this: It is a tax on energy and it is also necessary to pay a service-dependent kilometre to ensure that we finally introduce the cost-effectiveness of road transport. This shift model could move a total of 130 billion schilling - a sum the Minister of Finance seems to dream of. But this dream can become reality. It's documented, it's calculated! I would therefore like to make a comment on statements by the Government Bank and the opposition. Mr Haider said: Lower taxes and thus create jobs! - This hocus pocus doesn't go up, it's not a model. We have a model. Mr Ruttenstorfer said that employment was created by stronger economic growth. - Yesterday you could hear that Dr. Schulmeister pointed out that economic growth would necessarily have to be more than 4 per cent in order to achieve an employment effect. This is not the case, however, according to forecasts. Growth does not bring employment - unfortunately this is not the case anymore. Growth brings more profits, i.e. higher capital gains. In particular, as Mr Feurstein has already said, the lever applies across the EU...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e3214	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e3230	... to be used in the taxation of capital income. Lowering is important in certain sectors, but even more important is repainting. - Please be kind to it!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e3257	I don't have any further words. This concludes the current hour. I am now interrupting the sitting for a few minutes and asking the members of the President-in-Office to hold a brief formal meeting.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e3284	I'll start the interrupted session again. Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e3312	I announce that the Liberal Forum's club entered the agenda in accordance with § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure requested urgent consideration of the written question 4522/J by Dr Heide Schmidt and comrades to Mr Bundeskanzler on overdue ORF reform before the entry into the agenda. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the request for urgent procedure will be made after the agenda has been completed, but three hours after submission, i.e. at 3.30 p.m. I would ask you to take note of this. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e3336	The agenda for the meeting now taking place includes two points. As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e3509	Before I deal with the agenda for the sitting which is now under way, I declare that I have the written request of 20 Members to read those parts of the official minutes of today's sitting, which are related to the parliamentary withdrawal procedure of Mr Rosenstingl. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, I have to comply with this request and therefore read the relevant parts of the Official Protocol as follows: "The President of the National Council shall inform the Assembly of the fact that, before the 28th session of the Council of Ministers, the Member of the Council of Ministers shall: In April 1998, the Republic of Austria had voluntarily left the territory of the Republic of Austria, after notification by the Federal Ministry of the Interior, was currently in Brazil, and the National Council's plenary session in May was unpunished. The President loses the essential parts of the 15th century. Apologizing letter (Annex B) of the lawyer Dr. Zanger, which was distributed to all members of the National Council. There are written objections to the validity of those in Mr Dr. Reasons given by singers (Annex B/1). The National Council shall act unanimously in accordance with section 11 para. 4 Mr Gog, Mr Rosenstingl, was asked to take part in the meetings of the National Council without delay. This took account of the objections and expressly denied the validity of the reasons claimed by the National Council. The President is therefore addressed to the Deputies of Rosenstingl within the meaning of § 11 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure call for immediate participation in the meetings of the National Council and, in particular, ask it to take part in the meetings of the National Council in accordance with Article 2(2) of the Rules of Procedure. 1 Z 2 of the Rules of Procedure to appear in the plenary session of the National Council or to justify its absence within a further 30 days. The President asked the Austrian Broadcasting Board to report on this request within the meaning of his programme mandate." Is there any objections to this version of the Official Protocol? - This is not the case. It is thus decided and approved and will enter into force at the end of this meeting. The finding that Mr Rosenstingl is not taking part in today's sitting will also be made at the end of this sitting. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e3566	I have the proposal to sum up the debate on points 1 and 2 of today's agenda. On the other hand, are objections raised? - This is not the case. That's why we're doing this. I shall now go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e3593	I would like to say that the President-in-Office of the Council today agreed on the design and duration of the debate on the agenda as follows: A day-block speaking time of 2 "Vienna hours" has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ 30 minutes, ÖVP 28 minutes, Free 26 minutes, Liberal Forum and Greens each 18 minutes. The Hoge Haus has to be on top of that. I therefore ask: Is there any objection to this allocation of speaking time and the duration of two hours? - This is not the case. This is a one-way decision. 1. Point Report by the Court of Auditors on the motion for a resolution 789/A by Dr Peter Kostelka, Dr Andreas Khol, Dr Hans Peter Haselsteiner, MMag. Dr. Madeleine Petrovic and Comrades concerning the mandate of the Court of Auditors to carry out special acts of conduct review (1265 of the Supplements) 2. Point Report by the Committee of the Regions on the proposal from Parliament and the Council to the Council for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to Johann Ewald Stadler and comrades on the mandate of the Court of Auditors to carry out a special act of conduct of the examination of events (1266 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e3642	We come to points 1 and 2 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. I do not have a wish for oral reporting. The first speaker is Mr Georg Wurmitzer. A voluntary speaking time of 8 minutes was proposed. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e3667	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The National Council will today decide on an audit mandate concerning the conduct of the political parties or the National Council clubs. This decision is based on two requests, first of all on the request of the four parties SPÖ, ÖVP, Liberal Forum and Greens. This application shall include the immediate audit order to the Court of Auditors in accordance with § 99 GOG. It was adopted unanimously by the Committee. I assume that it will also be adopted unanimously in plenary. This means that the Court of Auditors can immediately begin to examine the conduct of the political parties and the National Council clubs. Today, the Court of Auditors could start their work. I can tell them from this point of view that we also trust their work and their expertise on their own. [[In the case of the ÖVP, the members of the SPÖ and the Agg. Wabl.]] The second request that exists today is that of the Freedom Party. It consists of two parts. Part 1 includes an invitation to the Austrian Federal Government to submit a legislative proposal for the examination of parties. That is to say, the Freedom Party leaves its legislative competence, which is assigned to the National Council under our constitution, and requires the government to propose a law. It would be weeks and months, if we agreed to this request, until such a law exists. I note that the Freedom Party seems to be focusing on time. Apparently she has something to hide and hopes for the grace of time. The second part of the request of the liberals is a task for the Court of Auditors to examine the parties to this House, and - please listen carefully to me - in the order of their mandate. This means that the SPÖ should first be examined, then the ÖVP and only then, thirdly, the Freedom Party. - You even believed that we would agree to this request. I would like to congratulate the one who has had the idea of formulating this request in this way. He just did not expect us to catch him at this point. You know very well that your request would mean that you will not be examined until after months or - probably your wish - only after the next National Council election. But we don't play this game. I ask you: Do you have anything to cover up? [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] It is of course different in the media and outside. Mr Grollitsch said in committee that the FPÖ had given rise to this. - Mr Grollitsch! We are happy to let you take the lead in this question, because the FPÖ is really the cause and occasion for this examination, it is the first of this kind in the history of our Republic. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: No, no! I don't think so! Mr Kostelka!]] We do not place any emphasis on the authorship, we are happy to let you take the lead in this question. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The need for examination lies not with the government parties, but with the Freedom Party. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Kostelka!]] And if this examination is to have meaning, then the first thing to do is to limit the damage to the status of the National Council by the misbehaviour of a Member and a whole party. We from the People's Party want to prove to the people that we are dealing with not only the budget resources but also the means of taxation entrusted to our Party. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In this context, we expect the Freedom Party to stand to blame in its own ranks. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: But you've already had a badger, haven't you?]] Mrs Partik-Pablé! You make the same mistake that you always commit: They want to settle debt against debt. As a judge, you should know that this bill never goes up. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Let me tell you something from this point of view: You should never answer with aggressions against others on your own fault. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Krüger.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That's right! Write this over your ears!]] That increases the blame. That is why I urge you to give up the "Politics of the Burning Earth". They should stop crossing, polarizing, and tearing down graves. I particularly appeal to your organizations in the federal states. The Austrian population is not helped if the Freedom Party in the countries, especially in my federal country of Carinthia, is constantly cross-border and the treatment of important issues such as those of the Olympic Games or waste disposal is blocked by their veto. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] We do not like it, either, if your Federal Party Partyman moves through the country like a Legionary and acts there once and once as a fighter, but nowhere does he bear the responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party! I would therefore ask you to consider your responsibility. I read a recent example of this in the "Press" last Saturday, and I fully agree: It is indifferent whether the credit agreement has been signed for the Freedom Party of the Members of Parliament, Mr Rosenstingl or Mr Gratzer. It is crucial that they have received 7.5 million Schilling tax money from decent and honest savers. You have used it, you have also consumed it. You therefore have the baffled debt to repay this money if you do not want to expose yourself to other suspicions. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I quote from the "Press" of the 13th century. ==References== There it says: "Rosenstingl and Gratzer have not been raised by banks, but by FPÖ in their positions. This one also now has the damn duty to fix the matter.” Meanwhile, the international media also recognize the links and arrange them very precisely. I can tell you the following: Whoever can be given a general authority by his own party as a party observer has not only a general authority but also a general responsibility. - That's the side of the medal. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I quote from the "Neue Zürcher Zeitung" of 6. June 1998, in which it reads: "However, since 1986, Haider has largely shaped FPÖ according to his image, so that he bears the responsibility for scandals, abuses, inability and infrequent violations of laws - the political responsibility he so often demands from others. However, he has not shown any guilt to date. He knows that his game is probably lost. It was to grow up to be an indispensable partner in Austrian politics. Although it has become quite large, it has not become a partner.” I can tell you what I said to Mr Haider when he was elected head of state by Carinthia - he thanked me as a clubman of the ÖVP - that: You don't have to thank yourself, but never forget that you always need a partner.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e3807	The next speaker is Mr Kostelka. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e3826	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr President. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Submit a confession!]] The history of the application to be decided today is the history of a "control party", which must be forced to transparency and control its own party finances. Ladies and gentlemen! They talk about the liberals again and again about the "glass party". This picture is not incorrect, but it is in need of compensation: Their "glass party" consists of fragile milk glass. The schemes of free sources of funding, which were recognizable, are unclear, contradictory and therefore need to be clarified. There is a large standard work on party financing by Sickinger, which for the year 1996 comes to a total volume of the Freedom Party of 357,8 million Schilling. [[Abg. May. Stadler: It would be nice!]] This does not surprise me, because the party finances are quite predictable. However, you yourself, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, are, of interest, only coming to a total volume of 94.1 million schilling. Sickinger rightly notes, therefore, that in no other party, especially in financial matters, there is no difference between being and being in such an extent as with you. You are right in your request, which is still in the vote today. Contrary to your own party financing reports, where a total volume of 94.1 million schilling appears, you are talking about an "Economic Sheet" report in the present proposal, in which 286 million schilling is granted to you. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: SPÖ?]] - No, FPÖ! Look at your own request! Look You have your own request, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! You will be able to read the result. This is an example of dubious handling of finances. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] They blame themselves on you as a decent, diligent party, as a capable party in Lower Austria of the housing cooperative [[Abg. May. Stadler: Nice!]] "Free living" that you have established to make everything - especially in the housing sector - better in Lower Austria, the missing basic capital amount of 15 million schilling will be re-shooted. You really believe that's what it's all about. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Look at your 30 million!]] Mr Trattner! That's not all paletteti. First of all, I would ask you to explain the great wealth of the FPÖ, which you have repeatedly said exists. Above all, I wonder: How do you use these 15 million schillings if, in addition to the means of party funding you are not allowed to use for this because this would not be appropriate, otherwise only funds of 13.1 million schilling party tax, other proceeds of 600 000 S including events and donations of 0.7 million schilling are available? That's a total of 14.4 million schilling. In other words, you have a wealth which does not even allow this necessary transfer due to the financial disaster in Lower Austria - not to mention the more than 60 million schilling that the party has in addition to debt. That's dubious handling of finances! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] What particularly impresses me in this regard is how light-footing You are passing away from the really problematic handling of the community and the diligent, decent Austrians who have bought apartments from you. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Your previous speaker said you shouldn't be like that...!]] Ladies and gentlemen! A total of 15 million Schillings were found to be in addition to housing buyers: 15 million schillings in three years! - for the construction of a total of 18 apartments, i.e. nearly 1 million schilling per apartment, additional 5.2 million schilling of over-excessed bills. These overcrowded bills were made by liberal companies. Ladies and gentlemen! There are only two explanations in this context: Either it was free party funding or it was funding of free party officials. Both, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, have nothing to do with the derision you accuse. This is in need of information. This is a deal with finances, as we certainly do not want to have it. We have the ability to let ourselves be controlled. They wanted to stop that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] That is why - I mentioned it earlier - the history of this request is an attempt to prevent control by the Court of Auditors. Look at your own request! You did not even have the courage to request the review of the parties themselves, but you asked the Federal Government for a government template for a corresponding legal basis. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Court of Auditors has such competence. That's not a question at all. Even if you were to dispute these, you could have put forward an initiative proposal that could have been decided before the summer. The direct play of the band in this billiard game has only one sense, namely to achieve a delay of at least six months. They're afraid of control. That's the whole truth. You have something to hide, and that's why you want to prevent control. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That's why we encourage them because we "fear" them!]] If you want another proof, I can call it: In fact, you have written in your request that the control should only be carried out per futuro. Nothing should be monitored retroactively. That's where it's gonna be interesting. You have something to hide, you have problems! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: This is already orderly!]] We not only control the others, but also let ourselves be controlled. But your request, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, also demasks you in a different context: First the others are to be controlled - and then first you. It is intended to be controlled in the order of the mandate - and when the legislative period is over, the liberals may come to the line. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill will not go away! Show me your request, and I'll tell you who's the ghost child you are! Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! Rosenstingl is not an individual case. I've said it before: The Freedom Party is a biotope in which Rosenstingl and others had to thrive. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: What is your swamp? You're the real swamp!]] Hairstyles, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, often make a better appearance in the short term. But you also have short legs!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e3999	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Stadler. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e4018	Mr President. High house! My two previous speakers tried to act as if they had just invented control. - Ladies and gentlemen, it was you who jointly rejected the setting up of an investigation committee in the Causa Rosenstingl, Mr Kostelka and his group and colleague Khol with his group. [[Complaints with the liberals]] But now you're acting as if you've always wanted to have untenable reconnaissance. That is not the case, however. They don't want any information at all! They're on the 26th. May, after your secretary's report on what the FPÖ is proposing, namely asking for an audit of the parties and the clubs, to be panicked and quickly put together one's own request, so to speak, to intercept the FPÖ! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Only, ladies and gentlemen and colleague Wurmitzer: You have read a fact quite noblely, and this will probably also interest the President-in-Office of the Court of Auditors, namely the fact - now, Mr Wurmitzer, please be careful. - that we demand freedom of movement for control of the entire financial performance of the parties and clubs. - Read your own request, which says only: the public funds of the clubs and the parties, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Your application refers only to the future!]] There is a huge difference, Professor, a huge difference! I'll show you the difference. Because, ladies and gentlemen, at the SPÖ, 33 million schillings flow from the club to the party. Do you know how these are booked? - As a donation! This could not be controlled by the Court of Auditors after the SPÖ's accounting. That's how it works. This is to be read in the magazine "NEWS", which is confirmed by Mrs Ederer and ultimately by Mr Kostelka: a donation of 33 million schilling, ladies and gentlemen. This has nothing to do with the dedicated use of club finances. Ladies and gentlemen, it will be much worse. According to "NEWS", there is an internal accounting at the SPÖ. So this allows for the conclusion that there is also an external one. The external is for the display window, and the internal, says Mr Kostelka... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Kostelka.]] Yeah, you said that. I quote Kostelka [[Abg. Arbitrators: You quote a magazine! That does not have to be the case.]] "The parliamentary club does not have any invoices on the ordered work - it is meant to be at the SPÖ -." Kostelka, colonel, quotation marks, Mr. Cotsche Schieder [[Abg. Arbitrator: A quotation sign is not a proof of truth!]] "Maybe the internal accounting and the party's public accounting report differ from one another." Please explain this to me, Mr. Arbitrator. You clubman doesn't even argue, he's sitting in here grinning in front of him. He confirms - I quote it again -: "Maybe the internal accounting and the published accounting report of the party differ from one another." - We'd like to know. Therefore: Review of the entire conduct of the parties, ladies and gentlemen, and not just a few public funds that you prove to be donations in your turkled accounts, in your turkled external accounting, Mr Kostelka. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Kostelka) You're a swamp flower!]] If one wants to control all the means of a party, a change of law is necessary - at least the Court of Auditors has informed us. And that's exactly what you're talking about. They do not want to reveal all the means. You don't want to reveal how and what you use your money for. They do not want to reveal how you manage your dubious social funds decided on at a party meeting. We disclose this: voluntary, notarially certified and publicly comprehensible! [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Wabl.]] Mr Wabl, if you have the cutting, seriously disabled people who are neglected in this state and who get money from us laugh at, then this shows who's mind child you are. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That's the problem: They create "pots" you don't want to let control. However, we liberals want these "pots" to be controlled too, Mr. Schieder. This is either the material difference which Mr Wurmitzer did not understand - which I think is quite possible - or which I deliberately overread. I think that is rather unlikely, ladies and gentlemen. He simply did not realize that there is a material difference! - Yes, thank you, Mr Wurmitzer, too. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wormitzer.]] Now you've learned something about it. It is not true, it is a positive thing for you, if you are not just sitting in Parliament to cash gags, but learn something from time to time. Mr Wurmitzer, it was you as a clubman who, in 1994 when the ÖVP was calling for Carinthia, went to the negotiations with the FPÖ and said that he wanted to be part of the coalition agreement to increase party funding for the ÖVP. [[Call the liberals:Ah so?- Oh, my God!]] That's how it happened. And just because the FPÖ was not prepared to turn the ÖVP into millions of dollars, this coalition ultimately had no stock. Ladies and gentlemen! The ÖVP is at all in favour. You can't handle money; we know that you've been pleading and lost one choice after another in Carinthia. And then you - the fine Mr Wurmitzer, who has his hand in his own pocket on every occasion - wanted us to help you fill the bags. Ladies and gentlemen! This is the problem that the ÖVP has. Mr Khol, the President-in-Office of the Council, knows that you want to be his successor. They do not need to exhort him; he himself is able to lead the presidency. But if I'm with you right now, Have you ever paid back those 10.3 million schillings, which, according to the 1995 Court of Auditors report, have gone from your party academy under your leadership to a dubious business company of the Political Academy of ÖVP? - 10.3 million schilling! This is to be read in the report. Mr Khol, I ask you now - you have the opportunity to declare this today -: Have you ever paid this money back? - Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I do not know if you are aware of this: 10.3 million Schilling, according to your 1995 Court of Auditors report, went to a dubious business company called "Economics Company of the Political Academy GesmbH" - I would like to know who was all partners there. Have these 10.3 million schillings been paid back during your activity - you were very generous in this economic operation of the GesmbH Political Academy - once, Mr. Exleper of the Political Academy Andreas Khol? Have you ever paid that back? - This is tax money and is paid back, or we will deduct it from the ÖVP on the next occasion! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That Mr Stumvoll could not explain today, ladies and gentlemen, as with the tax... - But wherece, you could not explain that. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: What?- Oh, my God!]] You, Mr stupid, cannot explain to anyone, no entrepreneur in this country, why, although a trial is pending at the Supreme Court, you still pay only suspension interest - and that in the amount of a whole million? I will read to you a central passage from the 1996/1997 tax yearbook valid for all financial officials, Mr. Stummvoll. Now you may also be able to learn something: "There is no legal basis for extending the suspension of the collection in accordance with § 212a of the Federal Tax Code for the collection of a complaint before the courts of public law beyond the date of the adoption of the respective completion of the appeal proceedings." - Citation. That is to say, the ÖVP should have been paying seed supplements and late payments, ladies and gentlemen, and they are higher than the suspension interest. [[Complaints with the liberals]] But it has been addressed; it has been directed at suspending payments. - Sagittarius Don't be stupid, my colleague. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Sure!]] That's understandable! The ÖVP has addressed it. It is in the government, it must be a little good, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Don't you know yourself?]] Mrs Fekter, we want the Court of Auditors to be able to examine all of this, but you do not want it to be examined. You just want to check how a few million party funding is used with you. There you will be able to "freeze" the internal accounting. But the processes, ladies and gentlemen, which have become public, as you deal with tax law, how you manage this, while no entrepreneur in that country can judge, show how it is ordered; therefore, the restriction on the use of public funds according to party financing law, according to Club Funding Act. The rest, after the request of ÖVP and SPÖ, does not concern the Court of Auditors. The fact that the two other smaller opposition parties are playing here shows in which boat they have long been sitting. You can hardly expect them to be there at last. That's why they played along. That is why there is this four-party proposal. We will also agree. This is the first thing we want to do, namely to examine immediately how public funds are used. But believe me, we do not leave you out of drawing up a legislative amendment that can also be controlled by the Court of Auditors by the remaining means used and used by the parties in that country.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e4216	Mr Wurmitzer has reported an actual correction. - Ladies and gentlemen, start with the facts you want to correct. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e4248	Mr President. High house! From this point of view, Mr Stadler has made the claim that the ÖVP had been in favour of 1994 and that the Klubobmann Wurmitzer had approached the Freedom Party with the request to decide on the promotion of a party. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: He has made many claims!]] This finding is twofold wrong. First, the ÖVP Carinthia was not in favour in 1994. This can be read. Secondly, Mr Stadler, in the course of his parliamentary function, the Clubobmann Wurmitzer has never approached the Freedom Party with such a request. I can tell you that we were already in Carinthia on 25 May. On 4 April 1991 the three-party consensus adopted a Party Promotion Act, which is completely transparent and in order. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e4296	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Barmüller. Mr deputies, you have a maximum speaking time of 18 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e4314	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Stadler is already getting tired of the escape he has had here since the public appearance of the painters around Rosenstingl. He got tired of that. Now he's just gonna hit the hooks, but he's not going any more. In fact, Mr Stadler, when he speaks of the fact that it was actually a panic reaction of the other four political groups to request an examination by the Court of Auditors of the parties and the parliamentary clubs in the House, which was already on 26 November. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution)......................................................................................................................................................... He himself says that, despite the fact that you have already become clear within the FPÖ in November 1997, what kind of action has been taken by Mr Rosenstingl until the end of May. At the time, however, the Freedom Party brought the Member of Parliament to Rosenstingl and asked him to check it once and to take care of what his loans look like at the Omikron, because there is nothing to do with them. At the same time, Mr Stadler stands out today and says: After all, we were on the 26th. May - six months later - those who requested an examination here in the house. Ladies and gentlemen! It is true, however, that the problem of Rosenstingl could only become so great because one has long tried to get it under the carpet within the Freedom Party. Mr Stadler cannot conceal that. That is why it is not a gesture of kindness, if its club now agrees with the request made by the other four political groups, but it is simply a command of the hour. Ladies and gentlemen! Nor does it help to say that there are internal and external accounts. For you know, if you only look into the 'Vienna newspaper' once, that the publication obligations of the political parties' balance sheets are really so inaccurate that there must, of course, be a second internal accounting, which contains a more detailed list of cost points. But if the liberals make only such an inaccurate accounting as it must ultimately be published in the 'Wiener Zeitung', I do not wonder that a case of Rosenstingl was possible. Thirdly, ladies and gentlemen, the Social Fund has been spoken here of by the Liberals, who are fed out of the surpluses resulting from incomes of more than 60 000 S net. If Mr Stadler says here that only severely handicapped people are provided with this money, I wonder why I had to read in "NEWS" that this would result in a robber or a Nicka compensation. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP and the Greens.]] I do not know what Mr Stadler calls his party colleagues. One thing is clear: In my opinion, social cases and the severely disabled were not, but in your opinion, already, because otherwise they should have gotten nothing out of the fund. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We do not have to talk about the reptile funds that exist at the country level for the liberal councils of the country, and from which we get some peacocks and other things, which are only operating expenditure. It is true that these applications are exclusively for the parliamentary clubs and for the political parties at the federal level. That is why, Mr Stadler, it is not, of course, true that your request goes further than that submitted by the other four political groups. It is true that, while your request states that the financial conduct of the political parties and their sub-organisations should be effectively controlled, it is only the political parties that can be controlled. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, it should be noted that this review of the Court of Auditors should be taken into account, once again, to highlight the relationship between political parties, electoral parties and parliamentary clubs and to consider how it looks that all these groups - legally independent groups - receive support. It would be worth thinking about it here, too. If, as a result of the occasion of Mr Rosenstingl, who is still a member of the Liberal Election Party, these requests are put forward, then it is because the public is not supposed to have the impression that all political groups are going as far as they are concerned or are still going to be. It is true, too, that Mr Rosenstingl was the club-cassier of the liberals at the time. Ladies and gentlemen! If Mr Stadler would like the parliamentary clubs - as he has requested - to be reviewed in the order of their mandate, then it is obvious that the aim of the liberals should be recognized, if possible before the next election, not to highlight what is still in need of clarification in this matter. We do not want this review to refer only to the parliamentary clubs, but, of course, the political party behind it must also be examined. This is the subject of the request, to which the Liberals will also give their consent. Ladies and gentlemen! We hope that it will be clear and clearly verifiable who has acted correctly in these areas and who has acted incorrectly. However, we also hope that, when the Court of Auditors reveals shortcomings, it will not come back to the way in which other shortcomings have been identified by the Court of Auditors and remain: that there is no response to them. The Liberals also hope that this review will ultimately give evidence of a reorientation in the legal field of party financing. Ladies and gentlemen! Again: The relationship between political parties, parliamentary clubs and constituencies must also be clarified and better developed legally than is now the case, so that such things as have happened to the liberals will no longer be possible in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e4385	Mr. Dr. Salzl asked for an actual correction. Mr deputies, start with the facts you want to correct. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e4407	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Barmüller has claimed that the Liberals of Burgenland - he has mentioned Rauter and Nicka - had received funds from the Social Fund, although they - in my memory he has formulated it so - would not be social cases. I am right to say that, on several occasions, Mr Barmüller, by means of a decision of the Court, I am pleased to have received these judgments, there has been no such social fund, from which flows of money have gone to the said gentlemen or to the Liberals of Burgenland. [[Abg. Aumayr: He already knows!]] [[Abg. Oils: What was it then?]] [[Abg. Wabl: Where were the funds?]] All these accusations are incorrect, they have been sued and these processes have also been won. Please take note of this at last!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e4468	I call Mr Wabl. 10 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e4486	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not know why the Members of the Liberals cannot even accept that what has happened in their party, in their organisation in recent weeks and months, is no reason to attack other parties here. Mr Stadler! I am right to say that in recent years, in recent months in this House, we have continuously attacked the government parties to see how intrusive a lot of money flows are. That's not a question at all. But, Mr Stadler, what a reason is there in your situation for this kind of discussion? [[Abg. May. Stadler: Why did you criticize the funds?]] I think it's so inconvenient what stylistics you're using here. They insult me because I laughed at your social fund, and then you use the disabled to accuse me of things that are critical of all. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You laugh at a social fund! This only gives children and needy money!]] Mr Stadler! If your club and party chairman, Haider, speaks of 2 million who have been distributed by a club that makes up more than 40 Members, I must say that I think it is simply ridiculous that these 2 million schillings have been calculated. You know, in our club there are individuals who have carried 2 million shillings to such pots in recent years alone. That is why I think it is so ridiculous if this party, which is represented here with more than 40 Members, is publicly arguing with a fund in which 2 million were schilling. I'll tell you: It will certainly have been one case or another in which you have helped socially disadvantaged people in a truly exemplary way - just like all the parties here do! But, Mr Stadler, please stop this kind of policy! It's just inapplicable. [[Congratulations on the Greens as well as on representatives of the SPÖ and the Liberal Forum.]] Mr Stadler! Look, if your party leader... [[Abg. May. Stadler: As long as you have to laugh about the socially needy, it stops!]] No, no, no, You know exactly what I wanted to say. That's something so bad, something so unpleasant! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Stadler! No one here in this House will laugh in connection with the socially in need, but everyone in this House will think it is ridiculous, Mr Stadler, when a club with more than 40 Members speaks of a large pot that makes up 2 million schilling, and if at the same time he postulates that the Members are so modest that they go around with a bag and only need 60 000 s net. Mr. Klubobmann Stadler! I'll tell you: If your party observer, Haider, is constantly with the claim that the Members in this House have approved 100 000 S, but those of his club only want 60 000 S, then this alone is such an unreasonable thing: [[Abg. May. Stadler: Maximum!]] On the one hand, it's always gross, on the other it's always net! [[Abg. May. Steindl: That's the naughtiness!]] First of all, the 60 000 S 120 000 S gross. If you also calculate the packages that you and others register, then it shows exactly the famous Chinese, Russian or Soviet model: little in public, but to make full use of all the demands of a politician! [[Abg. May. Steindl: That's it!]] I mean this chuzpe that Mr. Partyobmann Haider is on TV and says: Yes, what do you think a free politician should pay from his own pocket if he makes cup donations and supports musical chapels or fire brigades? - Of course there's a speen pot for that! That was the argument of the Social Democrats and the ÖVP for many years! You said: Although we have a high income nominally, we are obliged to support the individual groups there because of our activity in the districts, and we do so from our salary. It is therefore not fair to convert one into another what Members deserve. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's not true!]] Mr Stadler! They argue one too much, as was argued at the time by those who had been severely criticized in the public - in the "Kronen Zeitung" and by others - as privilege riding. You argue exactly the same now, and that is unreasonable! [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's nonsense!]] So excuse me. Mr. Landesrat Schmid travels around like a prince, distributes money to the fire brigades and musical chapels and pretends to be his own money. It's an official Spesenpot from which he takes the money! [[Abg. May. Stadler: You're talking nonsense!]] In the same way, all the SPÖ and ÖVP Members - I can guarantee this - have always argued. Mr Wurmitzer can sing a song of it to you. If the individual... Of course not! [[Abg. May. Stadler: You're talking nonsense!]] Even to me comes the comrade's covenant and asks: Please, Mr. Wabl, can't you donate something for our ball too? Or the fire brigade: We have a new extinguisher now, can't you add a thousand? What do you think the pot is paid for? From the Christian child or your social pot? - No, Mr Stadler! We should bring in transparency here and not play with false cards, as you always do! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the Greens and on representatives of the SPÖ, the ÖVP and the Liberal Forum.]] The greens are of course... [[Abg. May. Stadler: This has nothing to do with the obligation of a member of the state government! I don't know what you're comparing here! What do you think I'm paying my donations from? – Of course I also pay them from my own pocket!]] I would like to ask you, Mr Stadler: Turn off an advertisement in the "Kronen Zeitung" tomorrow and open your income and packages you register and talk about. Open it up! [[Abg. May. Stadler: They are revealed! For income tax, you can read this!]] I meant your package, not your salary! We know that, we can read it in the law paper. But not what you also cash for your travel activity, for your expenses and so on. Mr Stadler! That's not fair. This is a discussion that is not being conducted properly. I'll tell you: Stop playing this game! There are enough correct occasions from which the government parties can be fully attacked. I would like to remind you that we, the Greens, have made several requests to disclose the donations of the party. Mr Stadler, I very much remember that the SPÖ and the ÖVP voted against it, but the Liberals too voted against it, but I do not think I am wrong - the FPÖ has also voted against it. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Go, go, go!]] Mr Stadler! I can remember that you too voted against our requests. I'll pick this out of the minutes. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Just do that! I'm glad!]] Of course: Disclosure of party donations. I think it's under pressure. She once - it was the last time it was about Rosenstingl - also agreed. Mr Stadler! I'll tell you the following. [[Abg. May. Stadler: We have always called for disclosure!]] At the time, in connection with the salary debate, we talked about disclosure obligations in respect of income, assets, service, factory and consul contracts. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Yes!]] We have not done so to the fullest extent, but we have partly enforced it. We have, of course, also called for the disclosure of the party funds at that time. We didn't get through with that. [[Abg. May. Stadler: We don't have it either!]] But you, Mr Stadler, have not accepted these requests in recent years. [[Abg. May. Stadler: No, that's not true!]] It happened once, and that happened when you were already under the dramatic impression of your case of Rosenstingl. [[Abg. May. Stadler: We wanted it ourselves!]] Yes, Mr Stadler, when the party cash was already broken, you asked for a glass checkout! When the checkout in your party was already broken, you suddenly heard the call for glass party funds out loud. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's nonsense!]] [[Abg. Haller: They say the untruth!]] Mr Stadler! Another thing that's very strange... [[Abg. May. Trattner: Have you read the account report?]] I have heard more recently that you are calling for the pre-election of elections in different federal states. Do you know what I'd be interested in? [[Abg. May. Stadler: I'm excited!]] Why have you never been to the public in connection with the country election in Lower Austria and said: Ladies and gentlemen! The FPÖ has been a major, serious mistake. We have joined a team of FPÖ in Lower Austria, which is now heavily accused and has obviously made serious mistakes. This is actually electoral fraud; we demand that new elections be proclaimed in Lower Austria. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Why do it? You don't? Wouldn't that be a correct procedure of one party that has lost its top candidates who have lost their cashier in the other... [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is a nonsense!]] That's a nonsense? - I guess you knew exactly what is in your party funds before the election in Lower Austria! [[Congratulations with the Greens, the SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Leikam: It's detectable!]] But, of course, the party strategists, the great gentlemen in the background of Mr. Haider, stood up and said, please, before the Lower Austrian country election we can no longer go to the public, then we are delivered, then we will not lose a Porsche, but several Porsche! - [[Abg. Leikam: 16. November!]] [[Abg. May. Steindl: That's it!]] [[Abg. Leikam: Vulnerability!]] That was the problem. That is why Haider obviously could easily promise a Porsche - knowing that the election in Lower Austria cannot go as you thought it could. [[Abg. Leikam: To get rid of it faster and away!]] You can speak of luck that Mr Pröll has the absolute majority and, of course, no interest in new elections. It's a little too transparent for the Liberals: That they call for it is clear because they flew out. At the SPÖ there is coalition fidelity. But why does that not require you as a great, correct, state-bearing politician, Mr Stadler? - That would be good for you! [[Abg. May. Stadler: Who's a state bearer?]] Mr Haider has already given this position: After his excellent state fashion, he now has the cowboy pants on in Parliament and is looking for the lost money on the pirsch - on the great pastures, on the prairies in America and in Austria. But that would be fair political work, Mr Stadler! Step in front of the Lower Austrian public and say: We want new elections, because that was the best candidate's election fraud. [[Abg. May. Stadler: We'd win it, believe me, we'd win it!]] Well, try it! Try it; this is relatively simple. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Then the Greens also fly out of the country, as ÖVP branches!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We will, of course, vote in favour of this request. That was a unanimous request. I say to you from the liberals to the transparent maneuver with your request: Let us make a request that, in future, the party donations will also be subject to the control of the Court of Auditors. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Stand inside: entire financial event!]] Yeah, I know. But you know that the Court of Auditors cannot simply review private funds. [[Abg. May. Stadler: There is "total"! That's not the party alone! Party and whole birth, stand there!]] I think that public control in this case is much better! Because if the public can read exactly what the party donations... [[Abg. May. Stadler: Do you agree to our request? - I'll invite you! You agree!]] Mr Stadler! This windy request can only be accepted by a wind dog, I can't.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e5035	Mr Schwarzenberger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e5053	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! A functioning democracy needs political parties and clubs in the legislative bodies. The more qualified the employees and consultants are, the better then are the laws adopted. This is known to all responsible citizens, and these are also included. If we compare the costs of the Austrian Parliament with the corresponding costs in other countries - it can certainly be our neighbouring countries - we can see that we are a relatively economical Parliament. The expenditure is financed by the Club Finance Act and by contributions from the representatives of the respective clubs. We from the People's Party are in control of public funds to ensure that this tax money is spent sparingly and in accordance with the dedicated purpose. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Dr. Feurstein.]] We from the ÖVP Club finance our expenses by means of the Club Finance Act, which provides for base amounts and increase amounts according to the number of mandates, each with 10 Members increasing the amount. In addition, the mandate has been paid by the EIA Members - we are in favour of transparency! - 3.5% of gross domestic product. These 3.5 percent are taxed as advertising costs. These funds are sufficient to meet our financial obligations, including the necessary redundancies for our staff. But not all clubs are so economical. Clubs have found ways to get additional tax money. If the rumor that the FPÖ members are paying 12 per cent of the club's contribution and that they are taxed is true, then the taxpayer will also pay half of this club's contribution, these expenses. For other clubs, this is not the case because it is more economical to deal with the financial resources. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: This is a strange logic!]] In addition, the following will be co-imported: Da_te Mr Haider, as a clubman, claimed compensation for the clubman, but the work left to his executive clubman, MEP Stadler, but the Parliament only paid compensation to a clubman, apparently received amounts from the club financing. That is to say, it has been used to finance a second club in a club! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It means: "Whoever sits in the glass house should not throw stones!". [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: But you don't use it for yourself! This quote, however, does not apply to you!]] I would like to quote here a very impartial commentator, who is very closely following parliamentarianism, because it is precisely MP Stadler who is constantly talking about tax scandals of other parties. ==References====External links== ==References====External links== "As a result, a model example of how the FPÖ deals with the political state of affairs: Federal Partyobmann Jörg Haider threw Sunday evening in the TV broadcast 'For the cause' of the ÖVP, for three years not to pay taxes, and his Secretary General Peter Westenthaler, for weeks hardly able to express a normal word in normal tone, lamented: 'Sexorous, scandalous tax privileges!' And that's behind it" - I'm still quoting -: "In a very long tax procedure, which dates back to 1987, there was a high rate of suspension. The ÖVP paid the taxes, but refused to pay the high interest rates, the inadequacy of which, according to the technical expression, had even been recognized by the financial office. However, only the Ministry of Finance can decide on a repair, i.e. a forbearance of these unfair interest rates, and the ÖVP has been waiting for this decision since the end of 1995, so it took 29 months. ==References== In June 1998, the payment of this interest-rate requirement expired, which is why the ÖVP sought to extend the payment. That's all. If, however, there is a scandal behind history, then it is at least the fairness of the Ministry of Finance - and, of course, the handling of FPÖ with the facts." - There's nothing to add to it!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e5129	I call Mr Eder. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e5148	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen! Let me briefly deal with this matter in 5 minutes using an example; it is not easy to deal with this in 5 minutes, but I will try to get the matter to the point at least. I have repeatedly heard from many broadcasts, statements, press statements by the liberals that FPÖ wants to have revealed the reserves of housing companies in all possible variations. She said the reserves for the non-profit builders were too high et cetera. This then culminated in the proposal for a 20-point programme, called the "Treaty for Austria": We undertake to transfer the cooperative apartments to the property of the tenants. - When I think of "free living", I have to say: In this case, you can hardly transfer many cooperative apartments to the tenants! There were other press releases, for example on 30 June. On 1 August 1995 it was said: Disclosure of the total reserves of the housing cooperatives. - I'd like to turn this around and say, "Free living" should reveal the reserves once! Many reserves will not be found in "Free living". I prefer those enterprises - and not only non-profit companies - that have reserves and can also show them that have managed properly, as companies that have no reserves. But it goes on, because with the reserves alone it has not remained. There was then a urgent request about non-profit housing associations, in which the Freedom Party - I say this now really unemotional and do not want to weigh the same thing with the same thing - was claimed under point 8: In the Boards and Supervisory Boards of numerous housing associations there are fewer housing and rental law experts, but rather served politicians, retired trade unionists, officials et cetera. When I look at the supervisory boards of "Free living", I have to say: Ladies and gentlemen! There is no difference at all with the other cooperatives and societies. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: That's the wrong way!]] You can only say that honestly once. I am not saying that it was the right way, but I am telling you what it is like. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Krüger.]] - Mr Krüger, you too are coming right away, I have also prepared a few sentences for you. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: I'm already happy!]] But what is really interesting is a requirement under point 9 - because we have spoken so much about testing and control today. Under point 9, the FPÖ is addressed to the Minister: Becoming Do you support the demands of the liberals for the resolution of the revision association, and will you ensure that the revision association can no longer examine? - To this end: If it were not the revision association and the case of Rosenstingl, the construction company "Free Living" would continue to work in St. Pölten munter. Imagine that the Federal Minister would be in favour of the request of the liberals in 1995, and we all have decided here that the revision association will be dissolved. Then how would it have been discovered what's going on there? It wouldn't have been discovered! And if that's your louder test plan to test non-profit housing, I don't know what you mean by that. Or: At a current hour - and now I am dealing with you, Mr Krüger; it is nothing bad, but it is almost funny how quickly arguments that can be used against someone can be turned around at once and directed against one - you said literally at that time: The housing cooperatives are horten Bauland. ==References== ==References== In the current hour, Mr Krüger, meeting of the National Council: The housing cooperatives are horten Bauland. They are the best customers for banking institutions, yes they are more investment firms than housing cooperatives. - That's what your opinion was then. Now I return to "Free living" and I ask you: Wasn't "free living" one of the best customers of the banks? - First of all, but not now, because at once you can't repay what has been received in loans. And now it goes even further: None - none! - the non-profit housing companies in Austria have ever bought properties with bank loans. In principle, property has always been bought with own resources to save the interest on the future landlords and tenants. The first company that did this, namely buying land with bank loans, was "free living". That is why your statement is so wonderful. However, I come to the point where the circle closes with today's subject. I also again have a number of beautiful statements from your colleagues, for example Mr Trattner, who, in an interview in the "Morgenjournal", has found very honest and passionate that the foundation capital of currently 10 million schillings must be increased by 5.6 million schillings - probably this will not be enough - up to 10 million schillings. But this has not yet achieved economic efficiency, but it has only converted the minus capital into a zero sum game. In order to be able to operate, it is then necessary to do much more in this society. I do not know a party financing law, and I do not know a law on club financing, which provides that money from this title can be used as a financial injection for companies that have become marod. The conclusion that both Mr Schimanek and Mr Trattner drew from the whole is: If this society is re-established half-way, then it can be sold with a corresponding yield. However, this conclusion is not acceptable either. As a lawyer, Mr Krüger, you know very well what is foreseen in the WGG, namely that a non-profit company may only be resold as a parent capital and, again, only a joint profit. For we want - and we value it - that residential capital remains in this cycle, that one cannot enrich itself with it - in this context I do not mean to "enrich" negatively, nor can it generate additional income in order to be able to repay any miscarriage. The statement that is now being made by the Freedom Party of Lower Austria is therefore, I believe, all right, and the adventure housing is thus completed in the Freedom Party. Ladies and gentlemen! I have always said, since I am a resident of my group here in the House, that housing policy has never been an adventure for us.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e5201	The next speaker is Mr Dkfm. Holger Bauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e5220	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr Ederer! [[Call SPÖ and ÖVP:Eder!]] I would like to thank you for your factual and well-contained speech. However, I would like to take up your last sentence, Mr Ederer. [[Call the SPÖ:Eder!]] Mr Eder! If you say that the non-profit housing policy for the SPÖ was never an adventure, then - I take this from you, personally! - apply to you personally. The fact that the socialistally influenced or socialistally dominated, the SPÖ close to the non-profit housing policy, has ended up in an adventure, in a disaster, in a chronicle of scandal, is indisputable! [[Congratulations on the liberals!]] Mr Eder! I just mention one example - it will still be remembered -: WEB! The history of the FP-near housing cooperative in Lower Austria is personally unpleasant enough, not a question; I therefore do not want to bagatelle it at all. The only thing about the WEB, where your socialist state captain Radlegger was not only the chairman of the Supervisory Board, but also a personal friend of one of these bosses, was not a possible damage sum of a few million - I say again: I don't want to put anything in the bag. - It's billions. There is another difference, Mr Eder: We will try - because the damage may be "only" in the order of a few million - and will also be able to fix this matter in such a way that no potential tenant who has paid something there will be harmed. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That's another big difference! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eder.]] This is a big difference, because the funds paid there are perdu. The potential tenants who have put their savings there - I am coming to speak to you already, because I do not leave you that way, Mr Schwarzenberger! -, they lost everything. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwarzenberger]] [[Abg. Eder: Here you are!]] The sour savings are largely gone, because nothing is there, for lack of substance, Mr Eder! - That's the difference. That means: We act differently, first of all, when such a situation occurs, and we are striving quickly and consistently for compensation for damages. And second, we act differently, too: We will, if the matter is settled - I think, as I said, this is possible; and I have always been a follower of this view, because I was once chairman of the WBO Investigation Committee - to withdraw from the charitable housing activity. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: What was WBO?]] That's what I'm at ÖVP. I also don't really care about the savings of potential tenants, because you have a short memory. Interesting: To the red building scandal in the non-profit area, WEB, there is of course a black counterpart, the so-called WBO building scandal: Residential cooperative East. Granted, not in Salzburg, but in Burgenland and Lower Austria - just to mention keywords. [[Abg. Eder: Mr Colleague! Why did you have to have your scandal?]] With a speech time of 8 minutes, I can't go further down. Zimper, Ludwig, Titze, as they all called, all high-ranking ÖVP politicians, heads of state of the ÖVP, smokekeepers. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Smoke guard!]] And there's nothing good done! Hundreds of millions of funds perdu, proven by a court judgment, also through party donations - this is another difference. We ourselves have cheated on one or perhaps also two Gauners, they have taken money from our cash register; in your housing scandals it is the other way round: That's where your checkouts are stolen. That's the difference! You should also take note of this. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I don't really take your love of control today or yesterday and thus suddenly discovered. Not only do I not take these, you will not be taken seriously, because in the last decades - at least as long as I can remember - and I have been sitting here in this House for almost 20 years - you have never agreed to a request from us or from other opposition parties who have called for the investigation of party funding, donations, club funds and party funds. You've always blocked that! Make-up It is therefore your policy concern that has been expressed today. Nobody's taking this from you! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] Everyone knows what you're talking about! It's not about control, it's not about being decent, it's not about cleanliness, it's all about taking a supposed straw neck. They mean: Now we have the liberals "in Reindl" because in their ranks was a gauner who has cleared the FPÖ itself. [[Call the SPÖ:Rosenstingl!]] It's about having several dirt patches pick up on the FPÖ as much as possible. This is the only undertaking you have in mind. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP! I leave your water carriers from the "left forum" and the "red alternatives" aside. Please don't be unstopped. But I suppose you agree. There would have been a lot to do in this area in recent years. There would have been many occasions to review club funds, party financing and party funds. Again and again we have made applications by the Greens and the Liberal Forum - but nothing has happened! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lukesch.]] Do you know what you could've checked? - For example, the German army's arms purchases - a very concrete example - traditionally managed by the ÖVP and traditionally. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Have we checked!]] There was the case that your ÖVP spokesperson tried to persuade the SPÖ speaker - both of them no longer to persuade one politically at all, the other no longer in this function - to buy a specific aircraft model, because there are 70 million commissions for it and one could divide it as a party donation. If you want to investigate this, you've revealed your checkouts, have you made this clear? The prince-in-law of your Secretary-General, Mr Mensdorff-Pouilly, should act as a middleman. His wife is Secretary-General. I admit, there is no fissure, however: They have not only not checked or allowed a check, but have instead blocked everything. You could have done exactly the same with the SPÖ - in this case or in another case. As I've just seen one of Vienna's Members: There was once again Mr. Stadtrat Braun, who did the same at the vocational promotion institute. He not only ran his own bag, but there was also his own donation account "Parties". Parties - you can imagine which - were financed from the funds from the professional funding institution. Did you want to investigate that at the time? - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I know that because I was in high school at that time. We made a request to set up an investigation committee at the time - it was rejected! Today you suddenly want to see all this completely different. Today you have become Paul from Saul. Tomorrow you'll be Saul's again. I'm convinced of that. That's why no one's gonna lose you. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In the context of this completely unusual instrument of control for you, beware that this will not become a shot in your own knees, for: There's nothing to hide with us! [[Ironic cheerfulness at SPÖ, ÖVP, the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] - Excuse me. You, we're not stupid. We have just brought you to the idea of formulating such a request. We were the first to make a request on this subject, but we were addressed to the Constitutional Committee. Of course we were the first! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Do you think that we are not quite close and we ourselves make such a request if we did not know that there is nothing to hide? But as with your 33 million schillings - in order to turn me back to the SPÖ or some other bodies in the basement of your double accounting - this will only prove to be true. So be careful: Shoot your knees!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e5426	Mr Dr. Khol referred to an actual correction. Mr deputies, start with the facts you want to correct. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e5448	Mr President. High house! I am correcting the statements made by the managing director, Clubobmann Stadler, who, in connection with my work as Managing Director of the Political Academy, accused me of providing incorrect financing for a dubious business. [[Call to the liberals: And the refund!]] And the repayment. I am now reading the supplement to the 1995 Court of Auditors' report of activity, which also includes the corrected facts: "Consistency of the business operation of the GesmbH Political Academy is the operation of a hotel (in particular for seminar participants), the perception of the economic interests of the Political Academy as well as the production, publication and publishing of printed works of all kinds. From 1990 to 1994 the company received from the Political Academy (100% Owners) around 10.3 million S in grants for loss cover. The RH noted that the management or subsidisation of a hotel business is not one of the legally defined promotion activities. He recommended that in the area of hotel operations, performance should be calculated and carried out in a balanced manner. The Political Academy agreed to this. After difficulties of start-up, a business recovery has been carried out in recent years. The conduct of 1995 has already been balanced." [[Abg. Aumayr: The refund!]] I would add that I gave the management of the Political Academy in 1992 and therefore have no responsibility for parts of these things, which were also assessed by the Court of Auditors as described.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e5519	Mr Oellinger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. There are 7 minutes of remaining speaking time available to your group. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e5548	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In part, this debate is really nice and amusing, but it does not correspond to what one would expect of it. Mr Bauer! If you say that you are not stupid, and if you believe that we believe this, I must also give you wrong, because finally the following statement comes from a member of your party, Mr Gratzer from Lower Austria, who said: I was so stupid! - It was not a representative of another party, Mr Bauer. More than what you have mentioned here - the cases of housing scandals that have occurred in recent decades - I would have been interested in what you say about the actual Causa, what you say about the opinions that have been put on the table in today's debate - but you have kept silent. You repeat the game of recent years once again: Whenever an accusation is addressed to you, replicate in the way that you return ten proven or unproven accusations to the other parties. I would still be interested in the following: How high are the party finances of the liberals actually? - We have also heard various interpretations today: Summaries from 90 million to 370 million schilling. In fact, I would have been interested to see why, in the past, the liberals have always voted against requests to disclose the incomes and assets of parliamentarians. I would still be very interested in what is now possible with these social funds, which are no longer "social funds", but only more "social pots" - and then the story is obviously true - is actually going on. To this end, you have still refused any explanation! Is it really only 2 million, Mr Salzl, who have been paid out of these social wells? Has Mr Schweitzer and other Members actually received money from these social wells? - You didn't comment on it. It doesn't matter to me - and the Austrians alike - whether that's "funds" or "pot". However, I am interested in what it is about these social pots of the Freedom Party. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I believe that the Austrians have a right, just as we Members of the House, to know this from you. [[Abg. Dr. Salzl: I have to correct you again!]] These are allegations that have been in the room for years and that you have never taken a position on. I would also be interested in what is happening with the advertising company of Mr Rumpold. If one is allowed to believe the newspapers, the liberal parliament club has paid relatively high bills to the company Rumpold. I'd be interested. This is in the newspapers, Mr Trattner, not even, but several times. I suppose it won't happen by chance. Mr Trattner, you are shaking your head, but you have not yet been able to imagine or imagine the sum of what was clearly speculated in loans in the Lower Austrian State Party a few weeks ago. [[Abg. May. Trattner: That's a fool what you're saying!]] Nevertheless, I would be interested in what really is going on with the liberals. Have you or have the liberal club only now heard of this matter or does it know about the errors since November? What is it really about these stories that you have been informed about it since November and are now pretending to be all new to you and as if you had never heard of it? What about it, Mr Bauer? Then don't pretend the liberals are the innocent paralysm. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Trattner: Mr Oellinger, you have not understood it!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That's nothing new!]] I would be interested if there were some other such incidents. I can tell you one thing, ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party: The claim that you are the party of small, diligent, instructive, honest and clean people, and that you yourself are as clean as these little people, you have long lost! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Nothing could document it better than this beautiful poster from the 1994 National Council election campaign "!!! A CALL FOR TWO!!!", star lawyer Dr. Harald Ofner and the member of parliament Peter Rosenstingl - two professionals as experienced and serious candidates. [[The speaker shows a poster]] Just honest, just FPÖ. [[Abg. Aumayr: Simply virtuous!]] At least 50 percent of these statements are wrong, Mr. Ofner.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e5673	Mr. Dr. Salzl has asked for an actual correction. Please begin with the claim that you are correcting. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e5697	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Oellinger said that I would not have given an opinion on what the Social Fund or the Social Fund is doing, Mr Deputies, let me speak out, I should like to say both. You both said: Social funds, or if you say "social pot", then it is true again, you have said - it has happened and whether free Members have received money from it. [[Abg. Wabl: Do you know this detector? He really found out about the FPÖ!]] - Mr. Wabl! Listen too! It will be good for you to hear the truth about it. [[Abg. Wabl: The "Prawda" speaks to me!]] I'm actually correcting: I have given my opinion on this, and I have said that neither a social fund nor a social pot of money has flowed to the Members. [[Abg. Oils: From another pot!]] This has been determined by both the Financial Office and independent courts. Rather, the money of "Austrian Cancer Aid", the "Child Cancer Aid", the Disability Funding Association, "Neighbor in Need", the Protestant Aid Agency, and many of the individuals in need were dedicated. And the rest of this money, 481,000 S - this sum was the remaining amount - was handed over to the Austrian Red Cross. [[Deputies Dr. Petrovic and Oillinger: How much?]] You should take an example of this and praise it, not criticize it!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e5768	Mr Otmar Brix. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e5787	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The only reason why we are discussing today's request from the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure is the Austrian Freedom Party, which, with its fraud and financial scandal, is still very deep in this unexplained swamp. Nor is it possible to compare the persons mentioned by Mr Bauer as a comparison, because none of yours The latter has speculated with public funds as well as your officials and thus mistrusted Austrian taxpayers' taxpayers' money! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! An outrage like that caused by your officials has never been in this country so far. [[Abg. Dfkm. Holger Bauer: Go, stop!]] All your distraction maneuvers that you have tried to draw other parties into your swamp by suddenly putting the Russian mafia into play or suspecting a hearing affair in this Parliament, in which waving through the lines crawls somewhere, should only distract from your fraud scandal that you and your officials have caused. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with representatives of the Freeman]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It is particularly interesting - I would like to return to the meeting of the Court of Auditors last week - that the liberals have made the request that the examination should be carried out according to the number of mandates and that, as I believe in the scandal, this examination should be postponed by the Court of Auditors for so long that it can probably become active only - according to your proposal, Mr Stadler. - when the election to the National Council is over. You want to play the same game you have already played in Lower Austria. There, in March, you turned your scandal under the carpet, although, as newspapers already claim, you knew of it, only so that you can propose something different to the voters in Lower Austria than actually corresponds to the truth. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is your method and also the reason why you want to have these tests so late and have determined the order of examination according to the number of mandates. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! At the meeting of the Committee on Auditors, it was discussed that we do not want this to happen. The democratic parties of this House have nothing to hide and want to see those financial resources which are publicly allocated, both in the clubs and in the parties, as the Austrian people have the right to know what is happening with their tax money. It has to be heard that these democratic parties manage public money properly and also spend it for the public. Mein Ladies and gentlemen! If you are going to agree to our request today, as your Clubobmann Stadler has already promised, there is only one reason for this: They will simply not be able to exclude themselves due to the massive pressure of the other four parties and must accept this request. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: But go!]] What would be worse for you than if you had to admit that you are still trying to prevent your financial funds from being audited?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. May. Trattner: By contrast, we look forward to this exam!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Please agree and confess that in your party some Schindluder have driven. [[Call to the liberals:Yes, eh!]] We will reveal this with you, and we will return to cleanliness and discover what has been hidden so far! [[Abg. May. Trattner: Where is your Social Fund?]] Your cover-up has not yet been fully revealed, so we are also submitting this request.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e5895	Mr Krüger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Mr deputies, you have a speaking time of 7 minutes at your disposal. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e5914	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! Mr Brix! Please don't be angry with me, but I think you're sitting in the wrong event when you ring your hands and appeal to us to agree to the request of the other four parties. At the Committee meeting, we have declared that we will be voting in favour. This is also to be read in the Committee's report. So at least read the Committee's reports before you age in this matter and ask us to give our assent. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we will agree. We have nothing to hide. [[Abg. Brix: But later you want her!]] [[Abg. Wabl: The Rosenstingl has revealed everything!]] We want this investigation. And this investigation will be very, very unpleasant for you, I can guarantee you now. Ladies and gentlemen! I have full understanding of the fact that all the parties - and I do not take exception - are concerned about what it looks like in the cash registers and the conduct of the other parties. I don't think that's a bad thing, that's obvious. I must say honestly to you that I am not necessarily a follower of mutual calculation, and I also say quite frankly that the way in Lower Austria, which some Lower Austrian FPÖ officials have taken, was wrong, namely to go to the residential and cooperative areas and to operate there economically. That's the decisive thing. What does one do when one sees that one is in the dead end that one has taken a wrong course? - You draw consequences from it. Ladies and gentlemen! We will draw these consequences. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But, of course, we also demand that you take the necessary consequences. Since there is no lip recognition, neither does Mr Eder, who says that this is the wrong way to establish a cooperative and act there. Where, in the case of red and black, are the decisions of the Federal Party or of the Club that the parties have finally withdrawn from the non-profit cooperative area? All of this is masked, insistence decisions are taken, and one wants to continue. That's not right! They say that there is the blue cooperative in Lower Austria, of which I say it was a mistake to have founded them. But fact is, to this day no tenant has even lost a schilling. Otherwise, ladies and gentlemen, it is in the red-black area. We have to be clear about this. Mr Kostelka! You laugh, but I suppose the names of companies like Gesiba and so on tell you nothing at all. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Because it's wrong, and you as a lawyer know that!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Gesiba!]] There, nonprofit money is ensnared in the desert sand - it belongs to a party in your sphere of influence. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Kostelka.]] Or the WEB has already been addressed if I can turn to the black half of the empire. President Zyla had the issue in his hands there. Thousands of investors, thousands of homeowners were damaged, they fell down for their money. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of red and black! You know exactly that it was your cooperatives, among other things, who led the legislator to create a building contract law so that tenants and home buyers would not be harmed again. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, the Greens have not been able to resist the temptation to take an unreflected look at the liberals. I say one to you, Mr Wabl and Mr Oellinger... [[Abg. Oillinger holds an advertising poster against the speaker.]] Thank you for giving me this poster now, but you don't need to keep me a poster, but I just need to read the newspaper yesterday. What's the point? Mrs Renkin - which should be said to you - has just been sentenced for negligent Krida. I don't need to go back that far, your officer was sentenced yesterday or yesterday for negligent Krida. Mr President, I should like to thank Do you believe that you are the owner of morality - and this will still be the case with the urgent one - that it is right that your ORF curator named Pius Strobl as ORF curator makes business with his own companies at the expense of the hostess and television consumers of Austria? Or, Mr Oellinger - perhaps you include this in your actual correction - do you live in the idea of trusting that the Greens are actually using the party funds which they legitimately owe to them? Faith You really do? - All right, you think so. [[Abg. Wabl: Of course!]] Do you think it is in the interests of the taxpayer to hand over funds to the Green Club, the Green State Party of Upper Austria, and that the Green Land Party in Upper Austria then provides offices in which gangs can order instructions for bombs? Do you believe that this is a dedicated deal with taxpayers' money? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In all this discussion, we should not ignore the fact that not only is the Causa Rosenstingl occasion for these applications - that is not a question at all - but also the Causa, which has taken place in the club of the Socialist Party in Parliament, namely the 33 million schilling coup. Mr Kostelka! I must attest to one thing, namely poor crisis management. But don't be too early! The fact that a prosecutor files an advertisement does not yet mean that everything has been done, because you as a lawyer know exactly that this procedure can be resumed at any time. I am already excited when Mr President-in-Office of the Council and his colleagues will examine the extent to which your justifications will be sufficient. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: I want your concerns!]] I understand your concerns, because first of all, Mr Kostelka, you say that the members of the SPÖ have ordered advertising at the SPÖ, but then you have come to it, which is not conclusive, because that has been yours. Your tax advisor said you should have paid sales tax for this, so is nothing with this argument. And that's why you've been thinking about something else, now it's a donation. Mr Kostelka! Apart from any criminal responsibility - the presumption of innocence applies to all, no question at all -: Do you think it is in the interests of the taxpayer to finance a club that then hands over 33 million schilling to the SPÖ party organization? Do you believe this? - Then I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e6048	Mr Oellinger asked for an actual correction. Ladies and gentlemen, let me begin with the claim that you want to address your corrective position. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e6069	Mr President. Mr Krüger has made several claims. I want to correct one of them and focus on them. Mr Krüger! They claimed that a Green official, Mrs Renkin, had been sentenced for fraud or fraudulent war. - This claim is wrong. There is no functionary called Renkin, and there is also no functionary called Renkin. [[Abg. Young: But a functional!]] I'm actually putting it right: Mr Renkin was a member of the Green Party several years ago and then went into the economy, since then he has not held a position with the Greens, nor is I - as far as I am informed - a member of the Greens. That's the fact.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e6136	Mr Gusenbauer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e6165	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Krüger! I'm not happy. For if a Member of the House is sought after, he is flogged, then this does not give a good light to the whole of the House, and the remaining 182 Members enter into a debate which they did not deserve - and, of course, the matter of the former or still Members of the European Parliament, Rosenstingl, does not shed a good light on the whole FPÖ. And there will also be in the FPÖ some or many who will get to the train in this context without guilt. But what can be tested is: How many are indebted to the train in this context? Mr Stadler! You have told several Members today that they should learn something in Parliament. Learning also sometimes does good to you - to all those sitting here in Parliament, daily. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Daily!]] What did you learn from the matter? Point 1: They have most likely learned - I hope at least - that a party without democratic processes and control agencies will lead - a lot of things about control has been talked about today - is obviously problematic. Because if you said in the beginning, Rosenstingl made private Petite, then after a short time turned out, obviously party funds were also involved. If it was said in the beginning that it was only Rosenstingl, it turned out after a short time, it was also the state party owner involved. We don't know how many more were involved. But one thing is clear: it is obvious that the overall situation in Lower Austria and in the Lower Austrian Party is not transparent, not democratically controlled, otherwise it would not be possible for such a large number of officials to be involved in this affair, Mr Stadler! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] That's obviously the reason why you're coming to Lower Austria. In this context, FPÖ is taking part in the final "Keule", Stadler, the Savonarola of the FPÖ, going to Lower Austria to carry out the reconstruction of the broken structures there. What we have learned today, Mr Stadler, is how to take public statements from FPÖ seriously. I listened exactly. Once again, there is the so-called 60 000-S-net-relation limit - no one should have any more. In the meantime, we have learned that this applies only to public income. So all those who have in addition to public functions private income that go beyond 60,000 S are not taken into account. - Good. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That has never been claimed!]] Secondly, we have heard today too, there are obviously also some who have income from public incomes which are above 60 000 S, and who, like Mr Schimanek, go here and say: I am sorry, with 60 000 s, a politician can't get through with all these issues! For me, the question is: If we extract from your clubs all those who, due to private income, are netting more than 60 000 S, if you subtract all those who like Schimanek and others admit that they have more than 60 000 S, who actually remains, who only has these 60 000 S net? [[Abg. Wabl: Just the shark!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Is this colleague Bauer? Is the colleague Partik-Pablé? How many are there in the entire range of Porsche riders who actually get over the rounds with 60,000 S? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Stadler! In the sense of transparency, there is a simple method: Go here and publish which public mandates of the FPÖ, like many thousand schillings, will transfer over 60 000 S per month to your funds, which is why the total revenue from this fund is and where this money goes. The Austrian public is still waiting for this list, for obviously the number of those who pay is extremely small, and those who are the "last fools" - under quotation marks - who do some numbers, obviously already poison themselves, that, surrounded by Porsche drivers, another one comes to the plan every day and says: The 60 000 S do not apply to me! Control and - how do you say? - publicly comprehensible conduct of the FPÖ would be required in this context.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e6250	Mr Mag. Stadler has requested an actual correction. Mr President, you know the Rules of Procedure. Start with the claim you want to correct. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e6271	Mr President. My previous speaker said that the public is still waiting for the report on the use of the 60 000 pp. to be published on the list, yes. [[Abg. Arbitrators: On the list, who pays!]] First of all, all incomes, especially those of our Members, are publicly known and also available in a list. This list shows that the very least part of the Members of my parliamentary club have at all public incomes over 60 000 S. Secondly, The use of these funds, which Mr Gusenbauer has also mentioned, has been notaryly confirmed and has already been announced to the public in the form of two reports, with the reference to social support, all of which were socially and socially in need, in particular with the abbreviation of their family names.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e6319	Mr Oellinger has now spoken on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Mr President, this is your second speech. You have one more speaking time of one minute at your disposal. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e6338	Mr President. I have only two brief questions, but first of all I have one more observation. It is not as simple as you do with Mr Rosenstingl's laying down. [[Abg. May. Stadler: He's gone himself!]] Mr Rosenstingl is still a member of the Freedom Election Party. You can't change that. That's it! - Point one. And now the question: Mr Stadler! I would be interested to see why Mr Haider, who, in public statements, repeatedly emphasizes that the leadership of the club of the liberals is in your best hands - I have long felt sorry for you, because I think, Madame Stadler is in fact free of charge for the club - a gage as a clubman of the liberals, although he is proven - this is also evident in his absence - the business of this club is not leading but the leadership of the club in your hands? [[Call the liberals: Where is Mrs Petrovic? Where's Mrs Petrovic?]] Why don't you take a special fee? My last question: I would be interested in how many Members of the Liberals voted according to the new pension system and the old pension system.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e6383	Mr Dr. Lukesch has now spoken. Mr deputies, you have a 14-minute speaking time at your disposal. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e6401	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! I am absolutely convinced that the public will take note of this discussion today, as it is led by the FPÖ, with great astonishment. They do not distance themselves from the problems you seem to have in your ranks, but As a strategy, they use counter-attack, accounting against other things and throwing nebula candles to distract them from their own problems. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] You, perhaps with the exception of Mr Krüger, he has already noticed this - do not notice what you are doing with it. In reality, you take Rostingl, Dinhopel, Gratzer and so on back into your ranks and defend their behavior, instead of agreeing with us that it is necessary to reveal and clarify what happened in Lower Austria and possibly here in the Hohe Haus with the FPÖ Klubkase. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haller.]] Mrs. Colleague! I can tell you the following: One of my first speeches in this House in 1990 was devoted to a Court of Auditors report when the Court of Auditors - it has already come up today - examined the financial conduct of the educational structures of the various political parties. He has come up with detailed comments on behaviour in the liberal education work. I just want to show you how easy it is to calculate each other. The Freedom Education Agency took over travel costs from FPÖ party officials to the Liberal International, although the FPÖ was no longer a member of the Liberal International at the time and afterwards and even now. It was a misuse of club money that went down here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] That's the way it is, Mr Stadler. That may have been before your time, but, excuse me, from my profession, I have an incredibly long memory, and such things I just remember. Another small point from it: The Court of Auditors wrote in its then report: Since December 1988, the director of the board of trustees of the Freedom Education Foundation was also one of the FPÖ's Secretary Generals. However, its annual salary in 1989 and the expenditure for the (luxuriant) passenger car paid exclusively for the freedom of education. - But it was of course active for the FPÖ and not for the freedom of education. Who was that? That was colleague Reichhold, right, the "replace-grasser" you sent to Carinthia. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] In the 1995 Court of Auditors report, the freedom of education work is re-established in the Court of Auditors. Again, generous travel expenses are financed for party officials, but they have nothing to do with the actual activity of political education through the liberal educational work. I tell you one thing, Mr Stadler: They are repeaters in terms of the use or abuse, i.e. the abuse of club money! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Why don't you confess that? I'm telling you, the people up there, the many young people who listen to us today want this. [[Abg. Aumayr: Where are the young people?]] Why not admit that some of your ranks have gone a way that the rest of the team may not share? - That would be your task today. Finally, before the public a confession that a wrong path has been taken, and, as it corresponds to my Christian understanding, penance to end this wrong path. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You say that you have already agreed to the four-party request for examination of the club fees in committee. I can tell you that after it was discovered that your request had initially been directed to the government which is not responsible for it to develop a club financing, party financing auditing law. How long does such a thing take? - Certainly a good time. And then - excuse me the evil expression - the cheap shame that this examination should be carried out according to the size of the fractions. You have been surprised by the request of the four other parties, and you have no choice but to agree. We forced you to do so, otherwise you would have lost your face even more. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I'll tell you something. The four parties' request, as it stands today, for the immediate review of the conduct of the National Council Clubs, is also intended to protect the other parties from being dragged into your FPÖ scandal. The aim is to prevent the voters from getting the impression in the public, for example, that all is Gauner. We're not a no-go! We use our club funds neatly and lawfully. We want to prove this with the exam. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr Stadler, I am surprised that you did not come to this idea right away, given the fact that, for years now, Mr Rosenstingl has been the club member of the liberal parliamentary club here in the house. He's been there for years. Why Demand Are you not, on your own, an immediate examination of club finances from an objective body, just as the Court of Auditors is, but are trying to take things out? There is a danger today that the FPÖ will be in the process of destroying the confidence of citizens and voters in the political system, which is irony! - a scandal raised from their own ranks. So, with distractions, delay et cetera, you want to get over the rounds. We will not let you out of this purgatory - hopefully that is also seen by you - purgatory. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] You have set up and announced the "glass party" as an answer to various attacks you are facing today. It has already been spoken here by Schimanek State Council in Lower Austria and you, Mr Stadler. Although you have never asked yourself, what am I saying to you, how an animal works for the goals of the Freedom Party, whether it is correct to receive a special fee for this activity from club money? This question should actually be raised, in particular because of the fact that your lawyers and lawyers also sit in your ranks. We want to know this through the highest control body in this Republic, through the highest control body in Parliament, by the Court of Auditors. I am going, as I believe, to conform to the opinion of many citizens in this country, if I say - without prejudicing the Court of Auditors - that the Court of Auditors should start to examine properly where it appears to be most necessary - and that is the case with the FPÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e6491	There is no more word message. The debate is closed. A conclusion of the report was not required. I ask you to take the seats. We shall now vote separately on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall vote on the request made by the Court of Auditors in 1265 to order the Court of Auditors to carry out the following examinations: 1. The conduct of the parliamentary clubs currently represented in the National Council from 1st. In January 1995 as regards the dedicated use of those public funds transferred to them under the Club Finance Act, as well as 2. the conduct of the political parties currently represented in the National Council from 1 January 1995 onwards. January 1995 as regards the appropriate use of public funds transferred to them in accordance with the Party's law. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. - That's unanimous. This request has been adopted unanimously. We are now voting on the request of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 1266. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a corresponding sign. - This information was also taken unanimously. This report was adopted unanimously. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: The better is the enemy of good!]] The agenda is exhausted. As already announced, I am now interrupting the meeting by 3.30 p.m.; the urgent request put forward will be called at 3.30 p.m. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e6535	High house! I'll start the interrupted session again. Request for urgent procedure of Deputies Mag. Dr. Heide Schmidt, Dr. Volker Kier and comrades to the Federal Chancellor on overdue ORF reform (4522/J)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e6572	We are now entering the urgent debate on the written question 4522/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e6738	I give the floor to Mrs. Dr. Schmidt as the questioner for the reasons for the question referred for a preliminary ruling pursuant to § 93 para. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e6756	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, as far as possible! I am surprised that there is no interest in a debate on the ORF here, as one can see in the empty ranks. [[Abg. Arbitrator: It's symptomatic: It's quality, but no reach!]] I think it is symptomatic to think that this will be done in the party headquarters anyway, so what is to be done in Parliament as if it were actually worth a discussion, because what Mr Schüssel and Mr Klima or others make up is then, in the end, the line that we are dealing with. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: Sorry, too!]] Therefore, it is obviously perceived as a lost time to deal with it a little objectively. - We from the Liberal Forum try anyway. I believe that yesterday's day at the Küniglberg revealed - and it was more clearly not possible to show - that most curators obviously were not about a media policy but about a party policy decision in the election of a new general intern. It is a shame that Mr Klubobmann Khol is not here now, because I would like to say something to him, with which I would like to look at him. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That would not impress him very much!]] That's right, though. - Dr. Khol made this very clear in an APA interview on Christmas, saying: The ÖVP is considering whether it is setting up its own candidate - literally: "a candidate of its own" - for the election as the general intern of the ORF! The Christmas time, however, is one in which one might then escape as many things as I would like to say. That was also the case with Partyobmann Schüssel when he asked what he expected from next year for the ÖVP, said that two elections would win the ÖVP, namely the election in Lower Austria and the Federal President's election. The fact that the candidate then appeared as a seemingly independent candidate is something else. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kukacka.]] Look, you're gonna admit it at least by saying: It was true, the ÖVP won! - But that's the point! If you at least reveal it, I think it is a step towards honesty, however, to the honesty of an evil system, and therefore you do not need to be proud of this honesty. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] It is true, in any case, that not only the candidates will be taken up, but that the motivation in advance is one of the party headquarters. But not only did Mr. Khol say this for Christmas, but she also confirmed this by Mrs. Stenzel, Vice-President of the Council of Europe, then in May at the days of the journalists in Dürnstein, saying quite openly: We, the ÖVP, will try to bring about a turn with the FPÖ! This means that this ORF is obviously a preliminary organisation of the parties, that the top position, namely the position of the general intern of the ORF, is a political post open to all party political negotiations, according to the motto: If I give it to you, give it to me! And if we choose it, I have to get something else for it! This shame in the disclosure of Party policy considerations, which have nothing to do with media policy, is characteristic of a system that needs to be changed. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] It is no wonder, therefore, that there are no serious candidates from outside the house, let alone international media professionals who make themselves available to lead the largest and most important media institution in Austria. They are apparently not ready - and that can only speak for the non-existent candidates - to play this game. There is therefore nothing else but what has just happened, namely that there are only internal applications, and there are qualified persons who so to speak see this function as a conclusion of their careers. Whether it is Mr. Weis or Mr. Radel, one strives, as it were, at the end of an internal career, where one is accustomed to dealing with these rules of the game, to this position, as the last coronation, where one can clearly bring these rules to perfection at the top. It is obvious that this can only be transitional or emergency solutions. The need for reform in the ORF is not an oppositional point of view, but this fact is now not uncommon. This was the last time in the Coalition Convention of 11. ==References== [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You missed me?]] "Missing" is said too much. I would have liked to remind you of your own quotations from the Christmas APA interview, where you have revealed your opinion in the form that you have said: It is our candidate that we will set up for the General Intent of the ORF! You are not always open in this form as you were at Christmas. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: What's bad about it?]] I find that impeccable! Look, I wanted to challenge that! That's the good thing! They show you that if you politicalize the media of this country, if you take them in for your political interests, and then also say: What's bad about it, we have the majority?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: If we have the best, then what is it?]] It is already strange that it is by chance an ÖVP candidate who is then seen by you as the best that it is by chance someone who is then considered by another party, not by the individual curators, but by the party headquarters, by the party officials for the most appropriate. They say: What's bad about it? This is obviously a question of majority relations here in the House. It is obvious that there is a need for reform in the ORF. In this context, I can give you your own coalition agreement of 11 May. In March 1996, he was called to mind. The following is written in it: "In order to be able to lead the ORF economically even in the future under the ever-increasing competitive situation, the Broadcasting Act should be amended and the legal form of the ORF converted into an AG, but with respect to the public service contract." That is to say, the announcement that an ORF reform is not only necessary, but that coalition government has undertaken one, is recorded in writing. Interestingly, Mr Khol is still on 9. In April 1998 - which seems to be already a certain loss of reality - the choice of the next ORF general intent can already take place in June on the basis of the Reformed Broadcasting Act. It is beautiful to be optimistic, but if this optimism is so marked by loss of reality, it has a more than pronounced side of shadow. Regardless of the fact that over two years ago this coalition has promised this country to submit an ORF reform in order to have it decided in this Parliament - I have given you the right to do so. - the debate on the legal form of the AG has been held in a way that also speaks its own language. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] One has not talked about what it means to bring such a media company into a profit-oriented legal form, one has not thought about what that means for the quality of the company, at least one has not made it public that one has thought about it, and therefore I do not believe it, not only not me, but also, and especially, the Austrians concerned. [[Abg. Arbitrators: No, no!]] This is not your playing field alone, but it is an undertaking for this country. It has also not been discussed whether such a legal form will not conflict with EU rules, namely EU competition rules on the basis of the mixed form of financing: on the one hand, fees, on the other hand revenue from advertising, but on the other hand, it has been considered how to construct this AG in order to safeguard the party's political influence again. The ÖVP has said that the shares between the federal government and the countries should be divided, which means the delivery mode - this is the wonderful thing in this board of trustees - that everything is politically so beautiful in the hands of the SPÖ, for which the SPÖ has said no. She has my full understanding of this. The SPÖ has, in turn, proposed that Bank Austria... [[Abg. Arbitrators: No, it has not made them.]] Mr. Häupl has this... [[Abg. Arbitrators: No, no! That's where you're wrong!]] Mr Häupl's misunderstanding would not be the first time. [[Abg. Arbitrators: No, no, no! Three times no!]] I have seen you on the list of speakers, you can then correct it. In any case, then - and for that the ÖVP in turn has my understanding - the ÖVP has said no. That means it was always about the outer coat: How can we best establish, safeguard and perceive our spheres of influence in the legal form? But no one has talked about the task definition of this company. That's the point! If you are talking about the definition of tasks covered by the current broadcasting law, this is a very selective perception. This is not enough, because then it can also happen that those two candidates, who are now in concrete terms, namely puzzle and wise, present different concepts, in the form of different concepts in the form that Radel says: More public-law!, but not able to answer the questions of financing, and that wise says: Market management to defend at all costs, but not to say what price he is really willing to pay. These different concepts can only be achieved if there is no legislative requirement, if there is no requirement in the direction with which to carry out the task of this company. This inconsistency of the Federal Government leads to the fact that, as I said earlier, no qualified candidates can be found from outside. But it leads to something else - and that's the danger; I don't know why you don't take it seriously, I find that really remarkable, you just want to dry up your political creatures and think that the story is done with it - in order to erode responsibility. The ÖVP is always very happy to carry out the concept of responsibility in the mouth, but it does nothing to do with it. It's the opposite! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] It is an outrage of the responsibility of the future general intern, if one does not give any regulations, because at the same time one can give him the excuse, because then, if something does not work, he can say with fug and law: I couldn't do better, because I didn't get any regulations! It is not only that the new general intern can appeal to the fact that there is no radio reform, but that was also the reason for the current general indegent not to re-elect. You only need to remember his words - we have listed the quotations in our urgent request - with which he has reasoned why he does not make a re-election, because this Federal Government has not realized the things it has promised, because the conception is not clear because there are no requirements and because, in such a situation, the reasonable leadership of this company is not responsible. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Because he gets paid three times at the RTL!]] That's the point! And that's what you're responsible for! However, we have a German chancellor, who bears the main responsibility for this, namely a German chancellor, who is still calling himself a cultural chancellor, and therefore also for this reason would have to perceive the facet of the cultural mission, which he neglects not only on this question but also on all other issues. What But they do so is to undermine, on the one hand, the responsibility of the future general intern, but also to endanger the company's current stock, because the competition that the ORF receives is no longer preventable. In the radio sector it is already there, on the television sector it is at the doorstep, and therefore I must say: It is a revelation that, if you have not done anything for the reform, you were one of the most important things: to keep the previous voting mode, because this mode of voting is the greatest guarantee for you that you can secure your political influence, because if you need a two-thirds majority at the first election, it is of course easy to refer to a spelling error in our urgent request: on the first page in line nine, where it is called "personal concessions", it is called "personal concessions", a write error which I would like to correct - to achieve concessions - I do not want to say: to blackmail - according to the motto: If anyone wants to be, then we'll see what price he's willing to pay. If you look at the theoretical task of this ORF and look at the current studies that have been carried out in recent times, you have to say: They are not necessarily something that gives rise to joy! This medium is an information, education and entertainment medium. I wonder, How does this medium deal with its cultural assignment? I also wonder: How can it happen that - and now I am looking at a facet which we have also tailored to in our urgent question - the film industry, which in other areas is part of those growth sectors which are increasingly on the rise, has exactly the opposite trend in Austria, and also because, among other things, this medium, which should make a very substantial contribution and would be obliged to do so under the EU directives, does not make it? Our own productions are going downhill in the number of contracts, as is the case in other countries. No statement of this by the responsible art chancellor! There is no mention of this by the applying general interns! No real statement by the current general intern! Everyone's just watching. Nobody cares. If a study, which had to be assessed whether the cultural order had been properly carried out so far, comes to the conclusion that the management had to consider something, and if there is again no reference to what it should consider, in which direction it should go, then I have to say: This is a shortcoming that leaves a vacuum, and that is irresponsible! This is also irresponsible because it is not only about the identity of the ORF, but also because it is about the Austrian identity in the ORF. That is why, Mr State Secretary, we have put a urgent question. The questions have actually been asked to the Federal Chancellor, but the Chancellor has never dealt with cultural policy in this House, except perhaps in a questionable hour, at least he has never been in a Committee on Culture. He mainly uses to remind himself of his cultural competence at festival openings, but never else. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: At football matches!]] Even in football matches, but this is more a matter of sports competence, I would not necessarily be associated with cultural competence. In any case, you, Mr State Secretary, will have to do away with it. We have thought something certain about the questions. You will not be able to answer all questions simply with a yes, but you will have to decide what question you are asking and what question you are saying no. I ask you: What concept of financing would you like to see the public contract to the ORF, namely the information, education and culture contract, carried out in the future? Are you of the opinion of the current general inde pendent that fee financing is a task for making a programme for all, which will necessarily be expressed in a reduction in quality - we have proven it to be so - or do you share this opinion, or do you not rather share the opinion that we Liberals represent that the financing of fees should serve to ensure that the ORF does not depend solely on advertising revenue so that it can guarantee a certain quality in its tasks and does not always seem to be able to see if it loses advertising revenue sometime or other? That's two questions. You can't say yes to both. You have to decide. At least now you have to confess color. Perhaps this is also an indication of the future decision in this ORF. It would also be interesting to know - you also have to expect that it is not enough to say that everything will go well - what the Federal Chancellor intends to do in the future with regard to the financing of the ORF, if all savings measures, if they should at all take place, are not sufficient. Will you say: Let's raise the fees! Or will you say: Let us increase the opportunities for advertising revenue! Or will one say: One should give the ORF to that part that now flows to the countries or at least decouple things! We have thought a little bit about all these questions. And since no media policy lines have been identified so far by this Federal Government and by these coalition parties, we hope that with today's urgent request we can at least experience a minimum standard of the lines from you. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e6976	In reply to the question, the President of the Federal Chancellor of the State Secretary spoke. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, Mr. State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e6994	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! First of all, I would like to apologize to the Chancellor, who is at the EU summit in Cardiff, who is therefore making use of his constitutionally guaranteed right to be represented by me. At the beginning, I would also like to oppose an allegation put forward in the urgent request by drawing the government in the media sector of inactivity. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: That's right!]] I don't think that's right. It is very likely that a certain activity has been developed. [[Abg. May. Peter: You seem to do this only in secret!]] Especially after the Federal Chancellor's accession, it was possible to create the legal conditions for the Austrians to have currently about 50 radio programmes to choose from, and there are also a variety of private television programmes that are distributed via cable and satellite networks. [[Abg. Dr Schmidt: That's not the ORF!]] That was an activity of this federal government, and this has happened over the last one and a half years. [[Abg. May. Peter: Did you want to prevent this?]] I should therefore like to tell you that there has been a great deal of emphasis here, that measures have been taken, and that this has led to an unimportant movement in the media landscape, which has in fact already been shown to have an impact in the areas I have mentioned. It is true, however, that there is also a need to take account of the fundamental changes in the international media world and that there are challenges in this regard to the public broadcasting of a country such as Austria, particularly in the context of the much larger German-speaking market. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Two years ago we drew attention to this!]] I do not think that The level of revenue falling at the same time as higher programme costs can justify the adoption of a public service contract. However, I believe that it is important to ensure independent Austrian broadcasting in the future to convert this broadcasting into a capital company. The benefits of such a transformation lie in increased flexibility, clearer management structures, the possibility of developing additional business areas and, in particular, greater political independence, and the fact that decision-making for the managing director is not as complicated as is currently the case. Of course, the Federal Chancellor continues to confess to this Convention of Labour, which you mentioned, and will continue to work on the implementation of this Convention of Labour. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Confession is not enough!]] Questions 1 and 2: The Government's proposal to reform the Radio Law will be sent to Parliament immediately after the government's agreement. [[Ironic cheerfulness at the Liberal Forum and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Smolle: Mr State Secretary! Maybe you'll tell us when the time comes!]] I am still convinced that the legal form of a capital company is best suited to the performance of the tasks of the ORF, but I am also open to other solutions that meet the objectives of a future-proof broadcasting reform. [[Abg. Smolle: When will the government agree? Tell me quando, quando, quando?]] This openness makes me confident that we will find a common solution to the interests of this country and the ORF. Question 3: The postulates of the economic viability of Austrian broadcasting on the one hand and the assurance of the high level of programmes on the other are in no way incompatible for me. Programme quality does not mean that a programme for the advertising industry would be uninteresting. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: D'accord!]] In the future of mass communication, program quality and not only commercial quality will be an essential criterion for audience acceptance and thus also for the advertising industry. Question 4: Whether the ORF's programme has actually led to a reduction in quality is beyond my assessment. In any event, it has been shown that the ORF has been able to maintain its economic success in the growing competitive market and that the path taken by the management of the ORF, namely the pursuit of a well-balanced balance between commercial interests and the fulfilment of the cultural contract, on the one hand, is likely to be the right one. As regards question 5, whether we believe that fee financing is used to ensure that the public service contract is fulfilled, and hence the quality and quantity of services in the fields of information, education and culture, in order not to be fully dependent on advertising revenue: This question has to be answered with a clear yes, as the fees due to European considerations will be lifted in the future. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Then you should formulate this as a requirement profile as well!]] This will also be pursued in the negotiations. On question 6: In this respect, I can refer to the above mentioned one. The concept of media policy must be one of competitiveness and of the other quality of the programme. After all, the ORF is subject to strong competition in the German-speaking broadcasting area. It has to be constantly open to the public with this concept, but has so far been very successful with this concept of balance. There is no doubt that the quality of the programme will also be a clear concern in the revision of the Broadcasting Act. The fear of massive collapses in the advertising market at the ORF seems at least unwarranted at the moment. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Why don't you answer the question that was asked?]] I have answered this question. Question 7: The question of any change in the current fee collection is also taken into account in the political negotiations, including comparable studies with other European countries. At any rate, we have not had a bad experience with the current system, which serves the postal infrastructure, so that there seems to be no urgent reason for a departure from the current system. Question No 8: In so far as these are country increases, they are governed by national law and are not subject to the indifference of the federal government. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: You just need to uncouple this!]] In any event, negotiations with the countries could be conducted in the event of a reorganisation of the fee collection. On the question 9: The emphasis must be on the clear separation of broadcasting from any state influence. In this context, it seems essential to me that the ORF is financed by its supervisors and the advertising industry, but not by the budget. Question 10: In our view, the social form of the ORF is not a problem from the EU's legal point of view. However, I would like to add the following: As far as fees are concerned, there is agreement in the EU, especially since the Treaty of Amsterdam and its Additional Protocol, that public broadcasting charges are not subsidies and therefore not unlawful subsidies. In this respect, opinions within the EU are also valid in such a way that the fees are a bill of the cultural and informational order. In this we are in line with the EU's current dominant opinion. On the question 11: It has already been mentioned that there is no fixation on the part of the Federal Chancellor to a literal conversion of the ORF into a stock company. However, we still think that the basics of a capital company, at least modified by specific regulations, are best suited. Question 12: In this regard, I can refer to the questions already answered, and I would like to say once again that we must work towards a well-balanced balance between quality and commercial viability. [[Abg. Smolle: What is this balance?]] However, I would like to return to the questions already answered: The collection of fees is certainly a form of financing in order to comply with the cultural and informal mandate, which means that there is a dependency relationship in this respect. On question 13 with regard to the film industry: In principle, the Austrian Federal Government acknowledges the importance of the film industry in the artistic field. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: You haven't noticed that so far!]] The Federal Government has also increased the film funding fund by 15 percent. This increase is quite apparent at the time of a package of savings, at which no increase in approaches in the other areas was made, and I would like to point out that this was a reaction because we wanted to counter it. I should also like to point out that the Film Promotion Act has also been amended and that it has a very successful approach, which naturally favours those who make successful films, while those who make less successful films are not taken into account. It should also be noted that in Austria some 1.6 billion schillings flow into the film industry and only a relatively small part of it is financed by the public sector, namely about 15 percent. This means that there are very many private-law problems, not only public support, but it will also be called upon in the negotiations to ensure that the productions of the ORF are not reduced, but to maintain the current share. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: You've gotten less! About a third in the last few years! You can't get any less!]] Question 14: The Regional and Cable Broadcasting Authority has also granted the licence for the event of broadcasts to two licensees, which in turn include shareholders, which are groups of organisations or will produce groups of radios. With the amendment to the Federal Finance Act 1998 BGBl. No. 74/1998 increased the existing population support by 15 million schilling to promote groups of organisations producing group radio. In spite of the general budget restrictions, a significant step has been taken to promote the national languages used in the federal states of Carinthia, Styria and Burgenland. The Federal Chancellery has also worked towards negotiations between the ORF and the representatives of the ethnic groups. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smolle.]] - I think it was about what the groups of people are getting to produce a programme, and that is the 15 million schilling. This is a very significant contribution that is being made here. [[Abg. Smolle: Half gets the ORF!]] Question 15: The European Charter of Regional and Minority Languages allows for a differentiated approach with regard to the different groups of people, which can in particular address their needs and general circumstances. As far as the Hungarian People's Group language is concerned, it should be noted that a local radio operator in Burgenland has been granted the licence for the event of local radio because it also broadcasts radio broadcasts in Hungarian. As far as the Czech and Slovak national languages are concerned, it is possible to receive consignments in these two languages from the neighbouring countries. For the Roma People's Group language, this applies to the Hungarian People's Group language. On the question 16: The BKA is currently preparing a draft which will be the subject of further concrete negotiations in the near future. A draft law could be submitted to Parliament by the end of the year. On questions 17, 18 and 19, which I can answer together: The question of media concentration and cross ownerships has already been addressed in the Austrian Radio Law, the Regional Radio Act and the Cable and Satellite Broadcasting Law, where a proportionate balance has been found between the actors involved in the media market. Newspapers are possible to participate in the broadcasting event, but only to a extent acceptable to the maintenance of the diversity of views. All in all, I should like to point out that the question of media concentration is an important issue and concern which is being negotiated at European level and that, from an Austrian point of view, it seems necessary not to quickly create a possible overshadowing regime. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: We have a media concentration that is unique worldwide! Unique worldwide!]] The same problem also exists in England. I should like to point out: We are not alone with this problem. Question 20: The existing historical system of press promotion - in particular the rigid criteria - has shown undesirable effects in some areas. For this reason, the Federal Chancellor has commissioned the preparation of a White Paper on press promotion, which is currently being prepared together with an internationally recognized institute. It will include an international evaluation of the various models of press promotion in Europe and will draw up proposals for a more quality-oriented promotion. On question 21: The report of the working group of the Austrian Federal Government, which you quoted as "Information Society", was published on 22 February. Adopted by the said working group on 4 April 1997, chaired by the Federal Chancellor and subsequently published by the Federal Press Office as a brochure in German and English. This brochure has so far distributed 1,620 copies in German and around 400 copies in English to interested parties free of charge. The report is also available in a short version on the website of the Federal Chancellery on the Internet. On the basis of a decision of this working group of the Austrian Federal Government, an action plan or a catalogue of measures to achieve the objectives defined in the report was drawn up by the Federal Chancellor's Office in May 1997. The catalogue, which includes concrete applications in the Federal Government as well as accompanying measures, as well as necessary legal considerations and promotion measures, comprised around 130 relevant activities as of January 1998. The focus is on innovation and technology, such as supporting the development of know-how and raising the level of innovation in companies and public administration, such as the increased use of information and communication technologies to improve management efficiency, or the use of new media for the information and interaction between management and private sector. There is currently an up-dating of this catalogue, and it is already foreseeable that a number of new activities and measures will complement this catalogue. On the question 22: Due to the complexity of the activities covered in the Action Plan there are also different time horizons regarding their implementation or necessary adaptations in connection with the known rapid development of information technologies. In the case of pilot projects, it must be decided in individual cases whether a wider application seems appropriate but also economically reasonable. It should therefore be borne in mind that in these one and a half years, since the Federal Chancellor of the Government has been in charge of this government, activities in the field of the media have been carried out very well. In particular, I should like to point out that there has been a wide variety and extension of the regional radio programmes, that there has been an extension of cable and satellite television programmes. All these are steps that are very likely to be described as media activities. The Federal Chancellor is well aware of the cultural mission of a fee-financed television, and this cultural but also informational order is to be guaranteed by collecting fees in the future. It is therefore the essential questions asked by you to answer with a very positive trend. In particular, I would like to refer to the activities in the field of minority radios which have made a very significant increase in the budget of minorities when they operate radio programmes. All these measures, which I have mentioned in relation to the answer to the questions, are a comprehensive approach which will certainly continue to pursue the objective of converting the ORF into a capital company. However, it is not possible to set a fixed time limit because negotiations will still have to be held so that such measures can also be implemented by law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e7256	Thank you very much, Mr State Secretary. We are now entering the debate. I would remind you that the maximum speaking time per club is 25 minutes, for each speaker or speaker 10 minutes. The first speaker was Mr Dr Kier. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e7281	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr State Secretary, that we are not satisfied with this reply, you must not be surprised. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on Green MEPs.]] They were committed to express themselves on every question, but answers were mostly none. The answer to the first question is really the bottom line. The question is as follows: "Until when will you forward a government template to Parliament?" Your answer read: "Immediately after the government's agreement." I can only say: No, no, no, no, If the government has agreed - the forecast is gloomy - it will probably not hide the result. We're not surprised. However, the question has not been answered: When?, but: Until when? It was therefore asked for the approximate assessment of the date of this agreement. If you tell me that this will be before the next election, then this would be a limitation, although we do not know it exactly - this is perhaps still variable. If you had told us that it would probably be realized by the end of the year, this would have been an answer. I understand, however, that you have avoided this answer, Mr State Secretary. They know as well as we all know in this House that the government is not able and will be able to comply with an appointment that it has set itself. That's what they do regularly. Whether it is the Electricity Act or the Broadcasting Act or anything else - the dates that the government itself sets are not respected. That is exactly what you presented to us on this point. The fact that you did not respond to the question of whether a parliamentary survey on media policy would be in question at all was also a very bright procedure. It is a certain way of replying: One answers by saying nothing. A survey on media policy would be more urgent than ever. The company is in a very difficult economic situation. You know that very well. This company is limping on both legs. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: nonsense! The company is as good as never before!]] On the one hand, the right to the fees is waived because the public-law claim is not implemented, i.e. the defined performance is not provided. What is happening in the field of information in the ORF is by no means what one would imagine under public-law broadcasting. [[Abg. May. Peter: Excursion model!]] That's the first point. Point 2: The ORF suffers from the loss of advertising revenue that has been laboriously conquered due to cancellations in quality. The company is an unmoving colossus. They wonder that no one of the renowned foreign candidates has appeared in the application for the general intensants and that the current GI says that it is leaving the ORF because of reform inability. He has found a seemingly lucrative, interesting and also from the field of work for him certainly attractive task area in Germany. Our people are being recruited by German channels, but our public-law broadcasting is no longer attractive enough for anyone else to apply for the management function, which is not an insider. That's very bad. If only more insiders apply, the staff ceiling will become more and more thinner and thinner. Then an intellectual inbreeding will develop. We need fresh wind in the ORF. Do you really wonder that no one has applied if you do not even know what kind of companies you apply for if you cannot even estimate under what economic and media conditions you will work under? - I wouldn't apply if I had to go to the Nebula. I might have been N.N. for four years. and all of a sudden, all parameters could change, because the government suddenly agrees on something. This is not reasonable to a truly reputable top manager. Therefore, only loyal insiders have applied - both, moreover, close to the retirement age, both statistically above the average Austrian retirement age. This is not a good future forecast for a company that needs reforms. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] This is not supposed to talk to people of this age, but make yourself aware that a relatively young GI, about which it is quite critical, is being exchanged for almost twice as old substitute candidates. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: But freshener is different!]] This is for a company that is at the threshold to 21. It's supposed to work in the 19th century. It's very bad. That is why, Mr State Secretary, your answer is that you could not recognize any inevitable quality reductions, blasphemous or euphemistic, or whatever you want. It is worrying that you do not deal with what would happen if advertising revenue went back. It is a sure forecast that these will go back. You can't seriously stop satellite television. Mr State Secretary! If you say that the increase in the number of satellite programmes and cable programmes is a success of the chancellor's media policy, I would like to ask the question: Did he shoot up the satellites himself, and does he do the program above? - It happens against his will or without his participation. This is not because it has been decided by the Austrian Federal Government, but because television is something from the satellite, which can be made both demanding - not that you don't understand me now - and is also interesting for advertising. We sit on the ground, terrestrial, and watch. We do not even make a reform in our own house! Instead of that, we develop any ideas such as those of a partial privatisation. What's that supposed to be? Should this be similar to that of the electricity industry? In this area, the Constitution has established that the public sector is to remain 51 percent and only a few private individuals are to be included. In the case of public-law broadcasting, this might be the print media. Perhaps you follow the same philosophy as under the Regional Radio Act, which has led to the development of horizontal cartels that hear and see. If we address whether the cartels are not to be questioned, you say: Just no overwhelming trend. What does that mean? Go to the country of the free market economy, to the USA, and look at the antitrust law there! That might be very instructive for you. From a certain size of the market, it is necessary to escape. This claim would all the more apply to intentions involving horizontal intertwined electronic media and printing media. Otherwise, a cartel construction is developing, which you can no longer break. Why Refuse You are the definition task of saying what you mean by public-law? I'm telling you why: Therefore, because the core area of each public-law radio should be a truly independent information system, a guaranteed freedom of the press in the information field - in fact, completely non-dispute and only their professional ethos committed journalists on time. [[Accompaniment at the Liberal Forum]] A blank check on a lifetime can't be shown to a journalist in his field. But on time he must be independent. Do you understand me? [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] A journalist must not fall out of any party grid from the outset. Even if he himself is not party-politically organized, he must not fall out of a grid. He must not bring any other loyalty into this office than his moral and political conscience as a journalist. He must not be on the payroll of any other organization. That is why there are also the incompatibilities which exist, however, only formally. Therefore, you seem to think that as long as the form is preserved, one will also pass through. Not as many things as the programme area are crucial for the quality of a public-law broadcasting service, but for the really double freedom of the press. I mean, if this were once here in the House of Confession and also living politics of the Federal Government, then we would still have great problems to solve. The economic situation of the ORF is by no means rosy and does not give rise to optimism in any way. But then the ORF would at least be a broadcasting station with good journalism. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: The ORF journalists will be very happy if they are disqualified from you! They qualify the ORF journalists!]] Take a look at how interviews are conducted in private or other public broadcasters - not easy-to-care, not gentle and cuddly, but aggressive, brought to the point and sometimes with an overwhelming tendency. The politicians should be able to stand up to this. On the other hand, we have a specific form of fairness and partial Court reporting, which is forced from the outside. The journalists in the ORF are suffering. Some may like it because they can make a faster career, but most journalists in the ORF do not like it at all. Believe me! If you were to create an independence in this area through a reform, you would be, I say now, cynically worth your money as a government.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e7388	Mr Arbitrator has also been mentioned in the speech. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: And curator!]] - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e7435	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to comment on three areas raised in this urgent question: the current question of the election of the general contractor, the question of the conversion of the ORF into a AG and the negotiations on this subject between ÖVP and SPÖ, and the question that the applicants have referred to as "public-law counter-commercial". First of all, to the current situation: I do not want to ask which of the two candidates is better et cetera, to comment. Rather, I am interested in the question of whether it is true that it would be better for this choice and for the ORF if there were a legal regime which would not provide such a terrible procedure. We saw this yesterday with all the clarity and we will see it further. The current regulation is bad; that's true, I admit it. [[Abg. Smolle: That's your fault!]] You don't need to scream, there's been a certain debt for 24 years. [[Abg. Smolle: 24 years of failure!]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Since Kreisky!]] At that time, a law was made on the basis of the Lex Bacher. That's right, too. I therefore thought it very good that one of the two candidates, Dr. Radel, made the proposal: If there's no such new law, we'll at least act like it. If one of the candidates has a very clear voting relationship against himself, he should withdraw his candidate. This could at least act as if there were a new regulation. I found this proposal very good. I would, of course, have found it even better if he had followed it, even in the case that he did not expect, in the case of a voting relationship that speaks against him. However, there is still an opportunity to do so. It's true what you're describing here: The choice of managing director in this form would be a terrible thing for any company in a competitive situation or in an economic competition. This regulation would not be a good way to find the best management in any area, either in private or in public or in public law. On the second question, on the conversion of the ORF into a AG and the negotiations on this subject between ÖVP and SPÖ: Of course you are right, there is not yet a result of the negotiations. You, as a member of an opposition party, of course say so: If this question is passed on to the National Council, it will be better to find a solution. - The essence of a coalition is that two partners are trying to rule together and solve problems together. They must admit to the government groups that they are first trying to find a solution together. That it sometimes takes one or the other too long, I confess that too. It takes us too long in this question. But trying to find a compromise is the essence of cooperation. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] In one question, Mrs Schmidt, you are really wrong: It is true that there was a short-term irritation, including with the coalition partner, on the question of whether the conversion to AG should open up the possibility that one could also sell shares caused by a newspaper report. But this irritation was immediately removed because it was clarified that the SPÖ had never been concerned with creating a possibility to sell or participate in private sites, banks or foreign companies, and it would also be prepared to maintain by law that only the federal government or the countries are in question as owners. It is not that the conversion to AG should enable sales. Rather, conversion to the AG is almost synonymous with something content. It is not so much about the law of shares, it is not so much about the possibility of ownership, sale and participation, it is not about being able to go to the stock exchange, but it is about being able to act differently within the company than it is today. It should not be like today that everything that is not expressly permitted in the company is prohibited. Rather, it should be reversed: It should all be allowed to a company - even in new business areas - which was not expressly prohibited by the legislator. It is a question of being able to act more modernly. The managing director should also be able to intervene in the area in which he is responsible. New business areas are to be opened up. For this, the AG is a synonym. It is therefore not about the possibility of acting as a stock company on the market, but about acting independently in the management of the company and exploiting all possibilities. Please understand that in this direction! We are only concerned with improving the opportunities for management to operate in the company. On the issue of public-law counter-commercial: I think it is very often presented something that does not correspond to reality. What is it really like? - In reality, the freedom of choice that you propose to the public does not arise. Of the total revenue of the company ORF including revenue for 1997, 44.7 percent were due. So less than half of the total revenue is the fee. The ARD is not 4.5 billion schilling, but 55 billion schilling, which this station takes on fees, which is 91 percent of total revenue. At ZDF, 88 percent of total revenue comes from fees, from Swiss television 76 percent and from BBC, as we know, 100 percent. So it is not true that the majority of the revenue, like our neighbours and England, which account for between 76 per cent and 100 per cent, is recruited from the fees, but less than half of the revenue of the ORF comes from the fees. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Currently more than half! We can still figure this out!]] - Less than half! I can prove this to you, and you should know that from yesterday's session. But even if you were right and even if it were a feather over half, even then it would be called: To abandon advertising revenue means to double the fees, and no one would be willing to double the fees. The state would not be willing to add 5 billion schillings. Therefore, there is no other option than to continue this system. Mrs Schmidt! Nor is it true that the fees cover expenditure on the public part. [[Abg. Dr Schmidt: I didn't say that!]] Expenditure on the public sector is much higher. Of the 9.8 billion Schilling total revenue, more than 7 billion Schilling are spent on the public-law core area, i.e. radio, television, national studios, orchestra. So, more than fees are taken, is spent on the public part. What General Infinite Seiler recently said very clearly in a lecture is true: It is an illusion to believe that the ORF is able to profile itself in the middle of the competition in terms of content as a pure cultural institution and at the same time paid by the mass of the spectators and the mass of the advertisers. This can be desired, but it does not correspond to reality.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e7532	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Kukacka. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e7560	In any case more charges than advertising revenue, but I will present this to colleagues today in writing. High house! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the statements of the Liberal Forum on this urgent question today have been based more on submissions than on facts. I would be careful with qualifications - with qualifications such as the curators, all of whom were on the band of parties. I would like to point out to you that you, too, have sent a party politician, a Member to the board of trustees. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: What's his name? Was that the lady's freshman?]] Ladies and gentlemen, regardless of their party as MEPs, our curators are still long. I would like to make that clear to you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would also be careful to qualify the two candidates who have now come to the narrower vote. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Who qualified her?]] On the other hand, 14 candidates have applied and not just two, and on these two the narrower choice has fallen. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: Mr. Kukacka, who qualified her?]] We will not have heard a negative judgment about either of them. They have a certain distinction in content: One is more for the quota orientation of broadcasting and the other more for public policy. That's legitimate. And this is also a reason for the discussion, since it is of course also about the further fundamental path of the ORF. But my colleague, Mrs. Frischenschlager, himself, said about the two candidates you qualified here: [[Abg. Dr Schmidt: Nobody said that!]] For both candidates there's a lot to talk about. They have both advantages. Both have great experience and a lot of expertise. And I have the biggest problems to decide which one I should choose. - That, ladies and gentlemen, is the judgment! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Why should we judge these two candidates worse than your own curator does? Ladies and gentlemen! I am also against the fact that the order mode is disqualified. This order mode is admittedly long and complicated. It must be reformed, that is perfectly right. Furthermore, we do not have to justify this order mode, but it was the Kreiskyian ORF counter-reform that created this order mode. In 1974 - almost in the high flower of Kreisky-Socialism - a general-intendent Bacher as an "operating accident" happened to the German Chancellor Kreisky, and such a thing must not be known. Therefore, the Broadcasting Act had to be amended with an order mode that is now being criticized - now also by the Social Democrats. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Rejoice that the failure has become!]] That is the truth, and these are the facts. We are also for changing this order mode. But one thing I would also like to say: I wonder at the argument of the Liberal Forum that it is so strongly criticised that the first rounds of elections call for two-thirds majority. Yes, for God's sake, it is the ORF's largest media institution in this country! The managing director of this institute is to be decided by a close majority - with 51 : 49 percent? Remember that all the social groups of this country are in this board of trustees - the representatives of the federal states, the Federal Government, the parties and the representatives of listeners and seers! And since you think that immediately only one majority, with 51 percent, should be appointed a managing director? - We believe that the ORF as a common concern is so important that it is necessary for the election of the managing director to win as broad a majority as possible. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: What will it be like in January?]] That's our position. Before we have anything better, we will not give up this easily - also in the interests of democracy and democratic majority voting in this country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Also in the interest of your party!]] Ladies and gentlemen! There is also no reason to disprove the basis of the current broadcasting law. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: But "Kinner"!]] For the independence of the persons and organs who make broadcasting is guaranteed in the Constitution! That is, this law has constitutional status. In my opinion, the legal form of non-profit-making public rights institution ensures independence to a great extent - the independence of the management bodies and the independence of each journalist. The privilege of being able to demand fees from all Austrians, not only to rely on advertising revenue and perhaps to have to focus on the advertising power of the individual companies, as is the case with private individuals, ensures independence. That is why we are as strong for a public-law institution in the form that is currently the case. This financial independence is the opposite of the comprehensive task of programme, supply and federalism. And in the future, ladies and gentlemen, the mark of the ORF must be its independence, disproportionateity, objectivity, diversity of opinions and the balance of programmes. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: What do you think of a black and blue turn?]] The ORF must not be a government radio, not a party radio, nor a broadcasting of the opposition, nor a broadcasting of the various lobbys and interest groups; it must be a broadcasting of all Austrians based on a common, secure constitutional law adopted by a majority. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Black-blue?]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Kier: Does this also know the stenses?]] The fact that the economic concept of this broadcasting cannot be so bad proves that broadcasting is economically better than ever in the past. The balance sheets are excellent, its provisions are very good. His forecasts show that he is on the right track and there is no reason at all to change the legal form of the ORF because of the economic situation. The experts agree on this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr Schmidt: You have not yet known that in the Coalition Agreement!]] We want an ORF based on public law. We also need a quality program. We therefore need a quality programme because there is a tendency to level up. To think that the quantity - if many listen to - is already the quality in itself, is wrong. Public quality programmes are given a high priority in the fields of information, science, culture and also in the programmes for children and young people. Not either the Either-or, that is, either mass attractiveness or elitist quality program, is the alternative, but the both-as-auch is what we want from the ORF. And the study of the Bertelsmann Foundation clearly and without When and But that public-law television can survive in the beginning and all-flooding wave of quota popularity only if it comes to its most important domain, namely to be public-law in the sense of having a focus on information, culture and education. Freedom of violence also has something to do with quality. At least in the purchase and production of youth and children's programmes, the ORF must strive to enforce this ideal. There must also be no announcement of violence, for example by commending violent scenes in trailers - at least not at times when children are still sitting in front of the TV. That's our position anyway. Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion: In any event, we believe that the ORF must place its focus and its self-understanding in its task on a public-law institution. Above all, he should continue to do what he can, and he can, because everything else can do just as well privately, and that is free of charge. The conversion of the ORF into a stock company is not a good idea. [[Intercom calls at the Liberal Forum.]] No one, ladies and gentlemen, will prevent us from becoming smarter. We have also once represented this position, which is right, but we are after intense...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e7772	The final sentence, please, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e7787	... Consider that this is not the right way, but that we should continue to insist very clearly and clearly on a dual media system: here private institutions - both on television and radio - as a public-law control medium in this country in which all social groups are present and represented.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e7814	Mr Ing. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Meschberger. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e7833	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! If I hear that Mr Kukacka is saying here that the ORF should remain as it is - and that is party-independent, free in all decisions, not influenced by party headquarters and so on - I simply cannot believe that a curator of the ORF and media speaker of the People's Party produces such words. This urgent request today is certainly nothing but the result of this embarrassing spectacle of the establishment or the election of a general intern of the ORF. This acting may be felt by politically interested people as exciting, but it is really necessary for the fee payer and for the taxpayer. If you, Mr State Secretary, say here: It is a media policy in this country - that is, a "true" media policy, you yourself have restricted - that is also an insult to all those who are fighting for the freedom of the media or for independent media in our country. You know very well that what government policy has done in this area in recent years is an increase in the Austrian media landscape. The government has been watching in the field of press promotion for years - a truly anachronistic system that is driving the worst flowers. We are promised a renewal in this area from one year to the next, from one declaration of government to another - but nothing happens! In the field of private terrestrial television, one chancellor makes the next promise that Austria's embarrassing situation, the maintenance of a human rights-unlawful monopoly, will finally be eliminated, but nothing happens! As far as advertising taxes are concerned, it is difficult to hinder the advertising industry in Austria and is difficult to compete with the EU. We are promised a solution, a government template, a change of laws in many areas - but nothing happens! That's exactly what happens with regard to the ORF reform, namely nothing. Even since promises, great interviews of your head of government, which today does not come to deal with the urgent question, on the part of statements, promises in the government declarations; for years nothing but persistent failure. This is also an attack on the employment situation in Austria, because, for the sake of party interest, an economic sector is being treated in this way for the sake of power policy. This is really a embarrassing situation, a more than negligent approach towards the taxpayer, towards the citizen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Considering the specific situation of the ORF and comparing it with competitors in German-speaking countries, it can be found that there are around 3,000 permanent employees here and that according to the figures available to me, the ORF is financing 52% of the fees on the one hand and 48% of the advertising on the other. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] - But you are right, honourable Member, it is not tragic whether this is 48 and 52 percent or vice versa. However, if you base the medium-term financial perspective of the ORF... [[Abg. Arbitrators: I have the total proceeds! I have not only advertising and fees, but I have the proceeds, total revenue and share of the fees in total revenue! That's 44.7 percent...!]] That may be all right, too. However the ratio is crucial in fine-tuning: The medium-term financial perspective of the ORF clearly indicates that a 30 percent reduction in advertising revenue is expected. We all know very well that this 30 percent reduction is based on an optimistic outlook, and we also know that the ORF cannot be built on the green meadow, just like other companies, but that it has obliged employees to be in contractual relations and that the possibilities for saving potential are modest. But we also know that the charges cannot be constantly cut up, that there is already more or less a ceiling. That is why it is negligent, in turn, to close your eyes here and to hold back competition with violence. It is tried by all means to preserve the ORF in its monopoly situation. As long as it goes, you want to get that condition. This is not a solution for the future, the ORF will not be eligible for funding in this form in the future! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If you are looking for ways to maintain the financing of the ORF through other forms of company, for example through the stock company, with shareholders from the countries and so on, through shareholder funds and so on, from tax resources, we will not be able to participate in such a process. It is necessary to address the structural weaknesses of the ORF. Here, too, a comparison. If you use the RTL for comparison: a full program for Germany, in the middle of the competition, 800 employees and about 1 billion profits. On the other hand, instead of 800 3 000 employees, two full-time programmes and in the protection of the monopoly, the ORF is one - let us say - of a balanced balance; this is a very positive one, but above all because the regional radios did not go into operation until later. This comparison alone shows the difficult path ahead of the ORF. And we say it: It will be the only way to reform the ORF, because the reform will be based on two things: One is the competitiveness, the other is the depoliticization of the ORF. The competitiveness can only be achieved if, in our view, two programmes cannot be financed in the long term, the ORF must be reduced to a public-law programme, to a public-law channel - that is to say, from our point of view, ORF 2, ORF 1. There must then be cross-subsidisation; that must be possible. The privatized ORF 1 is intended to be profit-oriented, and for the public-law channel ORF 2 is to continue § 1 para. 2 of the Broadcasting Act. However, it is also important not to close your eyes to the fact that a television-appliances tax, as it is currently in force in Austria, will not be maintained in the long run. In the course of this reform, a fee settlement should also be included in a reform in the course of pay-TV considerations or pay-per-view considerations. These are the conditions in which reform must take place. One has to say that, you really have to do that. But what does our government do? - She's offering a spectacle in the course of this order process that's taking place here. We have lost, more or less, a general intern, who is recognized throughout Europe, no matter how politically speaking to him. Unfortunately, we Austrians have not been able to experience the fact that adequate candidates or new candidates had made themselves available. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: But the FPÖ curator is against the sailor!]] Mr Kukacka! For me, regardless of the person, it was a symbol. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: The FPÖ curator is against the sailor!]] I'm not for and not against the liner. I just know he was a symbol for me. For me, he was the first television maker, the first general intern to grow up with a television set from a generation that grew up with the television - to Bacher. What's now? - Now we have two candidates, who are just before retirement, who only met the TV in the middle of their flourishing life. In my opinion, this is a symbolic guide to the Stone Age of Television and not to the future of the ORF. But there we have to go! [[Abg. May. Kukacka: They're over 20 years old in the ORF! It's a disaster, what you're saying!]] Mr. Kukacka! I would like to give you one along the way: This vote was a sounding blow and a defeat of the People's Party. Please let the candidates discharge their promise to withdraw from the vote in the event of a clear failure to vote and to release the way for a short next election! Don't let him sit in this place with this defeat, just so that you and your party colleagues can now lead the negotiations in the hinterland for any posts and positions in the second row! Please think of the taxpayers, think of the payers, think of the ORF as a company! Give the way for a good future solution!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e7925	Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Stoisitis. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e7944	Poštovane, lady i gospodo! Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Mrs. Schmidt has read everything to you, I think: 1994 Coalition Convention, 1996 Declaration of Government Vranitzky, then Declaration of Government Climate, so all that I have personally heard here with my own ears on the issue of ORF, and all that has not been observed. Then there was today the answer to the urgent question by the Secretary of State, to which I quite appreciate: as a lawyer and also in some cultural matters. But please, with all your friendship: What you've told us about ORF and the media today is not what I expect from the Chancellor's deputy. Mr State Secretary! I have expected you to read the speech of the Federal Chancellor here. But that you bring such a strange substrate from a few sentences that he might have said and some of your opinions here, the Liberals have truly not deserved to make a contribution to the issue of ORF reform. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: Not all of us!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Not all of us, but the Liberals have made the urgent request. In the end, your detailed, long response is only a sentence of interest, namely the one on which Mr Kier has also addressed: Until when does the House expect to have proposals on the ORF reform, which can at all be referred to as reform proposals, and which are, above all, such that the opposition also becomes aware of it, or the colleagues of the government parties? There are so-called reform proposals that are sometimes termed at ominous meetings in Salzburg, sometimes in a hotel and sometimes in a guest house, in which someone sometimes cannot participate because he has appointment difficulties. That's what I read in the newspapers. Mr Kukacka laughs, obviously because he is not there. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: I wasn't there!]] This is so bizarre that it is hardly yet expressible. Then comes what I saw yesterday in ORF 2, in the show "Time in Picture 2. - Please, the reporting on this intentional data election has acted like a carnival event. The yesterday's attempt to choose an intentional agent was carnival. This is so bizarre that when people from abroad see what is happening to a billion-dollar company, the future of a billion-dollar company is being dealt with. Ladies and gentlemen! This is highly irresponsible, but not only because there has been no result, but also because it is the process as such. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum]] The Federal Chancellor is in Cardiff and probably has not had the opportunity to see that, because the ORF is not yet on the satellite - which is already at the time, that has been promised for years. The Federal Chancellor probably did not see this, but you, Mr State Secretary, may have seen it. If you have not been convinced so far that the pace of this ORF reform is too slow, then you should actually be, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen. - That's the first comment on your reply. A sentence in your reply has not lulled at me, but has caused the opposite, namely the sentence with the limitation of participation, both in the radio and in the future in television, as regards newspapers or media groups. You've been so kind to say this: Participation must be limited to an extent acceptable to the diversity of views. - What is a "tolerable extent to the diversity of opinions"? If you don't laugh at this sentence I don't laugh at - really not! - take seriously, then, please, on the spot we would have to ban the "Krone" radio 88,6, the RTL radio and the "Antenne Wien" because none of it is to be qualified as "a scale acceptable to the variety of opinions". All over the world, in all these so-called private radios, is the largest media group in the world, Bertelsmann. Ladies and gentlemen! I really don't know who's thinking in the media policy in Austria anymore. I know who controls: the SPÖ and the ÖVP and some who sit in there, the heads, the Rudas, the Molterer. Yeah, the lens. So far I have the feeling: only motor vehicles between the head of state Schausberger from Salzburg and Vienna. There's this whole circus with the meetings that take place or not. But media policy is not really being made, ladies and gentlemen, and I think this is really a matter of concern for the representatives of the two parties - even more - if the opposition here has to make proposals for reform. We have had a first reading or a debate, a deadline debate on the Greens' request, and - I have read this again - we have only received our consent. Mr Schieder has said that it is not in every detail, but in a great way. Mr Kukacka has said that he does not fold every detail, but in large and quite great. Ladies and gentlemen! Waiting for it You here in the high house? - There's a written application for the Novelle of the Radio Law. The Constitutional Committee of the National Council could have been dealing with this for a long time. We have long been able to make Parliamentary Members self-confident about the future of public broadcasting. The basis - and that's just the mistake - would be opposition applications. This is the problem with the whole thing, because the coalition considers the ORF to be its property. [[Abg. Arbitrators: No, that's not the problem!]] The only thing the coalition is interested in is whether it is guaranteed for all futures that the Federal Chancellor, the Vice-Chancellor and the Party Managing Directors may leave their heads out of the castl. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] That's why it's really happening! The future of the ORF does not matter to you, otherwise this reform would have to stand for a long time. It really has to stand for a long time. Mr Kukacka explained here how much he opposed the accusation or the finding that some curators were on the band of the ÖVP or the parties. In this case you do not worry about the SPÖ, in this case it is about the ÖVP. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: I'm worried about the straw!]] That was an absolutely bizarre example yesterday! Apparently there are no party candidates of the ÖVP there. These aren't party candidates, Dr. Radel's not a party candidate. And then there are the voting lines - I must say, the suspected ones - which have led exactly to the result that was no longer to be exceeded yesterday. - Always keeping in mind the interests of public-law broadcasting, its competitiveness, its possibilities to continue on the market, which are restricted from day to day by non-acting the parties and the Federal Government. Ladies and gentlemen! Now I come back to what a previous speaker - I don't know who it was - has already said: If Mr. Dr. Radel had fulfilled his promise, he would have had to take note of this rather clear outcome yesterday. I suspect that not Mr Dr. Radel was the problem, because I think that he - and I come to the issue of "qualification of candidates" - is an absolutely serious and integrated person, who also understands something about the business aspect. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] But please. Is he allowed? - That's the question. Does he have the right, or can he only - I suppose - what the group of friends of the ÖVP is not even whispering to him there, but probably yelling out loud anyway? [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Brumbled!]] It is not about qualification, it is not about the future of the ORF, but it is only about maintaining this state radio in the hands of the great coalition! Ladies and gentlemen! If it were not the case that it was also a matter of influence, then we could not see that on very small aspects. In reality, this is also true when it comes to the billions we are talking about here, but it is also evident in small aspects. I shall now come to the last point on the subject of minority programmes. Such questions are also included in the urgent request of the Liberals. To your answers, Secretary of State: It is true that 15 million Schillings have only recently decided on a budget overrun in popular questions for 1998. 15 million schillings, that's true, but as I see it, ladies and gentlemen, this is a free purchase of an order from the government and the ORF! Because - a corresponding call has already come here - of the 15 million schillings, half of them go back to the ORF immediately, because the ORF in the negotiations has so far been absolutely inconceivable when it came to creating the technical possibilities for minority radio. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Mr President. This is my last comment: It's really all an eye-removing. No one takes the public-law order seriously, and no one from the coalition is interested in actually maintaining the future of the ORF.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e8058	The next speaker is Mr Mag. Peter. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e8077	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kukacka has begun his speech with the bold claim that we would have supported this urgent question with statements instead of facts, and then immediately put himself in the "instruction box" and assumed that we would qualify the candidates. That's not what any of us did! [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Yes! "They're too old, they're in retirement age, and they're supposed to clean up"!]] We have only asked the question of whether it is useful and to be considered a success when applying for the position of a general intern is essentially only a person from the house and not also people who have success in other media companies. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You also put the age into the fight, namely the retirement age!]] I do not consider age to be necessarily a qualification, but also not a dequalification. However, it is not a qualification on this issue either. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: It was meant to be devalued! I understood!]] You got it that way, and I did it right here. The order mode you have chosen for the general intern is, of course, Mr Kukacka, that you know everything - the order mode of the smallest common denominator, so that not one of the two twins can be matched by the other. This is nothing but a safeguard clause. I have other bad news for you, Mr. Kukacka! There is an information society. Have you heard of that? - There is liberalisation in access to electronic media. Saublöd, at once we have to give up this bastion which we have firmly in hand and with its help we have said what is in Austria! - The end of the monopoly, of course, hurts the powerful. A wide range of entertainment offers is offered to people, and I do not have the courage to play as a judge about what entertainment offers people use. I think, however, that in addition to this entertainment offer - only in this way can it be argued for the public-law character of the ORF - there is also a cultural mission, according to which Austrian culture should be spread not only in Austria but also worldwide. Where, then, is the Austrian radio, which can possibly spread what it does in public law with the funds of the Austrians, also worldwide, so that the Austrian culture's message can be seen worldwide via satellite television? Bacher has already talked about it, Seiler has not been allowed to do it, and I don't know if the next general intern can or may. Give me the opportunity, as admittedly not to bring in an economic consideration of the placer! If the owners of a company argue, we usually proceed in the economy in such a way that we put them in the corner they belong to - in the corner of the competing owners - and say that we need an operator. Why Keep It You're not the ORF? Why Make You don't have a private public partnership and give him a private operator you say: No doubt you get the fees, you pay a certain amount for the use of the infrastructure, and you have a certain order, a cultural order and a contract for the supply of all parts of the country with country programmes. It can be defined all, and it can also be determined financially. If you make the order too large and take too much influence on it, the fees will not be enough, and you will not find any operator, just as you obviously now find no one else who is advocating for the position of the general intern, as someone who comes out of the house and says: I want to achieve this as an end to my career. If you take it too far, you yourself will have the responsibility to bear. Obviously can They do not pursue a media policy. A company can't guide you either, because otherwise you wouldn't make the general intern, which will cause him to throw the towel and say: Under these conditions I can't work as a successful man, there I go to RTL to Germany! That he deserves the double there has not been his theme. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: That was the theme!]] He would have liked to continue directing Austrian broadcasting, but as owner, you have given him framework conditions about which he said: Under these conditions, I - Seiler - am not ready to work. That's the point! That's your failure and your failure in this coalition government! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Under these conditions he has already occurred and failed already once!]] Mr. Kukacka! It has taken place under these conditions because it has been promised that these framework conditions will be changed so that the ORF will become a competitive company again. [[Abg. Arbitrators: (in the direction of Abg. May. Kukacka) You're wrong, he's more right than you.]] You have broken this promise several times! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] We should think much more about the whole question of the media. If there is now free access to the media and information in the information society, the question of a functioning antitrust law is becoming increasingly important. The cartel law in Austria is a cartel register with an association action. Where are the proposals of the Federal Government - you have already been announced in government declarations - on the realization of a modern antitrust right, so that everyone can actually call on the antitrust law, there is a competition authority and there is unbundling where concentration of power occurs? But the concentration of power is very strong in your sphere of influence, and you do not, of course, want it to be dissolved. A market works only within its framework, and the essential conditions of the market include a functioning antitrust law and a competition authority. Ladies and gentlemen! The mourning we have experienced and continue to experience in the question of the re-order of the general intern is no more than the mourning game of the ORF. Today, he's still financially good, and today he's still well-balanced. However, the future of a company is decided in its future prospects and not in its balance sheet, since it always holds the past retrospectively. I have great concerns that the ORF is becoming a reflection of the great coalition, which in fact only holds power as the smallest common denominator, which sees mutual distrust, bullying and, on well-Austrian haxels as a management principle. This is not good for the ORF, nor for its employees, nor at all for us listeners and seers!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e8208	It is not Mr Arbitrator, but Mr Cap. - Please. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's just as funny!]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e8236	If the word "eye-eating" has already fallen, I would like to point out one thing: You must have a broken relationship with power, ladies and gentlemen from the Liberal Forum and the Greens! Because to make yourself here and to say almost that you have no relationship to power at all, I just don't take that away from you. [[Abg. Dr Schmidt: Who said that?]] Perhaps it is because of your powerlessness at the moment, but the perspective must be that you too want to exercise power to participate in the implementation of the programmes you are planning. What I find so appealing in these discussions is that it is always presented in this way or is swinging something of it: Power is babbling, and the parties they are currently exercising are babbling. [[Abg. May. Peter: Abuse is bähbäh!]] Because it's a big coalition, it's obviously babbling. But that's too simple, so you can't really discuss the subject. That is why this also has its impact on the media debate. Dear colleague Schmidt! You put - your controversies have hardly changed it, they have only varied it a little inventively, but in principle said the same - on one side media policy and on the other side party policy, and you put on one side the ORF and on the other side party policy. You can be for the board now or not. I am not in favour of this form, because I think it hurts the company. [[Abg. Dr Schmidt: That's where we agree!]] I am in favour of another legal form, and I believe from my long, sad experience in membership of the board of trustees that real reforms should be carried out there. But that, by the way, you - by the way, a member of the board of trustees - are producing and pretending to have occupied the ORF by any cause of deportors or robbers, under the title "Here there is party politics", which is also a political concern! [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Party politician!]] [[Demonstrative applause with the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr Schmidt: You didn't listen to that, Josef!]] Because I have to tell you: In the end, the parties are elected, the parties are sitting in here, and the parties have the representative democratic mandate to design and implement power responsibly in this country. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: Do you know Mrs. Stenzel?]] This is the next point. I prefer the Kukacka - wherever - in the ORF, than the Murdochs, the Bertelsmen and anyone else. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Very well done!]] Not that I love Kukacka, but I find that at Kukacka I know what I am about. If I'm with the "Bertelsmen", the Murdochs, the poets and so on... [[Abg. Dr. Kier: It's not hard with Kukacka!]] I also love the fact that Mr. Freisenschlager sits inside, that's all right. In whatever form this democracy is to be found there, from me also in the most important body. This must not be in this form, not in the curatorial form, but in principle it should be embedded in our system. However, I am opposed to philosophizing about throwing the ORF onto the private market and saying: Now the flaws are coming, now it's gonna be great, now the private ones are coming! I'm listening to you. 88,6, 102,5, all this "comma comm" I've been listening to. I don't know what's much better there than in Ö3 of the ORF. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: That's not the point! It's about the party-political playing field, nothing else!]] But it's okay, we've introduced that, why not! They're supposed to prove themselves now. At some point a part of them will be locked up again, but the fact is that there is a possibility. It would not be possible to prevent that either. I myself was one who was even offensive to make it possible. But where, as a cultural speaker, am I allowed to make this comment, is there a very big difference in quality? [[Abg. Dr. Khol: There's only Ö 1!]] This is also related to the famous reputation for terrestrial television, as Meischberger always does: He says he wants the "Wiener Zeitung", ORF 1 is best not to look at anyone anymore, and then the private one comes. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: You miss the topic!]] That's where he comes in, because he's got a huge market value, and he's waiting for all those who turn on this private TV. First of all, I do not believe that terrestrial television has economic meaning under these conditions. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: You miss the topic!]] Therefore, there will have to be cooperation with the ORF somewhere. But this is a controlled form, which is acceptable for democracy, and for that there must be a certain legal form. I say quite frankly, that is something I believe can be offensively represented in a discussion. This is not an unfair thing, and I ask that it not always be presented as if party politics were in itself and in principle indecent and in the media field particularly indecent. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Not basically!]] No, just say, You don't like this measure, you already like it, but don't always bring this song from any of the road bearings that are around there. There is another point that is important: What can politics do today in this field of tension of power with the media, which are no longer national, but internationally determined? I mentioned Karel van Miert earlier. When Kirch and the "Bertelsmen" wanted to go together to a huge digital conglomerate, he made it clear that this is not possible within the framework of the provisions, the laws, the votes and so on. I think that the whole cartel debate has long been at the European, international level. I am also one of those who say: When I look at the development that is taking place in the Murdoch Group, the Grey Bear is rising up. You really have to take a close look at that. We know what it's like in Austria. I admit, the distribution media print is a concentration that can be really different, but fact is that, unlike other countries, we have a newspaper like the "Kronen Zeitung", which is read daily by more than 40 percent of readers. You can't stand anything else than not to read or read them personally, so you can know what the other 40 percent of the information is available on that day. There is no more to say about this because we live in a democracy with freedom of the press, because it is a successful newspaper and because it is a fact that it is bought. It is the delay in this debate that media concentration is constantly confused with the fact that the "Kronen Zeitung" has the market position it has. What also annoys me, are statements that there would be a "horizontal reporting" of journalists in the ORF that they would be intimidated and so on. There is a need to distinguish very closely. I have long since ceased to locate what was in fact a measure of what had been done in earlier times, so that one could speak of "horizontal reporting". [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Hofkanzler Vranitzky!]] However, I do not deny that there are still attempts of restraints, mutual sympathys and so on, especially at one level or another of countries, and so on - to formulate this once and for all. On the other hand, it is clear that this is to be criticised, and perhaps this is also to be taken into account when we are looking for a new legal form. But in Bausch and Arching to say that the ORF would be the "hort rapporteur" for the great coalition, is certainly not justified. The best evidence was yesterday's report on the curatorial meeting in the "ZiB 2". This was, in my view, fresh, tiring, critical, partly humorous journalism. They have worked out their frustration in the form of an indication that we have such a stupid electoral system for the general intern, that the company is damaged by it and that we have terrible headlines in the daily newspapers. I think that was the best proof that it was not. That is why I am opposed to the form in which we are trying to deal with this issue. Because media concentration was talking, a small supplement to this: At the time, there was no Austrian bank that got in, and then the WAZ men came. I would also like to say this - and I would like to repeat it in the Minutes - as follows: If you want to discuss this seriously, you also need to discuss why this was not possible at the time when this famous media print construction was created. The next point in this context is the question of the film industry. If one looks at the dimensions in which, for example, films are produced in France, but also in the United States, and with which money and capital use is used, one must say that the debate, whether Mr Schedl gets more or less by 15 percent, is important, good and positive - as the Secretary of State has said - but that will not be the solution. That the ORF's market leadership tries to secure me with the rightful combination of advertising revenue and fees and therefore must also pay attention to the quota in its film production, this will not fit some of the filmmakers, but this is a discussion that must be held separately. But the solution will not be found either, but we will have to consider new sources of development, the participation of private capital, perhaps a "tax special" as the French have. This means that successful American films are redistributed, there to the French film, with us perhaps - via the movie map, via a special charge - to the Austrian film. We will have to consider a lot of things in order to mobilise new private capital. It must also be defined as a site issue, as an employment issue that goes beyond the cultural field. As I have already said at the outset: not to operate eye-catching, but to show the links and possibilities that politics has in order to clarify in a political way the tension with the media - on which it is partly dependent in its implementation and in the transport of its opinions and information - which is possible in terms of policy in the final effect. Whether this should be done in the context of an survey or not is a secondary question. I am always positive about surveys. It is only before we deal with this, that we have to ask the question of what to do with it. I believe that this is a very essential aspect. Therefore, my call to bring in more materiality but not to criticize and then operate eye-catching!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e8453	The next speaker is Mr Franz Morak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e8471	Mr State Secretary! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Stoisits! If you call the report yesterday in the ORF, in the "ZiB 2, "Fashing", then I start to ask myself how you celebrate carnival. I can't imagine that because it was something else. One must also say now that we are talking to and for ourselves about media politics, but somehow this would have become a match between puzzle - white, white - puzzle, puzzle - white and nothing else. I miss the proposals, I have to say. In the case of a company that is basically healthy, one must say that. I don't know how colleague Peter would behave if you treated his "white rossl" as the ORF. That's not right. The range is good. - That's terrible! The company's goals look good. - It's terrible! The advertising receipts are good. - It's terrible! [[Abg. May. Stoisits: No one said that!]] A company that has not deserved it has to be said. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr Schmidt: Nobody said that! What are you doing?]] If, of course, there are differences in the view that the ORF must be able to make it clear within this discussion, then we should also stand by the way of transporting and saying it. It is a fundamental question. Of course, for the ÖVP, the ORF reform has to do with saying that we clearly want to transport more public-law content because they are the guarantee that the ORF is financed by fees. How does our concept look? - There should be a greater distinction, recognition between the private channels and the state, the ORF, i.e. a distinction between a public contract and a private contract. It is clear to me that it is a very narrow grat, on which you have to walk as an ORF general intern, but it has to be committed. What more do we want? - We want to limit the representations of violence within the ORF programmes, and if so, at least a label. We want more information in all the programmes within the ORF, a restriction on advertising, especially on children's broadcasts - I am referring to product placement here - and a clear quota for the production of the ORF broadcasts. That's quite clear. You're right, Mrs. Schmidt. It is a shame how we deal with the Austrian film industry. That's not a question! And one of the leading clients in this country, if not even the leading client, is of course the ORF. And if you say, Mr State Secretary, that everything should remain the same as it is, then this is a dangerous threat, because it cannot remain that way. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Of course, we are exclusively concerned about the programmes we ourselves produce, clearly and otherwise nothing, so not about what we are buying. That must be clear! We also want cultural reporting - which I say now as a cultural speaker, also pro domo - to be given a different priority. This cannot be a barrier with which we have to surrender, which we are sent late at night, because this is a good night ghetto for the culture. Then we'll let it die soon! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] According to a fessel study, the reachable audience represents a cultural mission of between 12 and 14 percent. It's relatively high. That surprised me myself, but that's what it's supposed to be. Of these 12 to 14 percent, the meeting point culture is miles away, and you should respond, that is not a question. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The same is true of one - and I have often discussed this - higher play rate for Austrian entertainment music on Ö 3. It cannot be that we hold there at a 4-percent share, as the AKM has noted. I must say that especially in the field of culture, film and music of living authors - exclusively, I would like to emphasize now - the ÖVP and I were a lonely caller in the bodies of the ORF. And that's exactly what surprises me now, Mrs. Schmidt! I've never heard Dr. Frischenschlager say a sentence there. I have never heard that Pius Strobl of the Greens would have liked a sentence there. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Probably you weren't there right now!]] And I regret that because it is, of course, an essential issue. - Please? - I was there. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Probably you weren't there right now, as he said!]] I've always been there. He was less there. The tears you cry for the Austrian film industry, Dr. Schmidt, would be more credible if she cried fresheners in the curatorium. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: He does too!]] Please, let him do it loud. I haven't heard him yet. We don't hear him. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: I even read him!]] Reading between the newspaper and on site, in the eye of Tycoon, the Seiler, making statements is a difference. [[Abg. Dr Schmidt: Then he must have said it!]] This is the task of a Supervisory Board. To AG: Of course, the business form of the AG was and is a ventilated and preferred way for the ÖVP to put the ORF on a new basis. That's clear! The change of opinion, which I must say already, came when important people in the SPÖ were not at all averse to it and spoke in a way that was almost a private national or foreign participation. [[Abg. Arbitrator: That's not true, Mr. Morak!]] [[Abg. Arbitrator: Mr. Morak! Don't say something that's not true! That's not true! That's not the truth!]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: In the standard!]] [[Abg. Arbitrator: Yes, a newspaper has claimed it, but it is not the truth!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kukacka.]] If it's not the truth... [[Abg. Arbitrators: We were with the bowl immediately, and told him that this was not true.]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Häupl has it benevolent...!]] Mr. Schieder! I think so. I just don't know if the others in your party know what you're saying! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I believe you! [[Abg. They who decide about it know it. We have even told you as a coalition partner, even the dish immediately, that this is not true!]] Good. I take note of that! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: Well, one in the SPÖ knows what is true!]] In conclusion: You're talking about what Seiler said to his farewell. I think Dr. Seiler makes it easy. The ORF Curatorium has given its approval to a redesign of Ö 3, a programme reform of Ö 3, to "Ö 3 plus" and to new business areas. Yes, even to the adventure - so you could say - Peterschelka we said yes. The fact that there is a discussion must be allowed if one is to have a sense in this body in any form. The fact that we are discussing it there is also clear, and that we have requested the public service contract is not our invention, but it is even in the law and, as we have already claimed and said, is also the basis for the ORF to demand fees. That's a survival question for the ORF. Seiler - and I have to say this now, it has been mentioned briefly - has, of course, also a reason which has made his farewell easy for him: On the one hand, this is the triple to quadruple Gage at RTL and on the other hand, that RTL also has a transmission concept which Mr Seiler very much welcomes. Of course, he is much more merchant than a representative of public broadcasting. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e8730	The next speaker was Mr Krüger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e8749	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to return the debate or the debate to the core after the last part-session has been limited to discussions among curators, and I do not agree, Mr Schieder, to tell you that I do not think anything bad about your being a Member and curator at all. Your slight aggression - if I may say so - has inevitably met me. However, whether it makes sense for a Member of the House to be a curator at the same time, it is put forward. Please allow me to point out that the board of trustees in the ORF has the function of a Quasi Supervisory Board, because it is not 100 per cent a Supervisory Board within the meaning of the GmbH Act or within the meaning of the relevant provisions of the Stock Corporation Act. But a Supervisory Board has to represent the well-being of the company in whose Supervisory Board it sits. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: He has certain interest groups to represent!]] I place the cause of this tough media policy in this country also in the strong interdependence of politics and public media. I don't think you're going to have this view of things... [[Abg. Arbitrators: This would also apply to other areas where laws are passed and someone is sitting on the Supervisory Board!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kukacka.]] Mr. Schieder! The fact is that Austria cannot invariably be referred to as "media bans". This is a pitiful state. Everyone's going to be right, and we're still a "media albania" today. [[Abg. Arbitrators: I never liked this word!]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank you for your support. Who is doing media policy in this country? - Are these the government parties? I hear that Mr Kukacka himself places a need for action in the election of the general intern, or I read that the Federal Chancellor wants a reform of the general intern election. Mr Kukacka! Do you know when the Federal Chancellor expressed this wish? - That's right. April 1994! That's not new, that was still Federal Chancellor Vranckky. So if you all agree that there is a need for reform, I wonder who It is preventing this long-needed reform from actually implementing it. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We know that we are still far from creating, in Austria, a legal basis for the media sector corresponding to the human rights convention. We still have no private terrestrial television, we still have no private national broadcasting. As long as these two areas are not accessible to the private sector, we have not realized the relevant articles of the Convention on Human Rights, namely those of freedom of expression and those of radio freedom, which are part of freedom of expression. That's fact. [[Abg. Arbitrator: Yes!]] Mr. Schieder! They're shaking the head! But can you call me a European country next to Austria where there is no private terrestrial television or where it would be prohibited by law to operate private terrestrial television? - Until a few years ago Albania! - Please. [[Abg. Arbitrators: May I interrupt you?]] [[Abg. You will agree with me that the question of whether or not something corresponds to a convention is not that there is where!]] Mr President, I should like to thank Austria has joined this Convention. They know exactly that the Convention must be considered constitutionally, that is, it stands in the constitutional order. They also know the recognition of Lentia from 1993, in which the Republic of Austria was sentenced to have violated the right to freedom of expression and the right to freedom of broadcast events. [[Abg. Schieder: That does not mean federal broadcasting!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Arbitrator: Where's the state-wide radio?]] You know very well, Mr Schieder, that only in sub-areas the illegality of human rights has been remedied, namely in the field of private radio rights. [[Abg. Arbitrators: But not all over the country.]] They themselves know how the procedure has been replaced by the fact that there has been a private radio law, a regional radio law, which the Constitutional Court of Justice had to abolish as unconstitutional. [[Abg. Arbitrators: But it must not be throughout the country!]] There has been a second attempt, and constitutional court complaints are still pending. It has not yet been said that there is constitutional conformity. But if I am already interested in this very interesting issue, which may not interest the general public so much, I admit that, then I would like to point out one more point, Mr President: The former curator Josef Cap, in which it is also interesting that he now sees a need for change at the board of trustees, because when he was a member of the board of trustees, I never heard anything about a need for change, has something completely The right thing to say: He said that in principle it would be no offense if democracy were to be found in a public-law broadcasting system. In fact, there is a fundamental obligation for him to do so. But, my colleague, How does this democracy look? - you know the strength ratio in the National Council, and the strength ratio in the board does not have the least to do with the strength ratio of democratically legitimate parties. You know that just as I do. On the one hand, there is the ÖVP block, which is now called ÖVP-friend circle, as I have read, and on the other hand the SPÖ-block, and then there are still some sprangs, a liberal envoy, a liberal and a green one. This has nothing to do with the fact that, in the sense of a representative democracy, the electorate's will to participate relatively in the creation of will will will in fact also help to break through. This law is nothing more than an attempt to maintain power of parties that are not so strong for a long time, which, while able to unite almost two thirds of the votes in the last National Council elections, can in fact determine 100 percent of the formation of will in the board of trustees. [[Complaints with the liberals]] And that is democratic policy, because you will probably have to give me a right in the very least, very worrying. [[Abg. Arbitrators: And your electors will make a breakthrough through the spell!]] Mr President, I should like to thank I am not saying that I am a follower of the system that political parties must at all send representatives to supervisory councils. But if I remember, in the sense of Mr Cap's thesis, that democracy is to be found again, then the political parties and thus the electorate have to be represented in relation to the strength. And that's not the case. You know the Genesis that has already been discussed today. The Radio Law goes back to the so-called psychoterrorism affair, which was then carried out between the so-called Tiger Gerd Bacher and Bruno Kreisky. At that time - and this has been quite rightly said today - we have created a electoral mechanism which simply prevents the use of a sales office without packaging, without exchange, without - I say it - a private business, without an intentional intention. This is a fact, and this is an abuse that has to be eliminated. It is no less than a green curator, who is the most vivid example of this unsightly, yes, I would like to say, unustious blend between the interests of a Supervisory Board or a curator and its own economic interests. Such shameless interests have never been realized in the sense of maximizing own shops as the green curator Pius Strobl. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That must be imagined, there is no such thing as that. He sits in the board of trustees, completes business with himself, respectfully with a newly elected candidate, and secures the television rights for the transmission of the football World Cup at the expense of the Austrian host industry and the Austrian population that this has to pay again. If this is not a classic collision, on the one hand, to be curator, to have the proximity to the company, to have a call for tender, to the decision-makers, and to enjoy these transactions on the other hand, I wonder what you understand in the ORF under collision and hygiene, under political, business hygiene. Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, we do not need to be upset because the situation in the ORF, the situation of the Radio Law is only a part of a missing media policy, I would say, no media policy at all, because you, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, are just running media policy... [[Complaints with the liberals]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e8938	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e8953	...to preserve power. And this retention of power is worth it to you that you make magazines millions of orders, for example, that large ads in contemporary magazines be placed in millions of height by the Ministry of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e8981	The next speaker is Mr Karl Smolle. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e8999	Gospod predsednik! Visoki Dom! Dear friends! Dragi prijatelji! For the time being, I would like to thank you for the kind reception. It was really nice to get back to the house. I will need this kind gesture of affection, especially if I will bring in some interesting templates in the next few months, and I would ask to support myself to the same extent. Good things will be prepared by me in the majority, and I ask for support in this regard! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You know that we have a new Rules of Procedure and that we cannot talk for a long time!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I have to say with regret - one of these reports shows - that some in this House have only become grayer, but not smarter and more mature, and this is a little worrying for me. Some have even lost their husband, the They still came proudly at the time. But now I would like to return briefly to today's urgent question, which is really urgent. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. We have a problem, a really big problem: In Parliament, it is possible to put false claims in the right place by means of actual corrections, but unfortunately the so-called half-truths cannot be corrected. And the Secretary of State has provided a wonderful example of such half-truth! That's easy to say: 15 million Schilling in the media sector. But if you approach the truth a little bit, you see, as Mr Stoisits has already done, that half of them go back to post and ORF, so to speak. That was the sum that the Federal Chancellery promised us as the first rate: We'll give you once as much as Post and ORF cost. So the program costs were not included at all. If the levy is still calculated, it must be borne in mind that only a small part of it can actually be used for the design of programmes. The ORF itself has clearly stated: The programme that we now want to offer on the private rail also makes it, but by 30 million schilling. Ladies and gentlemen! That's reality. In other words, we have no cost-truth here either, there are half-truths in the area of costs. Ladies and gentlemen! The Charter of Minorities and Regional Languages has been waiting for some years for the realization and ratification of the House. It clearly states that at least one channel must be guaranteed for the groups, with the aid of the public authorities. It is clear that groups are unable to obtain the same advertising revenue. We cannot, as it were, simply generate enough revenue in the free market. But on the one hand, the ORF offers its broadcasting facilities in the free market, and on the other hand, we are given little resources to be able to operate programme-forming. ==References== In fact, on September 1997, Mr Schwimmer of the ÖVP, Mr President, said that we should actually get the Charter on the parliamentary table. I shall make a very special request in the next few weeks, when we have a plenary session again. Ladies and gentlemen! The current media supply of the ethnic groups is very poor, it is very bad. For example, there is no provision for the Czechs, Slovaks, Hungary and Croatia in Vienna. Mr State Secretary! There is your suggestion that they should almost listen to the programme from neighbouring countries, I would like to say, embarrassing. Because it's clear: There is an order to the ORF, there is also an order for the Federal Government to take care that the supply is carried out in the country. That's a very clear assignment! Completely Incomprehensible But your behavior - and this is even said by Mr Schieder - when you consider: 24 years of failure! We know that we have had to change the ORF law for 24 years. There is a very clear mandate in a motion for a resolution that you should do so, but nothing happens. Ladies and gentlemen! That was a little word message for today's day, a small beginning. I must say with regret: a reason for a critical beginning, which I had to experience here today. It is repeatedly noted that: The people's group would have the opportunity to participate in the hearing and visionary representation, to express itself in terms of the programme. At the time, there was a request from Mr Smolle, then by Mrs Stoisits, that we should, of course, deliberately choose members of the audience and seers' representatives, because only these people understand the broadcasts. The others only hear and see, but don't understand. And we have the sad example that, particularly in this area, very many journalists have great fear of the two-thirds majority coalition parties in the ORF and have a form of reporting in a preventive, forward-looking subscribing manner, which we could still call, above all in the minority radio and in minority television, as "state broadcasting". Mr Kukacka! Of course, it is the summit point of hypocrisy to say that the two-thirds majority is a sign of the great economic concern of the two coalition partners around the ORF. It is all about blocking each other by a majority of two-thirds, and only when the price will be known, what an intentionant costs and what you can get elsewhere will there be an agreement. And we also have the State Secretary as a living example. There will only be a government template when the two sides of government will agree, not when problems arise, but when this is finally great-coalition. This is a sad first day for me in Parliament, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e9040	I don't have any further words. This concludes the debate on the urgent question. We also completed the agenda. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e9064	I would also like to say that at today's sitting, the motions 802/A and 803/A were tabled by themselves. Questions 4522/J to 4527/J were also raised. Statement on the absence of a Member
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00127_d7e9088	I note that Mr Rosenstingl did not attend this meeting of the National Council. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled to take place today at 5.46 p.m. The agenda can be found in the written communication distributed at the meeting room. The sitting is closed.
