ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00151_d7e547	I'll open the 151. National Council meeting on Friday, 27 May. November 1998, at 7.18 p.m. The Official Protocol of 149. Meeting of 26. In November 1998, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. As prevented, the MEPs are reported Mag. Firlinger, Haidlmayr, Dr. Heindl, Koppler, Dr. Herbs, Ing. Langthaler, Dr. Schwimmer and Mag. Stoisits. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00151_d7e581	As regards the negotiated items and their allocation, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the written communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00151_d7e701	Furthermore, in addition to the written communication distributed in the hall, I agree with Mrs Kostelka, Dr. Feurstein and others' motion 972/A concerning a change in the Federal Constitutional Act to the Constitutional Committee. I also agree with Mr Kostelka, Mr Khol, Mr Kier, Mr Smolle and Mr Petrovic's motion for a resolution. I then announce that the 13th. The report of the Incompatibilities Committee was distributed to all members of the National Council. Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00151_d7e740	I would also like to say that Mr Magistrate. Schweitzer has requested that the Constitutional Committee report on the 728/A (E) resolution on alternatives to the Semmering Base Tunnel be limited to the 15th. ==References====External links== Hiezu is that of five delegates according to § 43 para. 3 the request made by the Rules of Procedure to hold a brief debate on this request for a time limit. This brief debate will take place after the agenda has been completed. For the purposes of the deliberations of today's presidential conference, I am now interrupting the meeting until 28. November, 0:00. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Business treatment!]] For business treatment, Mr Mag. Stadler. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00151_d7e789	Mr President. I spoke before the sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00151_d7e814	Mr Stadler! I didn't see it. You made a statement before the interruption? [[Extensive opposition and no-run at SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[President Dr. Brauneder gives the bell sign.]] High house! As you have seen, I've been referring to Croquis. I cannot see in the Croquis and at the same time watch who has spoken. I therefore first ask my officials what perceptions they have made. [[President Dr. Brauneder talks to a concept official.]] There is no doubt that I will allow this report to be made on business treatment. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00151_d7e859	Mr President. Apart from the fact that the procedure, as you have just presented it as the result of the presidential meeting, is a break in the agreement of the last presidential conference, which was also blessed by the First President, I shall make on behalf of my group the request, the Minister of Transport, to which the motion for a censure applies, in accordance with § 18 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure on the debate on the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00151_d7e883	May I ask you a question? [[President Dr. Brauneder is speaking to a concept official the other day.]] Mr Stadler! For clarification only: Does that mean, now? Or... for the debate. [[Abg. May. Stadler: To the debate!]] That means: 0:00. For business treatment first Mr Klubobmann Khol, then Mr Klubobmann Kostelka. Please, Mr Dr. Khol.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00151_d7e919	Mr President. Can you please teach me: There is no longer any debate on the vote on distrust, because the debate has been closed on Thursday evening, and the vote has only been postponed. The vote was taken at 0 o'clock at the suspended sitting. That is why I do not understand what would be allowed to be debated here.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00151_d7e943	Mr. Klubobmann Kostelka, please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00151_d7e965	I wanted to go into exactly the same, Mr President, because an assignment meeting is ex-definitions a meeting without a agenda. The vote before us is also not an item on the agenda. That is why such a debate would be carried out immediately, and I cannot understand your decision. I ask you to explain this to the house and me.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00151_d7e989	Mr. Klubobmann Kostelka! I haven't made a decision yet. Mr Klubobmann Stadler came to speak.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00151_d7e1013	Mr President. Apart from the fact that, as already stated in the President-in-Office's Conference, we have a different view of this, I am now extending my request and seeking to ask for a debate on the proposal for a deadline to be submitted by Mr Kostelka to be attended by the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00151_d7e1046	On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), Mr Klubobmann: You have now used the word "also" to set deadlines... – For the short debate. [[Abg. May. Stadler: To vote and debate on the request for a deadline!]] That is, because you used the word "also", you think Mr. Minister One too... – Well. [[Abg. May. Stadler:... has to be present!]] I think there was an error now. I can't decide who first spoke. – Mr Kostelka, please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00151_d7e1089	Mr President. The clarity for the sake of clarity: Of course, it is the right of every Member to make a request that a member of the Federal Government participate in a debate or process. But it is also clear that the majority of the House decides on this; that is of course the case. Neither a motion of censure nor a debate on time limits are debated, there are discussions in this House in which members of the Federal Government have participated and will continue to participate in the future, because it does not seem to be useful. This is a practice we should stay with. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Oh! That's something new!]] If you have the request, you shall vote against it. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Mr President! Can you hold the Presidency on your own? The President needs no instruction!]] As a result of this interpretation, which has already been made, I would ask to go into the debate on the deadline, and then, as agreed in the Presidency, to interrupt the meeting in order to resume the debate at 24 a.m.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00151_d7e1154	I'm allowed to ask for rest! It's very hard to hear what's being spoken down here on the stage, especially at such a noise scene. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00151_d7e1184	Mr President. I assume you have interrupted the sitting.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00151_d7e1202	I gave Mr Klubobmann Stadler the floor for business.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00151_d7e1217	So the session's not interrupted yet?
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00151_d7e1244	Don't interrupt yet!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00151_d7e1259	I would ask that the debate on the request for a deadline be held before the interruption, that is, now and immediately.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00151_d7e1298	In order not to discuss this question here, I am briefly interrupting this meeting. I would ask the Members of this House to discuss this question. The sitting was suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 7.26 p.m. and resumed at 7.39 p.m.)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00151_d7e1325	Ladies and gentlemen! I take up the interrupted session again, and I ask you to take the seats. After a longer discussion which you have observed, which was of course very detailed and profound, what I think is serious, there is a certain agreement that the applications for business treatment are now being put to the vote. [[Rejoicing]] [[Renewal Rejoicing]] These are three applications. First of all, there are the two citations made by the clubman Mag. Stadler. I can remind you: The first request concerns Mr. Bundesminister Einm. I put this request to the vote. It is hoped that Mr Bundesminister will appear here in front of the plenary session of the National Council. – This request does not find the majority, it is rejected. I put to the vote the second motion for a resolution; he once again concerns Mr Bundesminister One. . Nor does this request find the majority, it is rejected. Thirdly, I would like to put to the vote Mr Khol's request for business treatment to hold the debate now. I am asking whether this proposal will be accepted by the majority. - He finds the majority. The debate is therefore now to be held. Short debate on deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00151_d7e1399	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Schweitzer. You have a maximum speaking time of 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00151_d7e1420	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We have therefore requested the deadline debate we have requested, because we believe that the request of the liberals, which has the immediate use of the planning of the northern section of the South-East Spange, on the one hand, and a construction stop for the Semmering Base Tunnel project on the other, is more than ever authorized. [[Intrusion of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This request is the continuation of a consistent freedom policy on this issue. Since the Semmering-Base Tunnel project was established in the brains of socialist transport politicians, we see that this project only serves to waste money and will not have a real effect on improving the situation of transport in Austria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! For ten years we have been discussing the use of the construction of the South-East Spage, and for ten years we are already discussing the sensuality of the Semmering base tunnel. For ten years, nothing has been done with a few exceptions. In the meantime, traffic traffic has developed massively, especially in the East, but there is no way to escape from the road to the rail, which you are constantly demanding! Ladies and gentlemen! I would remind you of the development of traffic on the A 2 South motorway: Many tens of thousands of people from Eastern Austria travel every day to the capital of the Federal Republic of Germany, 70,000 from the south-east of Austria alone! From day to day, they must be in storage longer. Ladies and gentlemen! I remember: The only thing you have contributed to with your transport policy in this context is the expansion of the largest "parking space" we have in Eastern Austria, namely the South motorway. Most recently, there has been congestion to Wiener Neustadt, and that should give you some thought! Until Wiener Neustadt stands the cars with people who have to drive to daily work! This means that these people have to get up earlier from week to week if they intend to get to work in good time, but they can't do it. This means that many businesses have to give up their early employees' activities because they are in storage. This means that a large number of waste gases are produced in the congestion, causing a total economic damage, the height of which can no longer be estimated. - But that leaves you cold! Your transport policy does not take any account of it at all! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Instead of saying so, you have put 3 billion schilling into a project, which has now been officially confirmed several times, that it has been completely inadequately prepared and is still not needed by anyone, because the capacity on this route is far from exhausted and it is not worth investing in many, many billion shillings for a 20-minute travel time which could be achieved with other facilities – I refer to, for example, Pendolino or Talgo. Ladies and gentlemen! Since this week, the Court of Auditors' report has been available, and this report confirms once again that this is a project which cannot be further built. [[Abg. Zweytick: Bad read!]] That is exactly what the Court of Auditors report says! The only one who has not read it is the Minister for Transport, and now there is obviously another, namely Mr Zweytick! – Let us ask colleagues Kukacka: He's already read it in a different way! By the way: The colleagues from the ÖVP-Nederösterreich have been reading this quite differently for years. You really need to agree where to go! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But obviously one can assign more expertise to the Lower Austrians in this context than to the Styrian colleagues of the ÖVP. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! For this reason, I would like to ask you to agree to this request, which should at last lead to the goal of starting the construction of the South-East Spage, which would cause 500 000 people in Burgenland and Styria to have a reasonable connection to the Federal Capital! Mr Wabl! They're shaking the head! 30 000 family fathers from the South of Burgenland have to travel to Vienna week after week and spend the whole week here! 30,000 family fathers go over their families all week! [[Abg. Oillingers: Women too!]] That's not a problem for you! On Sunday or Monday, 30,000 family fathers must pack up their pieces early so that they can survive quite cheaply here. 30 000 family fathers must invest a huge sum of money in order to be able to live here. This money would be far better invested in a structurally weak region such as the Southburgerland or East Styria. It has only recently been confirmed – although we have been on the "overdue track" for decades thanks to socialist government – that we are 71 percent of the EU average in terms of economic performance. We are behind Spain and Portugal! This is the result of socialist economic policy and socialist transport policy, ladies and gentlemen. We should really discuss how to improve this! It would not only improve the transport situation for the 500 000 of those affected, but would also lead to economic impulses in these regions. That is why we consider it particularly urgent that this request should finally be negotiated.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00151_d7e1493	Mr Parnigoni is also speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). It is known that, according to business regulations, no more than 5 minutes of speaking time is available to each speaker. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00151_d7e1511	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! First of all, I would like to say: Of course, we want to do something for the commuters, so for some time we have been negotiating a law on local transport with the countries. The fact that this is not a very simple matter is quite clear because it concerns a lot of money. But we have a bill, we will agree with the countries, and we will therefore find a solution for the donor. The Committee of Experts and the Court of Auditors report noted that the South-East Spange was not an alternative. That is clear and in the report. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Meschberger.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I didn't want to go into content on the Semmering base tunnel, but I really have to mention one aspect: If you create the base tunnel and use side-technology trains, the driving time between Vienna and Graz will be reduced by one hour and between Vienna and Villach by one hour and 40 minutes. You can finally transport complete trains with 1,200 tons, which is simply necessary. Compared to the mountain route, you can save operating costs per anno of 270 million schilling It would at last be possible to transport large containers on this route, which is of enormous importance to the economy and which would allow Carinthia and Styria to be connected to the respective economic areas. It's clear: If there is no basic tunnel, the rail will lose a transport substrate of 400 000 to 500 000 tonnes. Ladies and gentlemen! I remember a Carinthian memorandum. This says: "Development of the existing South Railway. In order to be able to reduce significantly the unreasonable driving times between Carinthia and the Federal Capital and the federal states of Lower Austria and Styria..." [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Meschberger.]] This also includes the construction of the Semmering base tunnel! [[Abg. Gradwell: Who signed that?]] That's signed by old country captain Haider! So, what's this?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Don't be too early!]] ==References== April this year, the Federal Council clearly held down the inevitability of the construction of the Semmering Base Tunnel, and free Federal Councils voted in favour. The Landtage Carinthia and the Styria have called for the Semmering Base Tunnel, with the support of the liberal Members! What credibility are you doing, ladies and gentlemen? In fact, I am surprised at this debate and the efforts of Mr Schweitzer, who was not at all in the Committee on Transport, who did not know what was happening there. For it was played that on the 2nd day of the year. In November the F had not taken the floor at all. I cannot, therefore, honestly defend the impression that, as you know, the love of the liberal Members for Rosenstingl – the FPÖ member – is simply not cold. It is simply a need for them to be remembered by Mr Rosenstingl of the FPÖ. That is why his request is given particular importance. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Isn't he sweet, the Parnigoni?]] Ladies and gentlemen! They don't want anything but to stage the usual theater here. You're not doing very well, that's your problem! [[Abg. Haigermoser: Watch the watch!]] And in addition – I still have a speech time of two minutes colleague Haigermoser, don't worry! – the application is obsolete, because the application by the FPÖ member Rosenstingl from Fortaleza states that an alternative test is to be carried out. – Ladies and gentlemen! The fact is that the expert committee has already carried out this alternative examination and has noted that the Semmering base tunnel is the best option. Ladies and gentlemen! Let us put aside the party-police debate and turn to the real needs of transport policy! The fact is that there is simply no alternative to a reasonable expansion of this north-south axis. We do not want Austria to get around, we want freight to be heavily shifted to the rails, and this is not about taking away every truck, so to speak, but it is just about...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00151_d7e1590	The final sentence, please, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00151_d7e1605	It is about bringing to the rails the increase in freight traffic, which is quite simple and which can be seen in every study. We will therefore not agree to your request!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00151_d7e1635	Mr Magistrate has also been mentioned in the debate. Kukacka. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00151_d7e1657	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Gentlemen of the Freedom Party! They know that we are critical of the Semmering base tunnel. [[Abg. Aumayr: Who is "we"?]] - We, the Austrian People's Party. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Let me talk to you! We are basically on the decisions taken by the National Council, but also by the Federal Government in this regard. But we also believe that there have been mistakes and omissions in the implementation of these decisions. And these errors and failures, which are also documented in the Court of Auditors' report, must be discussed comprehensively and openly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: In the Presidential your club has rejected every debate! Check it out!]] We will discuss this and, above all, we will deal with the political aspect of the fact that certain resolutions of the National Council have been negated and not followed. We see that very critically. Ladies and gentlemen! However, criticism must first take place where the Rules of Procedure of the National Council provide, for example in the Court of Auditors. There this Court of Auditors report needs to be discussed comprehensively and critically. Ladies and gentlemen! If you make a request today and say that we should decide on this, I would like to say that this request is completely obsolete and partly absurd. For in this proposal it says: The Minister for Transport is asked to ensure that the Semmering-Base Tunnel project is not continued until the Court of Auditors' Special Report is present. – This special report has long been available! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haider.]] That is why we cannot decide on this request, which is absurd! – Ladies and gentlemen! They only use this as a vehicle to pull off a political spectacle here again and against it we are! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Mr. Kukacka! That was intellectually very flat!]] Mr President, I should like to thank In the second part of your application, it states: The Minister for Transport is asked to ensure that the planning of the northern section of the South-East Spage is immediately commissioned. – Ladies and gentlemen! They always refer to this special report on the Court of Auditors. Didn't you read it? You know very well that this report states that, first of all, an in-depth economic review must be carried out with a view to this South-East span and that the Semmering expert group must carry out the studies it has announced. That is what the Minister for Transport has arranged. I would also like to tell you what the President of the Court of Auditors has said on the subject of South-East Spain. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The cane says: construction stop!]] - Listen! He said: For the President of the Court of Auditors, a non-serious alternative is the South-East span with costs of more than 60 billion schilling. – Now you want to start planning immediately for this non-serious alternative! And that's what we're supposed to decide today. Ladies and gentlemen! We do not participate in such an unscrupulous transport policy!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00151_d7e1756	Mr Klubobmann, Dr. Haider. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00151_d7e1778	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I am glad that Mr Kukacka has granted us that the opposition, if there is a report of the Court of Auditors, has at least the right to hold a debate on this Court of Auditors report. If you criticise our request to which we have referred, you have, I believe, not understood what the Court of Auditors report says. For in our request we have called for a stop to construction until the Court of Auditors' report which we have requested, because we have known that this project, as it is addressed, can only go by: And the Court of Auditors now also recommends a stop from building until things are clarified. So what is it that prevents you from participating in our request for a deadline and for the construction of this adventurous company, which has already cost us 3 billion shillings of tax money? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That's the decisive thing about this! What is it that prevents you from recognizing, Mr Kukacka, that the Court of Auditors' recommendations state that, at last, the in-depth economic calculation of the South-East span must be started, which has already been commissioned by Transport Ministers for Strings in 1991? That means: For seven years this in-depth examination should take place, but the ministers have said climate and one or say: We have our favorite project Semmering Base Tunnel, where we supply orders to the banks' own, red-oriented construction companies. We do not have money for the construction industry and for jobs, but that will go through. There must therefore be no alternative. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We want to point out that there must be no debate on alternatives here. 3 billion schillings have been placed in the sand so far. They made a special meeting and a statement by the ministers on the case of Rosenstingl. It was about 120 million schilling. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Who we pay back!]] Blocking 3 billion Schilling However, they say: It's all not true, it's not that important! Ladies and gentlemen! Costs of 3 billion schilling mean that you will not get the tunnel in the next three years, but it will be finished at least after ten years. In the meantime, therefore, you also need to clean up and rebuild the old route so that it is suitable for more traffic. That means: We're going to have to expand twice. This is a grave for the billions of taxpayers, the climate, and all its successors. And we want to discuss this today. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The SPÖ has always resisted such debates – whether this was the "Lucona" or the DDSG. Until you were transferred to the bad business or treatment of taxpayers and the bad handling of taxpayers, you have never recognized criticism. In the case of DDSG, Vranitzky said only then, if nothing else is left: I take the political responsibility that half a billion people have gone down the Danube. - That's where the Austrian has something of it! We want to avoid further billions being invested in this hole, so to speak, and we have therefore made this request accordingly. This is also about the alternatives. What really prevents you from considering alternatives? They're just saying the South-East spange isn't all right. They always say that the Carinthian government in a memorandum called for the Semmering Base Tunnel. – That’s not true at all! I would like to read to you the current decision of the Kärntner Landesregierung of 21. March 1995 before: The responsible transport representative of the state government, Grasser, reports that he had been given the impression that "the climate of transport ministers had been allowed to talk about increased federal funding for rail noise protection in Carinthia if he had been given full support by Carinthia for the construction of the Semmering base tunnel." As a result, ÖVP Landesrat Luchugg said that he spoke out against any co-financing of the Semmering Base Tunnel in the face of the bad financial situation in Carinthia. – This is the ÖVP opinion. As a result, socialist head of state, Extraserwinkler, said that "the presentation of the line in the media caused excitement among the population in the affected areas". He would guess a more cautious way of doing things. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Look here!]] – So even a socialist believes that the entire Semmering Base Tunnel story has been broken a little over the knee! The Carinthian government also points out that the Semmering Base Tunnel will only be feasible in conjunction with the Klagenfurt-Koralmtunnel-Graz section of the South-East Sprange. So it's clear: The Carinthians want to have the Koralm Tunnel, the connection to Graz and the South-East spange, because that also gives us the...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00151_d7e1838	The final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00151_d7e1854	... and it is decided in the Carinthian state government that the Carinthian state government will at least expect the federal government to have the holdings in Carinthia before the construction of a Semmering base tunnel...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00151_d7e1875	Please put the final sentence to a close!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00151_d7e1890	I'm sure I'll be able to finish that. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] A Member of Parliament is treated so badly only by his own President!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00151_d7e1915	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00151_d7e1930	The Kärntner state government expects the federal government, before building a Semmering base tunnel, to reorganise the existing routes in the Kärntner Central Area, which will be runways to the Semmering Tunnel. So: Previously, clean up, talk about the construction! That is the decision, and this will have to be understood by the mayor of Arriach.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00151_d7e1966	Mrs Dr. Moser is also speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00151_d7e1988	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Longer due, but not here and now, but under serious circumstances, is a deep, comprehensive, substantial debate in this Parliament. We don't want to break over the knee à la: Semmering: yes, or no, in a night and fog action. Rather, a comprehensive, serious transport debate is urgently needed. This has long been the case, and we have been guilty of it for a long time to the public, those people who are partially in storage on a daily basis, who are sometimes sardine-like in public transport, who are partly also suffering from a massive deterioration in their quality of life. For the longer term, there is also a wide-ranging debate in this House on the truth of costs in the transport sector, in which the real figures must be put on the table and in which it will be made clear which billions of damage to road transport really causes us. That would be necessary! Now, of course, the Semmering Base Tunnel is being discussed. The Court of Auditors' report on this matter clearly confirms the errors that have been made in a number of ways in the planning, forecasting, in practice, in the nature of legal proceedings, in the nature of the call for tender, in the way in which the forecasts et cetera et cetera are extended. It is a whole litany of errors, it is a catalog of all kinds of sins that can exist if you go through a big project. The Semmering Base Tunnel has become a symbol of a missing transport policy, and I am pained by the fact that this symbol is a railway project. Because I would rather discuss the Semmering Rapid Road and what this construction puts on missing traffic policy signals. The Semmering Base Tunnel is apparently what the spirits are separating from in Austria. I personally don't think the Semmering tunnel is for the yellow of the egg. We also believe that a comprehensive development through a railway infrastructure is a priority in the run-up to an acceleration project. However, the Semmering Base Tunnel as such is a sign of how political mismanagement can lead to transport policy becoming a debacle. Today and now the hour has actually come when you should finally clean it up. You are right if you say that the Court of Auditors' report confirms a number of errors and failures. You are also right when you say that what was done here is a punch of first rank. I also see the approach to this project as a total flop. But I advocate that we finally discuss comprehensively and that, above all, we also question many road construction projects very, very critically. Of course, the Semmering Base Tunnel project now needs a reflection break. I fully endorse the recommendation of Mr President-in-Office of the Council. First of all, we need a serious balance of all alternatives. Only then can it be decided. At the earliest we need a Semmering debate in this House when the Constitutional Court has spoken its judgment. That's going to be 18th. ==References====External links== Then it's time to really deal with it comprehensively. Now only a pure foaming takes place in the public, so now is the wrong time. Although I am in principle opposed to the granting of time-limits, I think that a substantial transport debate in general is a long-term overdue one. There should be a deadline for this.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00151_d7e2034	No one is reporting on this. That concludes the debate. We shall now proceed to the vote, and I would therefore ask you to take the places. We are now voting on the request for the Transport Committee to report on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members. A period of time may be set by Members of Parliament, i.e. until the 15th century. ==References== If you would like to join this request, please give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. I can still make the announcement that, from now on, the President-in-Office should take place in about 30 minutes. So that would be at 8.40 p.m. I am now interrupting the meeting within the meaning of the decision of the Presidential Conference from late afternoon to 28. November, 0:00. The sitting was suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 8.09 p.m. and resumed at 28. Resumption of November 1998 at 0 am.)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00151_d7e2086	Ladies and gentlemen! I can ask you to take the seats. I'll take it on 28 November. At 10 a.m. on 10 November 1998, at the latest announced by the President-in-Office, the suspended meeting was resumed. Because of one in 149. Meeting of the National Council pursuant to § 67 para. We now come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members. Schweitzer and comrades concerning the failure of confidence towards the Federal Minister for Science and Transport pursuant to Article 74(l) of the Treaty. 1 B-VG. In view of the fact that such a decision is taken by the National Council in accordance with the provisions of the first paragraph of this paragraph, it is necessary that the Court of First Instance should rule as follows: 2 of the cited constitutional provision, which is necessary for the presence of half of the Members, I expressly note this quota required. It has been called for to vote in favour of a nameable vote. As this request has been supported by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. I am therefore going forward with this request and I declare that this vote should benefit from the votes held in the House of Deputies. They shall bear the name of the Member and the name "Yes" on the grey ballots or "No" on the pink-colored ballots. Only those official votes may be used for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I shall call on Members, in particular, to cast their votes into the urn provided. I am looking for those Members who are in favour of the motion for a resolution by the honourable Member. Schweitzer and comrades vote, "Yes" vote, and those who vote against to cast "No" vote in the urn. I now ask the writer, Mrs Reitsamer, to start with the name call, and she will then be replaced by Mrs Applebeck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00151_d7e2154	Thank you, Mrs. Writer. Did all the convoys vote? – This is obviously the case. The vote will end. The members of the House responsible for this task will now make the number of votes under the supervision of the guides. To this end, I am interrupting the session for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00151_d7e2194	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. 146 votes were cast, of which "Yes": 41, "No" voices: 105. The motion for censure is therefore rejected. According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be recorded in the Stenographical Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. [[By way of derogation from the announcement of the vote by President Dr. Fischer, the actual vote result is as follows: votes cast: 145; of which "Yes" votes 41, "No" votes 104.]] With "Yes" the Members voted: Apple beck, Aumayr; Bauer Holger, Blünegger, Böhacker, Brauneder; Dolnschek; Flylinger, Fischl; Gaugg, Count, Grollitsch; Haider, Haigermoser, Haller, Haupt, Hofmann; Young; Klein, Koller, Krüger, Kurzmann; Lauter; Madl, Marolt, Meischberger, Meisinger, Mentil; Nut trees; Of which: Partik-Pablé, Povysil, Preisinger, Pumberger; Rieß; Salzl, Scheibner, Schöggl, Schweitzer, Stadler, Trattner. With "No" the Members voted: Ablinger, Achs, Amon, Antoni, Auer, Bauer Sophie, Binder, Brinek, Brix, Buder, Bures; Cap; Dietachmayr, Donabauer; Eder, Edler, Ellwall; Fekter, Feurstein, Fischer, Friend, Frieser, Fuchs; Gaal, Gartlehner, Gaßner, Grabner, Gradwelt, Gredler, Großruck, Guggenberger, Hagenhofer, Heinzl, Hlavac, Horngacher, Huber, Hums; Jäger, Jarolim; Kaipel, Karlsson, Kaufmann, Doppelmüller, Khol, Kier, Kiermaier, Kiss, Konrad, Kopf, Kostelka, Krammer, Kukacka, Kummerer; Leikam, Delete Nak; Maderthaner, Maier, Marizzi, Mertel, Morak, Moser Gabriela, Moser Hans Helmut, Moser-Starrach, Motter, Mühlbachler, Müller, Murauer; Niederwieser, Novotny, Nürnberger; Oberhaidinger; Perfuss, Parnigoni, Pendl, Pittermann, Posch; Rada, Rasinger, Rauch-Kallat, Reitsmer, Riepl; Schieder, Schuster, Schwarzenberger, Schwemmlein, Seidinger, Sigl, Silhavy, Smolle, Stampler, Steibl, Steindl, Stippel, Stumpful; Tegischer, Tichy-Schreiter, Drinkl, Tychtl; For the purposes of this Regulation, Wabl, Wallner, Wimmer, Worm; Zweytick. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00151_d7e2374	I am still saying that Question No 5302/J has arrived at today's sitting. The next meeting of the National Council is for Friday, 4. On 1 December 1998, at 10 a.m. It will be convened in writing. [[Abg. May. Stadler: 9 a.m., Mr President.]] I'm correcting: We have today amended the original intention in the Presidency, and it has been agreed that the meeting should be held on 4 May. It will not begin at 10 a.m. on December 1998, but at 9 a.m. This meeting is closed.
