ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e4869	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to welcome you very warmly and ask you to take your seats because we will soon take two fishing talks. I'll open the 115. Meeting of the National Council. I declare that the official protocols of the 112. Meeting of 25 March 1990 ==References== Meeting of 26. They are therefore considered approved. As an obstacle to today's meeting, MEPs are Dr. Graf, Haigermoser, Jung, Ing. Langthaler and Dr. Mock. Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e4906	The Federal Electoral Authority has received the notification that the MEPs of Heidemaria Onodiund Mares Rossmann have waived their mandates and that Mr Anton Heinzlund Dr. Gerhard Kurzmannin has been appointed to the National Council in her place. As the electorate is present and the gentlemen mentioned are present in the House, I will immediately make their fishing observation. After reading the vow formula and calling for her name by the female writer, the new mandates will have to do their fishing with the words "I promise". I can ask Mrs Rosemarie Bauer, as a writer, to make the vow formula and call for the name of these two new colleagues. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e4945	"They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws as well as conscientious fulfilment of their duties." Mr. Anton Heinzl!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e4963	I promise.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e4979	Mr Dr. Gerhard Kurzmann!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e4994	I promise.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e5009	I very much welcome the two new colleagues in our midst. [[General condolences.]] Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e5037	For today's meeting – starting at 1 p.m. – the Federal Chancellor's Office issued the following communication on a resolution by the Federal President concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government: The Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs Dr. Schüssel will be represented by the Federal Minister Dr. Werner Fassleven from 1 p.m. Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e5066	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: Current issues of foreign policy For the reasons of this current hour or an introductory statement, Mr Dr. Khol spoke. According to the Rules of Procedure, his speaking time is 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e5098	Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The Government Agreement states: "In the light of the course of the EU Government Conference and developments in European security policy, the Federal Government will undergo a comprehensive review of all further security policy options, including the question of a full membership of Austria in the WEU, and report to Parliament on this by agreement of the Federal Chancellor, the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Federal Minister for State Defense before the adoption of the EU Presidency by Austria, but at the latest during the first quarter of 1998. [[Unrest in the hall]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] In accordance with the conclusions of this report, the Federal Government will submit proposals to Parliament for the necessary measures." Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Such a report is not available to Parliament. This means that an important part of our government agreement is currently not fulfilled. [[Abg. Wabl: Why not?]] Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Together with the Federal Minister for Defence, you presented this report, which contains the report on Austria's security, which contains your presentation of the situation of Austrian security and the options that Austria has. [[The speaker holds a red and white-red brochure with the title: "The report – Austrian Security" to the height]] I would like to ask you some current questions, which we believe should be asked about foreign policy. – Mr Vice-Chancellor! Why is there no option report? Would you please explain this to this House? We would also like to know, Mr Vice-Chancellor: What options exist for Austria, that is, what opportunities are there for Austrian security policy and how are they being assessed? And is there a joint assessment of the options of Austrian security policy? [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens.]] [[Calls and calls between the ÖVP and the Greens.]] [[Unrest in the hall.]] Mr. Vice-Chancellor! There have been long negotiations between ÖVP and SPÖ, and I hear that large parts – I think, of the 77 pages...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e5164	Mr. Dr. Khol, please. – Ladies and gentlemen! Especially in the early days when the first speeches are made here, but for other reasons too, it is often so disturbing that one cannot even hear the loud voice of the caller Wabl. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] I therefore ask for a little more attention! I call Mr Khol.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e5194	I have heard that much of this security report, which you, Mr Vice-Chancellor, have presented together with the Minister of State Defense - I think from 77 pages to a few paragraphs - has been coordinated with the government partner. I would like to hear what results are beyond dispute between the government parties. Mr. Party President of the Social Democrats has repeatedly spoken of a European security organization instead of the North Atlantic Defence Community. I would like to know, Mr Vice-Chancellor, how you and, for example, the governments of England and France can appreciate the possibility of such a European security and peace order without the Americans, without NATO, so to speak, a parallel organisation. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! I would also like to know if you have information on how, for example, the German Social Democrats judge the question of NATO and the question of future security policy. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Is that a question hour?]] Today, another Parliament is voting on the accession to the North Atlantic Treaty. It is the Czech Parliament, the representative of the Czech Republic, our neighbor in the north. The Czechs say, as a reason, that: We've learned from history! – Mr Vice-Chancellor! I would like to hear from you how you estimate the impact of this vote on the European security situation and, above all, on the Austrian position. Several politicians from EU Member States – I am reminded of Dutch Foreign Minister Van Mierlo – have spoken about "triggers". – How do you judge our policy from the point of view of European solidarity, Mr Vice-Chancellor? I would also like to know, Mr Vice-Chancellor – and with this I am already at the end of my questions: How were the accession costs assessed in the negotiations with the government partner in case of any accession to NATO? We have today tabled a legislative proposal to the Committee on Foreign Policy, on the grounds that we have received this option report. [[The speaker holds up the red and white-red report entitled "The Report – Austrian Security".]] In this legislative proposal, we propose that the competence of the Council on Integration be extended in relation to security matters. Ladies and gentlemen! The Council on Integration was formed many years ago. It includes not only the five parties but also the local authorities, the countries, the municipalities and the social partners. This Integration Council discussed everything that was necessary in the context of EU accession. We propose, with the legislative proposal submitted today, that this Council on Integration should also discuss the important issues of Austrian security, and I hope that the Social Democrats will be interested in such a forum, as Mr Fischer has already indicated in a press release. We have also tabled a resolution. In this resolution – it is an independent resolution and it is intended to be allocated to the Committee on Foreign Affairs – we clarify the objectives and explain why we need this forum. With this motion for a resolution, which we shall be discussing in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, we would like to ask the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, on all matters relating to security policy, to enter into an intensive dialogue with the relevant organizations and their Member States in agreement with the Federal Chancellor and the Federal Minister for Defence. With NATO, this should be done in the form of an intensified dialogue. This dialogue will provide Austria with the opportunity to discuss with NATO the full range of political, military, financial and security issues raised in relation to possible NATO membership. [[Abg. Scheibner: May we vote on this, Mr. Cot?]] However, these investigations should not prejudice the final Austrian decision. With these two proposals, we simply want to ensure that Parliament will advise on the question of security policy, which has not yet been finally resolved between the two parties of government, because we also have responsibility for Austrian security. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Freedom Party has announced that it will submit applications which are correct and which will force a vote on them. – Ladies and gentlemen! That wouldn't win anything. We want to convince our government partner and not to vote over. And for party politicians, we are not to have. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: How long do you need?! That's ridiculous!]] Our position is crystal clear. We put it on the table – just as the Greens put their options on the table, as the Liberals put their options on the table, and how the Freemans put their options on the table. Since the stock of commonness is large, we want to convince our social-democratic government partner on this issue and not overrule it. The issue of security in Austria is not suitable for party policy angle trains!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e5295	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). His speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e5316	Mr President. High house! In my opinion, I will confine myself to the subject raised by Mr Klubobmann Khol. If other issues arise in the discussion, I will take the liberty to address them in the course of the debate. The first question has been: Why was there no joint report of options, even though we wanted all the honest heart, as I mean? – The Federal Chancellor, the Foreign Minister and the Minister for Defence should present a coordinated report. This report, which largely corresponds to the report presented by Andreas Khol, is based on Chapter 5 and on the conclusions. – First of all, it is important to know that there is a broad basis for commons. It is not true that we are starting zero at the hour, but it was not possible to jointly formulate the concrete recommendation that would, of course, have been the heart of this recommendation report. I'd like to explain briefly what it was all about. First of all, I was not concerned with adopting a final decision, a decision on substance. The government can't do that either. In the end, this can only be done by Parliament, by the representatives of the people. But the time is ripe to hold a security debate in such a way that, before the ratification of the Treaty of Amsterdam and the adoption of the EU Presidency by Austria, it is clear what options the Federal Government will follow in terms of security policy. And it is essential that this clarity is created in the consciousness of the Austrian public. Secondly, Why Amsterdam? – The Treaty of Amsterdam is already before Parliament as a document, and today the Federal Government has decided – once again a common accord – to forward this Federal Constitutional Act on ratification to Parliament. This Treaty states that the EU and the Western European Union can merge. But it is also within that the Council, which was decided in Amsterdam, is already recommending that, when this decision is to be taken, the Member States should say a clear yes to the merger. That is to say, in this Treaty of Amsterdam, the clear possibility of the option of a desirable merger between the European Union and the Western European Union has already been observed. And with this, there is no dispute between the coalition parties – even now that the conclusions are not clear – that we want to be able to actively and actively implement this merger between the EU and the Western European Union in the future. It is clear, however, that, at the latest when solidarity is merged, it will be the supreme principle of security policy and will overshadow all the other principles of Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Third point. Andreas Khol asked: What about the European security structure? – I say quite clearly as my personal opinion as Foreign Minister – the partyobmann has no other opinion on this point – a triple yes to a stronger and, above all, European structure. The question is: Where will it come from? That is the final point. Is there a real option that this could happen outside the existing institutions – EU, WEU, NATO, OSCE – that a new European structure should be formed, or should it arise within the existing structures? – I am very clear to the House that this decision has, of course, long been taken: In June 1996, at the NATO Summit in Berlin, eleven of the fourteen EU countries voted in favour of the creation of this European structure within NATO. Andreas Khol rightly asked: What is the position of the other countries? – They, of course, also follow the clear line that one must remain within the existing structures. In view of the budget constraints that each country has, it is totally impossible to build a new, expensive parallel structure. This is of course – it was asked – also the position of the German Social Democrats, who, for example, when the Greens in Germany demanded to form such a European structure outside NATO, have clearly stated: If the Greens demand this seriously, they will not be eligible as a government partner. – So much about the specific question that has been asked. But I say very clearly: If we want a European structure, we must, of course, be aware that the weight of Europe depends on whether or not all the Member States have a common foreign policy and whether they are prepared, if necessary, to pay something for it, with their contributions to such a European structure, and not always to rely on the Americans ultimately to provide logistics, transport capacity, satellites and everything else. So that means: Yes, the European structure – but it will not be "out of the blue" anywhere in the abstract, but in the congregation of existing organizations: EU, Western European Union and NATO. Fourth: At this point I also say a very clear yes, a commitment to a transatlantic partnership between Europe and America. – Consider the times of crisis: Whether it be Bosnia-Herzegovina, whether Kosovo, whether it be the Middle East, whether it be Cyprus or whether it is the Iraq question – always the smooth interaction of the Americans and the politically and also militaryly allied Europeans is vital! That's why I'm saying: I do not want less America, but I want more Europe in the European security debate! That must be the goal – and also the goal of the partnership we want. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Fifth, you open a bottle We have carefully analysed several options, including, of course, the "PfP-plus". And there is a clear commitment by the two coalition parties to this partnership, to a deepened and expanded "partnership for peace" within NATO. However, we must be clear about what that is. I am not quite sure whether everyone is really aware that this "PfP-plus" of course also has a military core, namely the full involvement and the full willingness to cooperate with NATO in all peace-supporting operations, including, if necessary, fighting to restore peace. I am of course in favour, as is the coalition partner, and there can and will be situations in which Austria is ready for this solidarity. Does it make sense, however, that, although we are creating peace with NATO in Bosnia or Albania, we have no guarantee that we will be helped if, for example, a case of distress arises for ourselves? Does it make sense for us to take risks ourselves – which is necessary – in international peace operations, but cannot in fact decide where these operations are planned and decided to have no equal participation at all? I therefore believe that "PfP-plus" is good as an intermediate step, but certainly at best such an EEA security policy is not a substitute for a deeper security policy option. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I believe that efficiency and costs should be strongly focused on seventh and eighth. Switzerland – a study commission with all political parties – has clearly stated that the only efficient structure in Europe today is NATO. And that is why I say quite openly that it would be a serious mistake not to include this NATO as an option, as the first address of an option to be examined and to be followed in our further work. From the cost side it is clear: Together, security is cheaper. The cost contribution is estimated at between 700 and 800 million schillings, but it will have to be negotiated, but it will be around there. We are, of course, safer together. And these are, I think, very central arguments for such a follow-up option. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The last point – and I repeat it quite consciously, because it is sometimes washed up or blurted in the public debate – is: It is not and has not been a final, that is, a definitive decision in this option report. This is reserved for the people's representation and, at least, for the people. What it was all about is that the government is honestly putting their cards on the table and giving the population pure wine, which options can be followed in the future. I was concerned that the first address, namely NATO, should not be explicitly excluded from these security considerations. We would have meant that the necessary questions are correct – what does the quality of this new NATO look like? How much does that cost? What does this mean for the Austrian army and structure? Are there developments to involve Russia and Ukraine? What about strategic planning? What about the questions of membership? – to be defined and invented in an intensified dialogue. Unfortunately, there has been no agreement in this area. I regret that. The debate continues, and I am sure that in the end the better arguments will count.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e5434	For business treatment, Mr Mag. Stadler to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e5456	Mr President. High house! At the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Policy, of 19 December 1988, the members of the Arbitrators and Spindeleggers held a meeting of the Foreign Affairs Committee. A motion for a resolution on peace for Austria and Europe was tabled in February 1997. This motion for a resolution was then adopted in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and at the plenary session of 26. It was decided on 1 February 1997. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Business treatment! That's a speech!]] I can quote from the second part of the resolution: "In the light of the course of the EU Government Conference and of developments in European security policy, the Federal Government is also called upon to report on all further security policy options, including the question of a full membership of Austria in the WEU, in the light of a comprehensive review" – and now the central sentence, Mr President, "and the Parliament is still before the adoption of the EU Presidency by Austria, but at the latest during the first quarter of 1998." This quarter has 31 according to the calendar rules in force with us. March 1998 end. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: This is a speech and no business treatment!]] Now, Mr. Vice-Chancellor...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e5500	Deputies! I would ask for a request or a proposal to deal with business matters.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e5516	Mr President. You'll get two applications. The Foreign Minister has now made a very vague statement, which, of course, is not in a position to comply with this resolution. My first request would therefore be: According to § 18 para. 3 Rules of Procedure require that the Federal Chancellor be present in the House during these deliberations. I know that the Federal Chancellor is here, and he may therefore appear before the plenary if this is decided by the National Council. Secondly, Mr President, I would like to ask you about this request, which I have just tabled in accordance with § 18 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with section 59, para. 3 to be decided by the National Council to hold a short debate. I believe that the presence of the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany is urgently required in the face of Mr Foreign Minister's very polarist statements in the government.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e5559	Ladies and gentlemen! Both applications are permitted, both according to § 18 para. 3 as well as that according to § 59. I shall, of course, vote on the second motion, because it is a question of whether a debate is being held. The Hoge Haus may be requested as follows: Request by Mr Stadler, on a request to quote Mr Bundeskanzler according to § 18 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are taking part in a debate to give a sign of this. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. I put the second request to the vote. The second request is: The National Council may decide to request the presence of Mr Bundeskanzler in accordance with § 18 of the Rules of Procedure. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. Deputies! Would you like to make another request? - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e5617	Mr President. The procedure of the Federal Government, first of all in terms of content, does not comply with the resolution of the National Council, and in doing so the time limit – as we have just heard – will not at all comply with this resolution, is an incredible desavowing of the People's Assembly, the National Council, the democratically elected Parliament. I would like to ask you, Mr President, because of this procedure, for a brief interruption of the sitting and for the implementation of a special presidial.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e5644	Mr Stadler! We have voted in favour of half a dozen requests for the participation of members of the government, and if the National Council takes a majority decision, I have to respect them, as I think, and all the other Members too. Mr Spindelegger came to speak. [[Abg. May. Stadler: But never has a government so shamefully disregarded Parliament!]] Deputies! You have the right to vote or call for a vote, the National Council has the right to decide, and the President has the obligation to respect decisions of the National Council. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The government disregards Parliament's rights, and you do not mind!]] Deputies! I do not dispute with you from the Bureau. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's why I wanted a special president to give you an opportunity to justify yourself!]] Mr Spindelegger has the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e5700	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! We will have enough opportunity in this House to discuss security policy, because my group has also submitted this option report here. [[Abg. Scheibner: You must not vote on! That's the most ridiculous! That is the abuse of Parliament!]] We will have plenty of opportunity to talk to the Federal Chancellor about this too. Mr Stadler and Mr Scheibner. Your excitement is understandable. This current hour is being broadcast on television, but this does not alter the need for a security debate on our future in the matter of security policy. And that is why, I believe, we should now devote ourselves to this issue again and not to the process. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! If we allow the foreign policy of recent years to happen, it is probably quite right that, after a successful integration into the European Union, we now deal with the crucial foreign policy issue, namely the issue of security policy. Because let's look around us. Our neighbours are repressing NATO to build security stability for the next few years. Let us look at the crisis spots that we still have to see in Europe. Let's look at the Balkans. Ladies and gentlemen! If we look at the past few years there, we see that there has not yet been peace. After a terrible war in Bosnia, which was also a consequence of this painful separation of the former Yugoslavia, according to these cruel images that we all had to remember at the time, only one was decisive in terms of rest as a stability factor: This is and remains the international military presence. I fear that Bosnia will have another military presence for many years to come, otherwise a fire stove could break out and become a fire in the Balkans. If we look at Kosovo and the development there today, we see that we are probably only at the beginning of an argument that we are now called on to work against with all the means to ensure that there is a similar development to that in Bosnia. If we are aware of what our Foreign Minister said about it many months ago in Austrian foreign policy bodies, but also internationally, we must unfortunately note that exactly what he feared has happened. This conflict, which has not been taken so seriously by others, has now assumed an extent that international solidarity, as he mentioned, as well as pressure from institutions, must be exerted in order to bring about a stabilisation in Kosovo. I believe that the experience that has now been shown in the direction of following what has been proposed by the troika of the European Union, which has been proposed in the sense of the resolution of the Security Council with the voiced arms embargo, in the sense that the implementation of the contact group's measures can only prevent the fire of the land with a very consistent pressure in economic and military terms. I would also like to use this current hour, which concerns current foreign policy issues, to ask the Foreign Minister how he assesses the experience that Austria has made in the context of the Troika and thus as a crucial foreign policy member in the European Union, and the success measures that have been started there. I believe that this has really brought about a lot of things. I am thinking only of the fact that these measures have enabled Miloševic to enter into a dialogue, that this educational agreement has now been implemented and that the armed conflict that has already begun has been halted. I'd be really interested. I think we should learn a lesson from this. This teaching can only be that only a common approach with pressure can maintain peace in Europe. I believe that we are quite in agreement. Where we separate, that is the question of what this commonness can look like. My group has put a clear position on this. This heading reads as follows: In view of this NATO, which is now established as a new military alliance also in Europe, we should not only join, but also co-shape it.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e5735	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e5750	My final point is therefore, Mr President: Ladies and gentlemen! Let us not now be guided by daily topicality in security policy, but let us consistently think about the security of Austria! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e5780	The next speaker is Mr Kostelka. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e5802	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! In Austria, foreign and security policy has always been a consensus within the last 50 years. And I regret seeing evidence that our coalition partner is considering leaving this common consensus. I regret this on my own because not only does political reason speak against it, but also the constitutional regulation on which we all stand. The Federal Constitutional Law on Persistent Neutrality is an applicable constitutional law, even though some want to see it disappear in the taboo of history. Therefore, accession to a military pact – and this is the rule of NATO – is a condition for a two-thirds majority decision in this House. Ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party! Please note: We are not available for a policy to introduce NATO through the back door in Austria! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: How does it look with the front door?]] Mr. Vice-Chancellor! In this context, they have expressly stated that Austria should enter into an intensified dialogue with NATO. I can remind you of the negotiations you and the Federal Chancellor have conducted. We were ready for such an intensive dialogue not only with NATO, but also with all the other security organizations in Europe. But you have wanted one thing and made it the main point of the discussions: that this intensive dialogue should be based on the pursuit of membership. You have not accepted another form of conversation. We are not ready for a prejudication with the aim of bringing NATO into Austria through the back door! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Election Strategy!]] Mr Vice-Kanzler, Mr Khol, Mr Spindelegger and all the others from the Austrian People's Party! I call for more honesty in this context. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Ha, that's it!]] They say, except for three words, that the entire option report has been voted on. Today you said that everything had been in line with the conclusions in the option report. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: And chapter 5!]] I should like to point out to you that six chapters of respect for sub-chapter were not in agreement. And the most important point was that you just wanted to read one: We're following NATO entry! However, we have followed and proposed a wide range of security options in Europe with consideration, and that is why, ladies and gentlemen, because NATO is not a future concept. The 1949 NATO Treaty corresponds to the balance of terror. And joining a treaty, although this imbalance has been eliminated in Europe, does not correspond to our self-understanding. We want a European security organization and do not want to see the need to employ someone in Bosnia on the condition that a decision is taken in the Senate in America. Ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party! Let's take the sample to the example! For months we have been negotiating a Federal Constitutional Act for a nuclear-free Austria, whose § 1 is called: In Austria, nuclear weapons may not be manufactured, stored, transported, tested or used. I have here a copy with four signatures from Social Democrats. Mr Khol, if you are serious about all that you have said, put your signature fifth under this legislative text. Let's bring him in! If everything is available in this context, if nuclear stationing is available, if the question of costs and the stationing of troops is available,...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e5882	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e5897	... then, ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party, let's make this clear! Let us jointly introduce a Constitutional Bill on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e5928	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Haider. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e5949	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Klubobmann Kostelka pointed out that foreign policy had been a consensus matter in Austria for decades. That is true, but he has forgotten that the whole Parliament has understood that it has always been the attempt of the Austrian Federal Government to invite the opposition to a common foreign policy, which should, so to speak, give the small country an external voice. It's completely lost. This is even so far as this Austrian Federal Government is not even taking its own requests, which have been decided by a majority here in Parliament, seriously. Otherwise, it should have submitted the so-called safety or option report by the end of March. I really wonder what kind of democracy it is, what basic parliamentary attitude it is, if both the government and the foreign minister do not have to do with the fact that the obligation of the government and of the foreign minister is to present this option report at the end of March. Today, Mr. Vice-Chancellor stands up and says: So that you can make a contribution to the NATO question and to the security policy, let me explain something to you. You do not have anything to explain, but you have the damn obligation to order the Austrian Parliament, as it corresponds to the decision to present this report, Mr Vice-Chancellor! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Nothing else is going on here! If Mr Kostelka has said that there is a common basis lost and that neutrality is worth something, then I really ask you, Mr Kostelka, as it is then possible for you to be so much valued by neutrality that your party in the Federal Government has agreed to a government proposal from the Minister for Defence of the ÖVP that there is to be a common association of struggles between Austria, Hungary, Romania, Slovakia and the Republic of Slovenia – decided here, Council of Ministers, decided to make a decision – even with Slovakia, which is not worthy of being included in the NATO enlargement round with all the Communist countries. [[lively calls to the SPÖ]] The SPÖ agrees that this is not a problem for neutrality! I can only say: Hypocrites up to there is your whole defense policy! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] What is that supposed to be? The document is available. [[Abg. Arbitrators: For what purposes?]] Mr Schieder, do not excite yourself, but ask your fellow ministers why they have agreed to this, why they form a military association, why they mobilize against NATO, but at the same time agree that NATO pilots have been flying over Austrian territory for years and that Austrian executive bodies are involved in NATO operations under NATO command. [[Abg. Arbitrators: No, that's not true!]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: That's not true!]] Why don't you explain this to Austrians? This is a hypocritical policy up to that point, when you are talking about neutrality here, but on an international level, you are saying yes and amen what NATO requires. Where are the Austrian executive officers? Where is the Austrian army in the Balkans? – Under NATO intervention, under American Highness! Even the Austrian Federal Army is currently under investigation and supervision by NATO military. If that's still neutrality, then, I mean, you can say good night to your neutrality policy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That is why I say that there is really only a fair course of action. If you are unable to make decisions here in Parliament, ask the Austrian people. Why are you afraid to present this option report to the people and to say: Then let the people decide!Unknown term type: "%s".? The list of speakers in today's debate alone shows the following: Mr. Cap, who's for NATO, can't talk. So there seems to be no freedom of expression in the club. Give the Austrian people freedom of expression! Modify %s... They have the right to decide on their own security policy! If you're so sure that's so good, do it. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! I don't know what you're doing in the ÖVP at all. There seems to be the "silence of the lambs". Mr Khol must officially consult you because you in the party apparently no longer talk to each other, as you stand on the subject of security policy. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! You have the damn obligation to submit an option report here. That's what we criticize about you. Greatly speaking, you are in favour of a new security option, but then you do not fulfil the parliamentary obligations, that is the course of a unfaithful minister who does not enjoy the trust of the Austrian Parliament. [[indignant opposition to the ÖVP]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e6042	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e6058	That is why we ask you to make it clear to the Austrian Parliament.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e6088	Next word: Mrs Dr Schmidt. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e6109	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is a remarkable current hour that ÖVP has requested here. However, it has obviously used another instrument to prevent the real questions to the Foreign Minister by submitting a urgent request on the agricultural policy, knowing that the Liberals have prepared a urgent question to the Foreign Minister. We'll bring them in at another time. In any case, we would have brought them in – but I am also aware of the opportunity of the current hour to find out – to recall a quote as a description of Austrian foreign policy, a quote that Georg Ostenhof wrote in the "profile" last year, by putting his article under the heading: "Austria's lack of foreign policy is driving the country into insignificance." I agree with this finding. I do, however, agree, above all because I believe that the Foreign Minister has the main responsibility for this. I would like to try to establish this shortly on the basis of three examples: One is security policy, the second is European enlargement, the third is human rights policy. Security policy. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! You have also made it clear today that the term "option en report" would be a mistake for you, because you obviously only have one option. Obviously, you only have the option to go to NATO. You've long shown that's your idea. I agree with you that at least it would be a position. However, the way you are trying to achieve this goal is not one I think is right. I recall your speech at the time in Mons near Brussels, where you asked NATO to invite Austria to become a member. I remember your rather self-evident interpretation that neutrality and NATO membership would be compatible. I remember your reply in the main committee under the Treaty of Amsterdam, where you simply meant that NATO would be the security architecture in Europe. And you have actually said nothing else today, because you have formulated, you have to see where this security architecture will come from. That is to say, you not only make things happen, but you find yourself three and obviously no longer have a European vision at all. For even if you say that a European security system would be a concern to you, you want to achieve that, even for Austria, wrong priorities are set. First of all, we should become NATO members, and then we see how NATO resources and WEU are compatible with each other. I do not want to discuss – even because of the short time available to me – whether it would not be very possible to build a security system even without NATO resources. That's not the subject. We can talk about the WEU of NATO resources. But the most essential thing is before we even go on to ensure that European decision-making remains independent. And the force should be focused on it. We should not, as you would like, seek intensified contacts with NATO to enter first, and then we will continue to see. This is a question of the priority catalogue. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I do not want to say much more about security policy now, we will find other opportunities. Secondly, Enlargement of Europe. Foreign Minister! You said that Austria should be a vote for Europe, especially if we have the presidency. We have always seen ourselves as a bridge between East and West, we have always seen ourselves as a hub in the heart of Europe. All this was good for so long as we had the iron curtain. Hardly the Iron Curtain is gone, this thinking is over. Mr Schlögl wanted to start forcing Hungary to have a visa. Mr. Schüssel says: If not two thirds of Austria are declared a eligible border region, then we will not agree to such an extension, and this is really giving us the chance to be ridiculous. . Everything that seduces us to say, and rightly so, that Austria is the country in which the enlargement of the EU, as it is so beautiful, is at its worst. This is something you would have to avoid by pointing out that Austria is the country that benefited most from the opening of the East, in this case also the Burgenland, that this so-called East is also a growth market for Austria and therefore speaks not only of solidarity but also of political and economic reason for enlargement.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e6170	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e6185	The third point is the question of human rights. You have not only faced China in your human rights policy, but above all in your human rights policy have given Iran a blush that would explain...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e6203	Please put to the conclusion, Mrs Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e6219	... because a participant is now candidates for the highest office in the state, namely the Federal President. [[Lively calls:Ah! of Aha]] I think it's necessary...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e6260	The speaking time is over! The next speaker was Mrs Petrovic.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e6285	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Federal Minister! High house! Remarkably, a current hour on foreign policy is practically exclusively devoted to NATO, i.e. military and arms policy. This is a remarkable position for foreign policy in a country that was once very strongly committed to human rights, diplomacy and international compensation. Ladies and gentlemen, above all from Social Democracy! One thing is clear, which goal serves this current hour and also this insistence on NATO option. The Federal President's election decision in the House on Sunday will, if the ÖVP candidate Kletil wins this election, be interpreted as a NATO vote. You know that, too. This has already been tried at the Niederösterreich election, and this will be much clearer in this election, in this exposed candidate. It's on the posters: Democracy needs security. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: You stand for uncertainty!]] What is safe according to the views of the Foreign Minister and the presidential candidate is clear: Security is called NATO. I have looked very closely at the EIA Option Report. One thing is strange: As far as the threat scenarios are concerned, I must say, we are not far from each other. The ÖVP Option Report is literally on page 7: ethnic, national tensions, minority issues, setbacks in the CIS field, prosperity gaps, North-South relations, organised crime, drug trafficking, terrorist activities and unsafe nuclear power plants in close proximity. Ladies and gentlemen! I don't recognize any threat scenario against which NATO could do something. I do not recognise any threat scenario that could be prevented by the re-purchasing of NATO tanks, tanks, ladies and gentlemen of social democracy, worth about 6,000 million schilling, while we cannot raise 600 million schilling for kindergartens, for example, while, Minister of State, the New York cultural institute is being pushed to the long bank. Of course, you are also struggling with diplomacy for human rights in Kosovo, Kurdistan, in Tibet. It was they who spoke of the "bloss foots" and the "goats." They were your words. Obviously you don't want to look for the relations to the poor south, to the poor east. It is much more pleasant to go to church in the lightning thunderstorm with the powerful of the West or to organize other events. It is also, of course, difficult to talk about human rights with a presidential candidate who was actively involved in the concealment of the Kurdish murders as far as the investigation of the Kurds is concerned. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy! There is already a question of where a foreign policy is going – in my view – if it only understands itself as a defence policy and if it also rejects control in small areas, not only with the sintering tanks. Gentlemen of Social Democracy! For the NATO candidate Kle Styl? Federal Minister! Where are the 250 000 S which the ÖVP has branched off for the Klestil election leader Waldner? I find that particularly nice and significant. At around 250 000 S you can already make a nice feast for the ÖVP not so distant candidate, where it says: The physical well-being is provided. Apparently perhaps with these 250 000 S! I can only say, gentlemen of Social Democracy: Cheers! Meal!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e6331	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). The speaking time is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e6353	High house! Some clarifications that have become necessary in the course of the debate. First to Klubobmann Kostelka. I would like to say quite clearly: I would have been willing to start the intensive dialogue at any time, but of course only within the framework of these two possibilities offered by NATO. On the one hand, there is the possibility to declare itself as a member. This has been done, for example, by Hungary, the Czechs and the Poles. That is the definitive, definitive way. Or there is the second way to discuss membership issues without prejudicing. [[Abg. Scheibner: This is ridiculous!]] I have offered that we can go this way without prejudicing ourselves. However, I have refused to insert the sentence requested by the coalition partner: without the intention of becoming a member. That, please, can't be done. That would actually make us blaming internationally. Therefore, this formula, which was offered, was not a viable one. Second point: consensus, commonness. This is something very important, especially in a democracy. But – I say quite openly – there are certain limits. I can't sacrifice principles. The principle, the best of safety is just good enough for Austria, is so important to me that I do not enter into any lazy compromise, just so that any date is respected, but I want clarity. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is not right, Mrs Schmidt, that I have a single option in mind. We have honestly examined five options, including your favorite single membership of the WEU. She just doesn't work. After consultation with the European public firms, it is clearly stated that this is not a viable option. That is why we cannot take them into the final version. Of course, when accession comes, NATO and WEU and EU should ultimately be seen in an integral context. On the issue of NATO evaluation. There's something I can tell you: There is obviously still the idea that NATO is a weapon-restraint alliance from the Cold War and would be directed against human rights and against peace. Ladies and gentlemen! The opposite is the case! NATO is it and NATO tanks are protecting the refugees in Bosnia today. NATO soldiers and NATO tanks allow the return of refugees, from Croats, from Serbs, from Bosniaks, to their destroyed villages. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: The land is bleeding!]] NATO soldiers under NATO command enable the bodies buried in Srebrenica to be excavated. Not to see this means to be blind to today’s modern times! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Talk to the displaced! Do you have relatives who have been expelled? Ethnic cleansings!]] Who is hunting Karadýi% and Mladic and all the other war criminals? – Not the paper resolutions of the European Foreign Ministers – unfortunately, I say – are NATO soldiers who are constantly changing houses and looking for war criminals. This is very likely to have something to do with the question of human rights. I therefore believe that this new function of a European security alliance within existing organisations is something we should approach – without fear of contact, with great openness, but also with the courage to give the public pure wine. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: How many refugees did you talk to? With how many "bloss feet"?]] One point on Mr Schmidt's question of the insignificance of foreign policy. Please, I think everyone can make a picture of this. We held the Presidency in the Central Initiative in 1996 for the first time. We are applying for the presidency in the OSCE and have already won 30 out of 53 Member States. So we'll make it. We are currently taking over the Presidency in the European Union. We are fighting for a border region programme to be implemented. I say yes, this is a positive message for the people, and I have the courage to demand such a thing without making myself ridiculous to the other European member countries. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Why does the government disregard Parliament's mandate?]] We are the ones who have organised a Christian-Islamic dialogue. We are those who have conducted a human rights dialogue that has made a round table on the issue of human rights in Bosnia-Herzegovina. We are the ones who will hold a dialogue with China on human rights in autumn. I was the first foreign minister in Europe to act in Tibet and then discussed human rights issues with the Chinese Foreign Minister and Vice-President for three hours. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Where in Tibet?]] I have no reason to be ashamed of Austrian foreign policy.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e6481	The next speaker is Mr Schwarzböck. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e6502	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Schmidt quoted Hoffmann-Ostenhof from the "profile" and meant that Austria's foreign policy is driving the country into insignificance. Mrs Schmidt! It seems that you are driving the requirements of the Federal Presidency election campaign into currency, because in exactly two and a half months, on Wednesday, the 1. In July, Austria will take over the Presidency of the Council in the European Union and thus face one of the biggest foreign policy challenges. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: That's no merit! It's routine! Everyone's coming!]] In this way, I believe, you have clearly shown that, in relation to the requirement of the highest office in the state as regards foreign policy competence, you seem to be refusing to do so. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mrs Petrovic, in a historically significant period of European policy, expects the budgeting of the common security policy to be a vision for Europe against kindergarten millions. Mrs Petrovic! Especially because we in Austria – and I say as Lower Austria: also in my home country – have achieved international role models in childcare and kindergarten financing, we have so high security needs in this country because we have more to defend than others. Many envy us just about what we are developing in security needs. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] But in one thing, I'll give you the following: The issue of the common foreign and security policy is an important part of the European vision. That's what we're going to do on the 1st. Taking on board the very, very important decision-making steps towards enlargement and Agenda-making under the Austrian Presidency on July, it is basically making a further essential contribution to this European vision, which has led to accession. And I am convinced that on this issue too, we can bring in a great deal of Austrian political tradition, which will enable us to handle this responsibility perfectly. The Vice-President said that he did not assume in the security policy that the American position would be weakened, but that the European position should be strengthened. And I assume, above all, that under our presidency, we can make the areas in which our country has great tradition and experience understand many other representatives of the Member States of the European Union. We have a lot to do with this Europe because of its proximity to enlargement candidates and because of its cultural and political and historical development, and we also have a lot to do with the important steps of the Agenda negotiations. I also add a lot of agricultural competence as a farmer. Austria has a lot to do with the different aspects of the programme, which we have to unite here in Europe. I am personally happy that we were able to negotiate our accession in time for the enlargement process with our eastern neighbours and, as a young member country, we are already able to bring experience into the European Union, not only in the interest of our country, but also in the interest of a meaningful development of this European continent and of a high level of partnership and solidarity. I am convinced that, at a very important stage, the Austrian Presidency in particular can be a significant addition to European development. In the end, our country will benefit from our responsibilities. I am personally certain that we are very well equipped, both in terms of subject matter and in terms of human resources, to be able to meet one of the greatest foreign policy challenges of the last decades positively for our country and for the common Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e6554	I would like to interrupt the meeting briefly and ask the five club chairmen to come to me.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e6578	I'll start the interrupted session again. We continue in the speaker list. This is what Mr Arbitrator has to say. Same time of speech. - Please. 11th@item: inlistbox 11
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e6610	Mr President. Federal Minister for Finance! Mrs. State Secretary! Foreign Minister! The debate we are having today is, in my opinion, comprehensible in some respects; it may perhaps be deliberately misunderstandable by some, at least misunderstandingd by the audience or audience. The question raised by the Foreign Minister is: Who actually hunts Karadýi%?, that is, the question of NATO's activity, is not the question of NATO accession. Also the claim made by Mr Haider: There Austria already exercises with NATO, there sometimes NATO aircraft fly over our country! is not automatically the question of neutrality. [[Abg. Scheibner: What?]] Because it depends on who ordered the respective bet. It is important whether it is on behalf of the UN or the OSCE or whether it is decided by NATO itself. [[Abg. Scheibner: Where does international law stand?]] The Austrian attitude is: In the case of UN operations, as well as in the case of disaster operations, a yes to cooperation and to preparation with others – including NATO – which concerns us as social democrats, it is not the joint action with NATO for the UN or with disasters, but the concern that we are concerned about is that NATO will not act if it decides on the UN, but that it can also take action before the UN has even had the opportunity to deal with a matter. We are concerned that, because an aircraft or a ship was attacked in the Mediterranean or north of the whirlwind of cancer, a war against this country is waged, using a UN law, before the UN has dealt with it, and that the decision is not taken by the international community, but by an alliance. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haider]] That's our concern, Minister. It is not a question of working with NATO on operations. This is what we are doing, we will continue to do when it comes to UN operations, OSCE operations or the EU as well as disasters. Of course! It's about: In addition, should we be in an alliance that decides for itself when there is a war in certain situations, without the UN having been involved? – And this is the misunderstanding that lies here! Ladies and gentlemen! The main issue of the security debate is what Europe's future security policy should look like. The Foreign Minister is pleased to have become a European security policy. We Socialists want to make security policy in Europe even more a matter for the EU. Of course, Europe still needs NATO for some time, of course nothing goes without NATO today, but in the future this Europe will develop its own security policy component. A Europe that has a common currency, a common passport, a common border police force, and in many things becomes a state, should defence policy be left to individual members or NATO? – That cannot be the future, that cannot be the vision of Europe. Our vision of Europe is that security policy too will be a European issue, an EU matter, of international law! [[Abg. Scheibner: Then it would be!]] That is what we are entering into.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e6687	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e6709	Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schieder! It was interesting that you have argued your problems with NATO differently today! So far, you have always referred to Article 5, namely the obligation to assist, as your problem and that of your group. [[Abg. Arbitrator: The 6 is the 5th edition!]] Article 5 includes the assistance obligation in the event of an attack on a Member State. You are right to withdraw from this argument. This Article 5 is the brackets of the Alliance, it refers to the interest that we must have in such an alliance membership. For then, when we need the alliance, the help of the State community, when it comes to our security, we also want to be able to resort to this alliance. That is the meaning of such membership. You have the right to change your argument on this point. Only, Mr Schieder, what you are proposing against the membership of the Alliance is not quite clear either. I believe that Mr Kostelka is still under arrest in the mind of the eighty-eighties, that he does not want to inform himself at all. But you are informed, you are an foreign politician, and you know that out-of-area operations that do not concern the case of alliance will only be made if they have been previously decided by the UN. Therefore, your concerns, as you know very well, have been resolved and completed for a long time. There's no such thing as that. On the other hand, and not explained by you, the matter is with CENCOOP. I really do not understand why, if one has concerns of a democratic nature, one wants to join the "evil" NATO alliance, at the same time as one wants to equip a fighting brigade with Eastern European countries and explains to the people that this is compatible with neutrality. Mr. Schieder! You said we should look at the stakes. Now, if we look at the actions of this fighting brigade, we find humanitarian operations – beautiful and good – peace-keeping operations – beautiful and good, but also peace-building and peace-making operations, Mr. Co. Schieder, against the will of the parties. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] Of course! Read the report of the Minister of Defence! It mentions peace-making measures under the CENCOOP, together with Slovakia, which does not belong to NATO's enlargement round for democratic reasons. [[Abg. Arbitrators: He wrote me a letter that it was not so!]] Mr. Schieder! Read the "Letter of Intent", also read the lecture by Minister Fassleven. [[Abg. Arbitrators: He wrote me a personal letter that it is not so!]] Mr. Schieder! They also confess to the "PfP-plus". "PfP-plus" also contains peace-making measures! [[Abg. Arbitrators: He has written to Me a letter that it is not so! Fassleven, 16. February!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: That's how it is in the coalition! There's one to put the other one!]] How can you explain to someone that it can be compatible with neutrality to implement peace-making measures against the will of the parties to the dispute in the countries concerned? That's what we blame you for: They insure people against better knowledge with such misinformation. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Tell us clearly and clearly that there are two options for our country: Either we remain bond-free, that is, we are placed on ourselves to guarantee our security for the long term. In this case, however, you also have to say clearly and clearly what it costs, because you have broken the federal army in the last decades. [[Abg. Wabl: It is not just about two options!]] Look What has always been the case as an example of Sweden or Switzerland in the last 40 years has been investing in its national defence! – Or we are joining an alliance of the State community, in which, as with insurance, we can ultimately ensure the protection of the entire state community and also of our country with a small contribution. Ladies and gentlemen! The options are clear. I do not understand that the government, which started years ago to solve the major problems in this country, cannot even include these clear options in a report. Mr Foreign Minister, it is not a matter of discussing it even further and of clarifying anything with NATO. The options are clear. We call for decisions, Mr Foreign Minister. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If you cannot make these decisions in the government, this Parliament will decide. It is also a misuse of Parliament to make proposals which, although debated, may not be decided, because you have expressed in the government that there can be no decisions in Parliament against your intentions. If you cannot decide in Parliament, let the people vote on this important question. It will make a right decision on this issue if there is the relevant information. In fact, you would have the task of quickly bringing such naturalities to the stage so that you can deal with the problems that concern the people at the moment and acutely, such as the question of jobs, education policy...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e6839	Please put the final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e6854	You are trying to use this debate on security policy To cover your failure in all other important areas.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e6884	The next speaker is Mrs Dr. Martina Gredler. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e6909	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! [[The Deputy Chancellor, Dr. Schüssel, is in a conversation with a member of the government.]] I am sorry if I do not start right away, but I would like to address my comments to the Federal Minister and therefore also to have his attention. Mr. Khol! They have said that the Czechs had said that they had learned from history, also in relation to NATO accession, which is being discussed in Parliament there today. Fortunately, we have had a different story than the Czechs. Fortunately, we did not have to live through the strenuous time that the Czechs have spent. But that's no reason to join NATO. On the contrary: An identity in the defence structure at European level would be the right means! But that, Mr. Khol, you're asleep! You said we should perceive the option of NATO accession as reality. This option is only based on the fact that there is no common foreign and security policy in the European Union. To achieve this would be a first step! The Foreign Minister could rightly adorn his head with feathers if we managed to establish a common foreign and security policy in the European Union. A common foreign policy would then be seen in the package with the WEU. That there is also a "navel cord" to NATO, I do not want to dispute at all, but I do not think we should strengthen NATO, but rather use European independence to carry out security and foreign policy considerations together: within Europe – and without having to ask Mr Clinton. [[Acclaim at the Liberal Forum and Abg. Arbitrator.]] An independent path requires courage. It also calls for courage to announce that we simply see our security better guaranteed than through another security pact – even though the majority think differently! Ladies and gentlemen! We should have discussed the issue of the current hour in the last month. I understand that the EIA calls for this, since this party is obviously unable to pursue a reasonable government policy together with the SPÖ. The same happened in the technology discussion. What happened? - A technology debacle! Now there is obviously a security-political debacle. Mr Khol proposed to the Council for Integration on the question of which body these concerns should be discussed. The Council for Integration would be a very good instrument if the Federal Government only used it more often. We have a National Defence Council, Mr. Khol. I would recommend that you perhaps discuss this in extenso, because this Council is actually responsible for it – and less of the Council for Integration. On the comments of Mr Kostelka: He said that there had been a disaggregatement on six capitals and sub-chapterships and that the conclusions had not been agreed either. – I ask you: How long do we have to wait until there is consensus in the government? Or do we need new elections? Is this what you wanted to say with your remarks: that we actually need new elections so that we can discuss the security structures of Austria in a relaxed way? Now I come to the human rights issue, which is very important to me. You, Federal Minister Schüssel, have been famous to be the first foreign minister in Tibet. Foreign Minister! Were you the Tibetan in Tibet or were you the Chinese in Tibet? Were you in Tibet those people who are in prison for religious creeds, for open debates, for an education in their own language? Were you in those monasteries where the nuns are attacked and raped by the Chinese military every month? Did you talk to people like that? Did you talk to the Chinese Advocate General in Tibet, as I did to the former? I have been talking to him for hours, which is to enable open debates and also to act in an inclusive way. Or have you visited the Potala because it is such a nice place for tourism?
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e6958	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Kammerlander. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e6980	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! This is a considerable current hour, I must say. It is a desperate turnaround of the EIAs to save what it has not done in the party negotiations, namely the presentation of its options in foreign and security policy. [[Abg. Großruck: We don't need your teachings!]] That's how it seems to me! You will, of course, at the same time benefit from the fact that in a few days' time, the Federal Presidency elections are taking place and that, if anyone has not noticed – but I think it has already been noticed anyway – we have a Federal President who has long since intervened in debates between the parties to ensure that Austria should become a member of NATO as quickly as possible. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: (the Greens' Report on Options) And what is that?]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Your option report is brown, ours is red-white-red!]] You can keep both options up to date. With our option report, we were not only about a trace faster than you, but we did what you did not do in the government, because we showed all the options and also evaluated them. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: We did that too!]] Why you didn't succeed, you probably know better yourself. Above all, we have also presented the potential for danger in Europe, and we can also talk about it, but certainly not in five minutes in the current hour. I know the answers from Minister Schüssel. He says that NATO has done everything, and the sentence is that NATO has created peace in Bosnia, in Yugoslavia. [[Vice chancellor Dr. Schüssel: Yes!]] She didn't create peace, she made a ceasefire. [[Complementary of the Abg. Dr. Petrovic.]] We are far from peace, but that is exactly what you do not want to take note of. Foreign Minister! I just want to make a comparison before you start your engagement in the OSCE again. The OSCE has a budget that is only one-fifth the size of NATO's political apparatus alone! This clearly shows the existing imbalance, and this also shows what you place weight on. The whole talk about preventive and peaceful measures is of no use, as long as all the money, all the means, the know-how and intelligence go into the area of the military apparatus. But just put the heavy weight on it, and everything else fades into a lip confession. Yesterday, in my opinion, in the television debate of the presidential candidates, a good comparison was made by the presidential candidate Knoll. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Großruck: Werbung! This is the "security policy" of the Greens! We don't need them any more!]] If Kletil is pasted – you can take this as an example! – "Democracy needs security", I believe it is absolutely right to point out that security also needs democracy. It would have been a good thing to have here in this Parliament the debate about the democratic conditions for a common foreign and security policy in Europe, rather than the creation of sites that really surprise me. I should like to point this out. I will show you a sheet in which politicians from the SPÖ, the ÖVP and the FPÖ find themselves, and this seems to me to be a small advance, which will flourish at the latest after the next National Council elections, namely, an alliance of a bourgeois, right, conservative block not only for a federal president who stands for NATO, but also for a NATO accession – no matter how the options look, no matter how the threat images look. [[the speaker keeps a magazine up to date]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Member of the Arbitrator! You do not believe that what you have said here is that participation in the "Partnership for Peace" in the "PfP-plus". They favour it as a compromise variant, and the accession to the Western European Union, the German Chancellor's climate has always made it sound like nothing at all, and the over-flight permits have nothing to do with neutrality at all. What you are doing there – supported by the Foreign Minister and the President of the Federal Republic of Germany at the top – is nothing but removing neutrality in the form of a salamitactic disk for disks. You yourself have agreed when we adjourned the agreement on the stationing of foreign troops, the so-called SOFA agreement, because there are some unexplained questions that affect the neutrality affecting the federal constitution of Austria, so that it cannot be decided. You know very well that you say something you do not actually represent. But it seems that you are already preparing the place in a common cannon boat by supporting the candidate of a President who is clear to this option.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e7121	The current hour is over. Mr Stadler has reported on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e7145	Mr President. § 97a para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure provide that the first speaker shall have 10 minutes of speaking time at a current hour of the founders. Then it goes on to say literally: "The competent member of the Federal Government or the member of the Federal Government within the meaning of § 19 para. The Secretary of State shall be obliged to deliver an introductory opinion on the matter which shall not exceed 10 minutes.' – Mr Vice-Chancellor did so in his capacity as Foreign Minister. § 81 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure: "On statements by members of the Federal Government... a debate will take place immediately if this is requested in writing by five Members." The Foreign Minister – I suppose, not in his role as Federal Minister of the Austrian People's Party, but in his capacity as Vice-Chancellor – then on request – I have seen this – made a statement which contained the position of the Austrian Federal Government on the disputed NATO question. Mr President. We asked for a debate to be held on this statement which Mr Vice-Chancellor wanted to make and then also that it should be debated. The written request is before you, Mr President. I would ask that this question, which has now been raised, be that of whether this desire is being met or not, whether we are still organizing parliamentaryism here or not, now hold a special presidential meeting. In my opinion, Parliament is being disregarded and the resolutions of this House are no longer taken into account by the Federal Government, since the Federal Chancellor does not appear before this House, I thought it a scandal if one should not even debate the statement of the Deputy Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e7184	First of all, I should like to point out that, as Mr Stadler said, there is a desire to have a debate on a statement by the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs. I have to consider whether the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs has made a statement. The following shall be referred to the question of the explanation: "Members of the Federal Government are entitled to make oral statements at the meetings of the National Council.... In such a case, the member of the Federal Government shall, as far as possible, make known his intention to the President of the National Council before the beginning of the meeting." – This has not happened. [[Abg. May. Stadler: "As far as possible"!]] The words "as possible" refer to the date "before the beginning of the meeting". – It is also possible, in exceptional cases, to request this during the session, as can be read in all the comments on the Rules of Procedure of the National Council. – "The President makes it known to the National Council" – and this has not happened – "and determines at which time the statement will be made during the meeting." – What could not have happened at all. "If the President's decision is raised against the date of the declaration, the National Council shall decide on the date without debate." – In so far as the text of the Rules of Procedure is concerned. There are more words available to me. Mr Dr. Khol spoke on business. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e7215	Mr President. The Rules of Procedure clearly distinguish between a statement made by a member of the government on a subject under discussion – this is governed by § 19 para. 1, according to which members of the government can speak at all times, and these are statements of speech – and statements by the members of the Federal Government on an issue that is not on the agenda, which will be the subject of the agenda, on which there will be a debate. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You want to abolish Parliament! That's all!]] It is therefore two basic things, which should also be known to a moderate adept of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e7254	I call Mr Kostelka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e7275	Mr Stadler! I admit that all of this is a bit complicated. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You want to abolish Parliament! That's all!]] You yourself have pointed out in your speech that according to § 97a para. 6 the Federal Minister responsible is obliged to deliver an introductory opinion. The reference "introductory opinion" implies that it can also deliver further opinions. Such a person has been delivered by Mr. Vice-Chancellor, and you cannot make this statement on a declaration within the meaning of § 19 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure – a statement that is in need of form. The President of the Council has expressly stated to you, with very specific words and reservations, that such a formal statement does not exist. I believe that this should be understood slowly by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e7327	Mrs Petrovic has spoken. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e7348	Formal is certainly a question of whether one or more comments can be made within the current hour of the Federal Ministers and whether a statement can be made in the context of a current hour and whether it should be explicitly referred to by the President as such. I believe that this is not the case, because it could consistently come so far that, within an hour on the subject of foreign policy, the Foreign Minister has made a statement on something and that Parliament cannot react to it in any way. This is, in my view, an interpretation of the Rules of Procedure which cannot be. That is to say, I plead for a material interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, and allow me to add that the whole, in material terms, was at all an abuse of the Rules of Procedure and of the current hour, because that was the purest propaganda of the ÖVP for NATO accession and for the presidential election campaign.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e7388	Mrs Dr Schmidt came to speak.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e7409	It seems to me that the background to Mr Stadler's speech is clear. As no applications can be submitted at a current hour, but it is known that FPÖ wants to make a request for the nuisance of the ÖVP, it sees its skin floating and now wants to rework a debate. I think the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, as interpreted by the President, is clear: Since no explanation was desired, there can be no one either. The National Council has not received a notice of this, which is why there can be no debate on it either. I think it's the FPÖ's kitten.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e7444	Mr Stadler! You have announced that you will make a further request for a debate. That hasn't happened until now. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Your decision is still outstanding!]] - Yes. I make the following decision, ladies and gentlemen: According to the Rules of Procedure, there are two "rails" on which a member of the government can speak in the context now relevant. The one "rail" is § 97a Abs. 6 of the Rules of Procedure, according to which it is said that, during the current hour, the competent member of the Federal Government is obliged to deliver an introductory opinion on the matter which should not exceed 10 minutes. I have Mr. Vice-Chancellor Dr. Cush expressly for an introductory opinion the floor which he has also given – subject to obligation! It shall be bound by this introductory opinion. It is also stated in the Rules of Procedure that speakers should not speak for more than 5 minutes in the further debate. Among these speakers is also a member of the Federal Government. Mr Schüssel spoke in the course of the debate during the current hour, and his second speech was closed at the clock at 5 minutes, and in the Stenographical Protocol it will be read that this speech took 5 minutes. [[Abg. May. Stadler: 10 minutes!]] The other "rail" is that members of the Federal Government can also report on items which are not under negotiation for the presentation of declarations. The President of the National Council shall be informed of the intention to make a statement. This must be communicated to the National Council, and the time for the declaration to be delivered must be determined, with no time limit being fixed. It is all in favour of including Mr Foreign Minister's speech in the first category, namely the current hour's opinion and the current hour's speech, and not as a statement by a member of the government in accordance with § 19 para. The Commission's proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to restrictions on the use of certain dangerous substances in the motor vehicles sector (COM(88) 588 final - C3-357/93) Therefore, a statement by the Foreign Minister within the meaning of § 19 para. 2 not available, and therefore the request for a debate is not permitted. This is my decision, and the current hour is over. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Business treatment!]] Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e7507	Mr President. They have done quite right that a member of the Federal Government can make a statement on a subject which is not under negotiation. This is what Mr Vice-Chancellor has done in his Attribute as representative of the Federal Government here: He made a statement on the resolution which Parliament adopted in February of the previous year, namely the non-existent option report here. That's what he did. You can read this. We've been paying special attention! It was to be expected that, under the title, which was today the subject of the current hour, namely "current issues of Austrian foreign policy", it would in fact be a surrogate for this resolution. That is why, Mr President, I am looking for Once again, the real desire which I have already put in my first speech, namely that of interrupting a session and calling for a special presidial, which is precisely to address this question, but at all, the question of meeting the Federal Government with Parliament, namely scandalous encounter, is to follow. Mr President. I would ask you to make a decision on this, and I would also ask you to allow my request for a short debate or to put a short debate to the vote on the request for implementation. 11.4 4
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e7538	We are now voting on Mr Magnette's request. Mr Stadler on a short debate on the matter of the Rules of Procedure which he has referred to. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are voting in favour of this short debate, are a sign of this. – This is the minority. Mr Stadler! Secondly, I would like to point out that: I have, as the House has seen, interrupted the sitting, and I have asked all the members of the assembly to discuss this question of Rules of Procedure. You, Mr Stadler, have not departed from your Rules of Procedure, but I, as President, cannot go down to handling the Rules of Procedure as it is to be done in the light of the clear wording of the Rules of Procedure. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You can clarify this in a special presidial, right?]] – The President's Rules of Procedure, and for me this question is a clear question. On the other hand, you are right to have a truly thorough debate on the question of the fulfilment of a motion for a resolution in connection with the option report. I am prepared to put this question on the agenda for the presidential meeting this week and to hold this principle debate, but I do not think that we should now interrupt the plenary session and keep the House waiting to discuss the principle of how the House will react if a resolution has not been fulfilled, during an interrupted plenary session. I would ask you to accept my intention to put this question on the agenda for the next presidential meeting. - That's how we dealt with this issue. I would like to thank Mr Vice-Chancellor. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e7577	I declare that in respect of the items obtained and their allocations according to § 23 para. 4 the Rules of Procedure have a written statement in the House. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e7756	Mr Schwarzböck and Mr Comrades requested that the written question (4023/J) put to the Federal Minister for Agriculture and Forestry on Agenda 2000 be dealt with urgently before the entry into the agenda. Under the terms of the Rules of Procedure, this urgent question will be called at 3 p.m. Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e7782	I would also like to inform the House that Mr Scheibner has asked the Foreign Policy Committee to report to the Council on the motion for a resolution 152/A (E) on the opening of negotiations with the Contracting Parties to the North Atlantic Treaty on the accession of Austria to the NATO Treaty for a period of time until 11. In May 1998, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws of the Member States relating to the Member States of the Member States relating to the Member States of To this end, there is also a request made by five Members to hold a brief debate on this request for a deadline. As the urgent debate has just been announced and requested for today's sitting, the short debate will take place following the debate on the urgent question and the vote on the request for a deadline will take place immediately after the appropriate debate. Announcement of an application for the establishment of an investigative committee
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e7810	In addition, Dr Gredler, Wabl and Comrades, according to § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure requested an investigative committee to examine the political responsibility of the Federal Government and suspected illegal influence by political agents in connection with the investigations on the murders of three Kurds on 13 March. July 1989 and the persecution of three of these suspects. In addition, there is a proper desire by five Members to hold a debate on this request. According to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, this debate will be held after completion of the agenda. We are now going into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e7840	The President-in-Office of the Council agreed on the design and duration of the debates throughout the agenda. Accordingly, a day-block speaking time of 8 "Vienna hours" has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ 120 minutes, ÖVP 112 minutes, Freedom 104 minutes, Liberal Forum and Greens each 72 minutes. Is there any objections to this proposal? - That's not the case. Then the House approved this proposal. 1. Point First reading of the Government template concerning the Federal Finance Act for 1999, including investments (1100 and 1100 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e7873	==References== The agenda for today's meeting is the first reading of the Government's draft on the Federal Finance Act for 1999 and its Annexes. Mr Edlinger originally wanted to speak at the beginning of this debate, but I have been asked to ask the Federal Minister whether he should first hear the first five speakers of the political groups of the parties represented here in the House. The Federal Minister agrees. That is why I would ask you to delete the first speech and give the floor to Mr Dr. Novotny as the first speaker.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e7900	Mr President. High house! For us, as the President said, there is a special situation at this first reading. On the one hand, we are talking about the 1999 budget, but on the other we are dealing with the convergence reports and the next steps towards economic and monetary union. These convergence reports have now been published, and the Minister of Finance will comment on this during the debate. In both areas, the budget and the monetary union sector, Austria can have significant successes. A deficit ratio of 2.6 percent is set for the 1999 budget. In my personal opinion, it will be lower, we can probably expect more than 2.3 percent, and accordingly there will also be a significant decrease in the public debt ratio. That is to say, we can say that this is a solid, serious budget. In this context, I would like to thank all Austrians for their understanding. You know that long-term solidarity is far more important than short-term promises! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] High house! I would particularly like to thank the Minister for Finance and the Minister of Economic Affairs for their work. It can be said that we have a team with them in the field of economic policy in Austria, which stands for stability and solidity in finances. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Peter: This is a jubilation you give here!]] I would like to thank not least the officials who have been involved in this budget and who have shown great commitment. Especially in times like this, it is not unimportant to appreciate the performance of officials for our state and for the public budget. So thank them too! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The success of these efforts is directly reflected in the second theme of this day, namely in the Convergence Reports of the European Monetary Institute and the European Commission and in the report of the Austrian National Bank. I would like to quote from the report of the European Commission, in which it states on page 27: After assessing the fulfilment of the convergence criteria, the Commission considers that Austria has achieved a high level of sustainable convergence. In other words, Austria is clearly qualified for monetary union. It is even more important to me that this is reflected in the following: This improvement is not only a short-term, but a permanent one! There are, of course, also problems – I will deal with them later on – but we have to say very clearly: In recent years, success has been achieved in Austria – and also in the whole area of the EU – which is a permanent basis for a favourable economic development. We can already record relevant data for Austria today. Economic growth will rise significantly – after a phase of reduced growth – and we expect to reach 2.7 percent in 1998 and 3% in 1999. At the same time, inflation with an expected value of 1.2 percent in Austria is not as low as it has been for a long time. And even if the labour market continues to worry us, we must see that there are significant improvements there too. According to recent forecasts by the Institute for Economic Research, employment has already increased in 1997. In 1998 and 1999 we can expect an increase in the number of self-employed workers by about 1 per cent each, i.e. around 30 000 people per year are also employed in Austria. [[Abg. May. Trattner: Have you not read the Federal Finance Act?]] Unfortunately, it is also true that despite this increase in employment, the unemployment rate does not decrease. That is to say, we are facing the phenomenon that in Austria, higher numbers of employees are currently not associated with lower rates of unemployment. This is an indication that labour market problems are becoming more and more dependent on structural components. This is therefore the subject addressed by the National Employment Programme. I am very glad that a solution has been found for this. The objectives of this programme, which must be said very clearly, are quite realistic, in particular the objective of creating jobs for 100 000 people in five years. I should like to point out that 70 000 new jobs will be created in Austria alone between 1997 and 1999. In this way, Austria is at the forefront of European dynamics in terms of new jobs. This is a point which is seen far too little and which we must emphasize clearly! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Peter: Have you contributed to this?]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I had the opportunity to take part in the European Parliament's debate on the Convergence Report yesterday, as the chairmen of the national financial committees were invited to do so, and I would like to report briefly to you. The starting point of this debate in the European Parliament was the Convergence Report. I would like to mention a brief passage from this report by the European Commission, in which a collective success is noted: Building on the experience of the past, all Member States have been making several years of convergence efforts, today paying off in the form of renewed economic growth. On this basis of the Convergence Reports, there are now clear prospects: Economic and monetary union becomes timely by 1. January 1999 begins. It will be a great monetary union, including 11 states. This is a solution that is fully in the European interest, and it is a solution that is fully in the Austrian interest! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] We can clearly see that we have the best conditions for the beginning of monetary union today. It also shows that it was right not to be hurt by those who repeatedly demanded a shift. We have low inflation rates – that is, we have no inflation at all at all at 1.2 percent de facto – and we have low interest rates, and we have stable exchange rates. We therefore have the best conditions for higher growth and thus also for corresponding employment effects. However, it is true that you must beware of euphoria. We must also see that there are areas of problem. There is still the problem of the labour market, and I am going to see that later on. In Brussels yesterday, it was discussed very clearly that, of course, the budgets still represent problem areas in the sense that both the convergence report of the EMI and that of the European Commission point out that further consolidation is necessary. One could now discuss individual steps and the pace of consolidation. But I believe that all of us here in Parliament must be aware that the time of the convergence criteria – i.e. the 3 percent mark – is over. What is now relevant is the Stability Pact. The Stability Pact is much more ambitious as it assumes zero from a normal deficit and leaves the 3-percent limit open as a limit for economic reacting. I think that, in particular, those groups in this House, which constantly arouse the fear of the stability of the euro, must take this Stability Pact seriously, even if this means that we must continue to maintain budgetary discipline and not simply demand it. On the basis of his press conference today, I assume that in his speech today, Mr Haider will once again give a whole series of examples of a policy which would endanger the stability and solidity of public finances. This cannot be our policy in the interests of Austria! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Overall, the Convergence Reports are not to be seen as final reports but as interim reports on a way forward. We have created good conditions for this in Austria with the budget to be discussed today. It is therefore necessary to note very soberly: Today, the Austrian economic situation is not as good as it has been for a long time! It is not a question of cheering things up – but one should also be careful to make the economy sick – but it is about addressing the tasks ahead of us with sober realism. We are ready to do so and hope that others will!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e8002	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Khol. Voluntary time limit: 15 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e8023	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I think that the government parties can be satisfied that today they are again presenting a budget which will lead to the consolidation rate which we have now reached in recent years. [[Abg. May. Peter: But only the government parties! No one but the government parties!]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I would like to thank Mr Rudi Edlinger, the Federal Minister for Finance, very much for having done a rational and comprehensible planning process for this budget with Mr Hannes Farnleitner. For how was the liturgy of the budget negotiations that has now been saved from us? – In June, the resorts submitted their demands, in July the Minister of Finance made a mark under the wish list, and it lacked between 120 and 160 billion schilling. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Is this a liturgy? - It's new to me!]] The newspapers reported: There's a 160 billion missing. As far as the first step, that was the Introitus, colleague Hazelsteiner, and then the Gloria came. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Very good! Then the credo comes!]] That's still coming. But I'm not going to expand the comparison ad infinitum to avoid getting into the risk of blasphemy. I don't want to. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] In any case, it was subsequently fooled. The Minister brought each Minister of State to him, and the demands were made down. Then we stood at a deficit of 60 billion, and the newspapers wrote that the great crisis was imminent and that the budget did not come about. As a result, the Minister of Finance took advantage of each of them again, and around the 10th century. October each year, 20 billion schillings were missing. Then there were infinitely difficult sniffing sessions: Then the clock was stopped, and after that we finally had a budget in the high house. – It’s over, thank God. Now we have a budget that is sent to this House in a scheduled and early stage, which is an excellent budget. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The deficit is reduced to 2.6% of the national income. Economic growth is 1.5 percent higher than expected. I do not want to say that the state can generate economic growth, generate it itself, but I say, Mr Hazelsteiner, that the sin of many state budgets is that they are muttering economic growth through excessive tax burdens and worsening the economic location. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: That's great!]] That can happen. But it is now clear that we have achieved a successful budgetary policy. The economy is growing, and it is growing faster than everyone has believed. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Peter.]] Mr Peter! You either need a stronger voice, or you need to strengthen the Liberal Forum in such a way that you get into the first row. Unfortunately, I don't understand you from behind. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Maybe you understand me, Andreas! My voice is loud enough!]] I especially appreciate your sweet calls, dear Tyrolean friend! Third point: In February of this year, unlike February last year, we had 24 000 men and women more in employment, especially women. This too is a great achievement that we can be proud of, but we cannot rest on. This is the good news, but all of this is not a matter of course. I should like to remind the House that we had to pull the lines in 1995 because we were threatened with a net deficit of 5 per cent and thus failed to meet the criteria for European monetary union, which my previous speaker mentioned. The objectives of Maastricht and the euro, in which 11 countries will now participate, would not have been achieved from the 1995 perspective unless there had been a massive increase in taxes and contributions. But we have prevented that! [[In the case of the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Heindl.]] [[Abg. May. Peter: She did it anyway!]] We have pulled the lines, and we have reached a trend change through the bowl-ditz course that we have brought to the new elections. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Oye!]] You can't repeat that often enough! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Marizzi: Where is the Ditz now?]] In 1994, the budget deficit was 4.8% of the population’s income, and in 1995 it was 5.2% of the population’s income. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Who ruled there? Who was that?]] Without price change, this deficit would have increased to more than 7 percent. [[Abg. May. Peter: Who was there in the government?]] We have led the elections, the people have decided, and we have taken a new budgetary course. In 1996, the deficit fell to 3.8%, and in 1997 and 1998 it fell to 2.5%. That's a good performance. I thank the Government and the Minister for Finance! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I agree with Mr Ewald Nowotny that the Stability Pact, i.e. the commitment of all local authorities to stability and the commitment to working to ensure that no more is spent than taken – as simple as the world is – is particularly important. Mr Novotny! Our two political groups will work with the other regional authorities without problems, and will support the Finance Ministers and the Federal Government to ensure that, after the consultation mechanism, which prevents us from constantly falling into the hands of the countries and communities, the Stability Pact, in other words with a view to the stability between revenue and expenditure, continues this saving rate. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Novotny.]] In my opinion, however, we must also recognise that the people, the citizens of this country are extremely positive and support this course in a way that we must thank them. It is not the same as in other countries where everything is in confrontation, it is not the same as in other countries that the conflicts are being conducted on the streets, it is not the same as in other countries that savings packages in Parliament remain in the Federal Council. Other countries could take an example of this – and they have also been jealously recognized – in our Austrian way of fiscal consolidation. We have decided on two savings packages with the support of the Austrian population here in the National Council. We will now decide on the fourth budget in a dynamic that makes the best hope for our people and our economy. Last year we have rehabilitated health insurance and unemployment insurance. We have implemented a pension reform which does not bring about other countries, and we have already made a tax reform in 1988, such as has failed in the Federal Republic of Germany in Parliament. She didn't fail with us. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's why the Waigel wants a big coalition!]] We are preparing a further tax reform. For if you look at the accounts, you have to say that although we have been severely saved, the two thirds we have not reached. We wanted to achieve the restructuring of the state budget to two-thirds through savings and one-third by closing tax loopholes. We didn't raise the tax. We have not increased insurance contributions to health insurance et cetera. It is only economic growth that is crucial for us to achieve our budget targets, because revenue from non-increased income tax and income tax is so well-splitted. We need to know. This will result in an order for the next tax reform: a tax relief to leave more money in the pocket for the Austrian citizen and to continue the saving effort. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have carried out a number of reforms in recent years as part of this saving course. We have privatized state-owned enterprises, we have created the new business regulations, we will decide by summer another large distribution package with new legal forms for the Bundestheater, with new legal forms for the federal museums, all of which can then operate independently, with a new legal form for the Umweltbundesamt, with a new legal form for the Bundessportheime. We will push the Leviathan state back everywhere, we will create more private, more personal responsibility everywhere. That's what we're fighting for! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] With regard to the important growth sector of telecommunications, the means for the information society, we already have an important step behind us through the regional private radios – Deutsche Telekom is on the path of final privatisation – and we also have an administrative reform ahead of us. Ladies and gentlemen! But this cannot mean that we sing the song "Happy days are here again", which cannot mean that now the happy days of looser spending come, because we must continue to save. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Time to say goodbee!]] [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] It was the net deficit in 1997 with 68 billion schillings lower than the interest rate at 92 billion schillings, so in the primary budget we had a surplus – without interest – of almost 24 billion schillings or almost 1 per cent of the national income – this year it will be 25 billion schillings, so this good figure increases, but we must, in order to secure the consolidation rate in the long term, come to 2 per cent, i.e. 50 billion shillings in the primary budget. Only then can we counter economic downturns, which could at least exist, only then will we have again the budget room we need. Therefore, Minister of Finance: We must continue to save iron, and you will be able to remind us of it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: Where? Tell me where you want to save!]] [[Abg. Wabl: You continue to buy the iron tanks!]] Despite the saving course, Andreas Wabl, political accents were possible. [[Abg. Wabl: The iron tank!]] When saving, I mean everyone, not just your favorite toys, which are mentioned again and again. [[Abg. Wabl: Fassleven's favorite toys are the tanks!]] Political accents were possible, and I would also like to remind Mr Peter and Mr Hazelsteiner of the following: Between 1985 and 1995, the equity ratio of Austrian companies, which you rightly speak of, has been doubled from 16.57 percent to 32 percent. [[Abg. Böhacker: But not in tourism!]] All Austrian companies, including those of tourism! We have increased the cash flow, almost doubled, from 5 percent to 10 percent. [[Abg. Böhacker: Who raised the cash flow? The ÖVP?]] The Austrian population has increased cash flow – due to the laws, because of the good economic policy we have made. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: That's where the chickens laugh!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] I could continue this list. I could talk about improved productivity, I could talk about better unit labour costs, I could talk about export growth. Export growth: plus 14 percent. [[Prolonged calls to the liberals.]] Calm down, gentlemen, from the liberals! Mr Trattner, who calls you so loud, you are still on the way, and I would remind you that you still called our budgets a continuation of the swindle budgets in 1996. [[Abg. Aumayr: That's it!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] You meant the budget speech was a fairy tale hour. [[Consent and condolences with the liberals.]] You said there were not 20 billion schilling missing, but 45 billion more schilling. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: You've gotten everything out of the budget! They're dizzying around with breakdowns!]] All this is a Fata Morgana, Mr Trattner. We have all complied with our figures, and all their reports of disasters have proved to be false. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Hans Peter Haselsteiner already knows that I can now also speak of his statements here – I refer to my last year's budget speech – because the unhappiness prophecies of the economic captain Haselsteiner have not proved to be correct either. Mrs. Dr. Petrovic has also been wrong: It meant that overall debt would continue to rise, financial debt would continue to weaken the economy. That too is wrong! Total debt will decline. [[Abg. Wabl: (Keeping the Court of Auditors Report in height) It will be outsourced! Please read the Court of Auditors' report!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The 1999 budget continues these priorities which we have undertaken. In the fight against unemployment, the National Employment Plan, which we have decided in Parliament today at the meeting of the Federal Government, will continue to place our emphasis on creating new jobs. More than 100,000 employees! We've done this. That's a target! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Trattner: This is not being observed!]] The unhappiness-prophets of the liberals claim again: That's not gonna be followed. I'm just referring to Trattner's statements in 1996, then everyone knows: What he said at that time did not occur, but we kept what we had done. [[Abg. Böhacker: You've dizzy!]] And this time again Your accident reports do not occur – sometimes they mean yes, they talk to them; They would like it to be so, but we will respect this employment programme, which is a social programme, a development of the economic programme, and will lead to new peaks of employment. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: You still believe that!]] We will provide more money for the families and improve their economic situation. Lords of the liberals! I really think so, unlike what you say. You may not believe what you're saying, but I believe what I'm saying. That's the big difference! [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: already! But you're wrong!]] We will be able to provide more money for education and research, we will be able to provide more money for security. [[Abg. Behakier: When?]] Ladies and gentlemen! The 1999 budget will continue a good tradition, which we have established in 1995 for good budgets, which will allow for an economic upturn, increase the competitiveness of our economy, maintain the economic location in particular, and thus make it possible for the entire population to be richly prosperous. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Just because you believe it, it won't happen!]] [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Hallelujah!]] That is our objective, and I thank the Minister of Finance for his active work in this direction.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e8584	Mr Dr. Haider has now come to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e8606	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! If one has listened to the two previous speakers of the government parties, then one comes to the following judgment: What Mr Novotny and Mr Khol said was a bit liturgical, because these were not budget debates, but that was a high office of two – I would like to say – minstrants for Cardinal Rudi, the Great One to whom one has spread incense, without what has been said here. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That must be the Stadler! The Stadler likes incense!]] For the fact that Mr Khol has done so much self-denial to document so much untruth is illuminating by some examples. Mr. Novotny said it was all wonderful. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: That's it too!]] He meant: It's wonderful! The number of jobs will increase, inflation will fall, the economy is dynamic! [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Reading! That's facts!]] Mr Khol has also added his vegetables, and he has been so excited that I can only ask: What do you want you to talk like that? Obviously, you really want to go to the National Bank as you need to praise everything that is being done. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Reading!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: (a sheet of paper in height) Yes, here!]] Right! Then read what Mr Schachner-Blazizek in the Styria has directed to you today a few minutes ago, namely that the entire employment pact is not worth anything, then read, ladies and gentlemen, the figures published by Mr Buchinger from the AMS! There's nothing left with Mr. Khol's jubilant reports. Unemployment has now increased by 2.3%, and in turn, thousands of young people are affected by the fact that they will not find employment. Mr Buchinger said: The problem is, however, that we are financially burdened by the autumn offensive in 1997 to the point that there will be no more money available for young people this year. This is your budgetary policy, which has been praised here, and that is what we are criticizing you! You just brought your budget over the rounds because you took people into the pockets and took away income and because you cut off the investments. You didn't save in the state, you didn't save the bureaucracy, you didn't make any order in your bureaucrat, in your regulatory will, but you took away money from the people and cut off the investments. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This also shows the Wifo report on the federal budget, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Now all at once quote the Economic Research Institute!- Oh, my God!]] In fact, there are the following things inside: 1998 – the Wifo said – only more insignificant public investment of 1.5 percent of the budget can be identified. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Exclusion!]] That was 10 percent until recently. These are the causes of unemployment: They reduce the investment and have therefore taken unemployment into account. Or listen, if you want what the Wifo expert of the ÖVP, Mr Lehner, will do, on 18 May. February says: The Federal Government also saves on investment. This is your employment policy, ladies and gentlemen, and that is why we liberals are so critical. It is not true that the budget is so great, and thank you not the Minister of Finance, not the ÖVP or the SPÖ, but the kindness of the Austrians, who keep and take note of this government's plundering actions from the pockets of the Austrians for so long. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You, ladies and gentlemen, have needed three savings packages to get this budget. You have not changed the structures, but this year you will have to remove 147 billion schilling more taxes from the Austrians than it was three years ago. That is, every Austrian paying taxes pays about 26,000 s more on taxes and on taxes. This is not just a question of direct taxation, because you have also raised taxes in the municipalities for all possible municipal benefits up to 40 percent. This is the new method: To not have to say "tax increase", increase the charges. But the Austrian's income is the same if he suddenly has to pay 40 percent more for garbage, for sewerage, for waste disposal. It is equally important for him to pay more taxes in the social security field. I'm really asking you: If it were as good as you claimed here, why did the tax rate increase that way? Mr Khol, 1995 before you got back, you had 43 percent tax rate, now we have 45.7 percent. Yes, can you explain to me why the tax and tax rate increases if it's supposed to be as great as you said? Then why don't you have money to carry out youth employment programmes today, but do you argue in the government for an apprenticeship package if everything is so great? So it's like this: The bad ones. The characteristics of the burglars are in fact the good qualities of the Minister of Finance, namely the ability to take away money from other people – whether they want it or not. That's the way it happened. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! But once this method has to be concluded! A tax and tax rate of 45.7 percent is far above the EU average. That means that our competitiveness is also suffering. That is to say, you have just brought together a budget that fulfils the Maastricht criteria, because Austrian taxes and taxes have to pay because you reduce investment and thus risk unemployment, but you are not moving with this budget. Where are your export offensives? – You are only lucky that the price relationship with the dollar has improved. That's your export success! You have used less for export than you have propagated. Where are your technology offensives? Where is the Youth Employment Programme? If you don't even have 200 million schillings to give the firms relief measures when recruiting apprentices, you can't tell us that this is a superbudget. Such a Minister of Finance who is unable to lead the fight against unemployment, to secure the lives of young people and to give the long-term unemployed new hopes, I would send them to the post office. That would be good budgetary policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] What you're doing is to continue a course of song. Their tax policy begins by negotiating new tax increases in the Ministry of Finance's lap: Basic tax increases, unit value increases, land and land levies. You plan this to a higher extent instead of talking about tax reductions. But we'll tell you: Look Get to our European neighbouring countries! Spain has just carried out a massive income tax reduction. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: And how high is the unemployment rate in Spain?]] If I count ours together, my colleague, if I count all the early pensioners who actually want to work, but don't find work anymore, I'm 16 percent. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: That's what you're saying!]] Spain has lowered, England has made a massive cut in taxes on businesses and income tax, only in Austria it is going in the opposite direction. That is why we say: Budgetary policy, which is also employment offensive – in the end, the budget is the government programme that has been put into figures – a government programme that does nothing more to combat unemployment – that is to say, all of you – has actually failed. That's why you have to go another way. That is, you have to bring down the taxes, as is necessary in the international equation, you have to bring down the taxes especially there... [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: And bring up unemployment again!]] Wait a minute! Also in the lecture you listen first and write along, and then you think, Mr. Colleague. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Look at the facts!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: But in the lecture you hear a professor and not a polemist!]] In tax policy, we have the problem that in recent years internal purchasing power has been greatly exhausted by the savings packages. Everyone will tell you that from Wifo to IHS. No doubt! That is why we need a corresponding tax relief for those providers in our Republic who have to provide their families, who have to work hard and pay a lot of taxes. We liberals are therefore in favour of a massive tax reduction in the area of wage and income tax to strengthen mass purchasing power, ladies and gentlemen, in the form of a reduction of 5 per cent to all tariff levels. [[Complaints with the liberals]] That is, an average family owner with 25,000 S gross income, single earnings, two children – that is the average in Austria – would pay about 12 700 S less wage and income tax according to our tax proposals. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: That was your message about the savings package!]] This is something that we can talk about, ladies and gentlemen. Of course, Mr Novotny does not want this because we say that we are financing this tax reform from the legendary 114 billion schilling reserves of the Austrian National Bank. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: This is a Fata Morgana!]] This money belongs to the Austrians, not you, Mr. Novotny, and not the privileges of the Austrian National Bank. There is no doubt that you can make economic policy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We want to make a second, we also want to implement an investment-friendly tax policy for small and medium-sized enterprises, i.e. what ÖVP is always promoting in the Economic Federation: Down with the taxes on the unabsorbed profits! Right! [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: We don't pay any more taxes!]] We suggest: Let's get rid of the unabsorbed profits! Let us go on the way that any company which has reinvested the money it has earned should be able to invest this tax-free. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Mr. Haider! We don't pay any more taxes at all!]] Then we do not need subsidies, depreciation possibilities and anything else, but then we will have 70 000, 80 000 new jobs in eight to ten years. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is a programme, ladies and gentlemen, that low taxes will revive the economy and that, ultimately, jobs and jobs can also be created. But it's not the point, there's no draft in it. They are talking about tax increases, we want tax reductions and also tell you how they are going and how they could be financed. We want another third, Mr. Finanzminister: We would like to hear from you when you finally start to reduce the additional wage costs. This is the crucial point in order to make work more attractive again so as not to rationalise so many jobs. They have lost 28 000 jobs in the manufacturing industry and the industrial economy since EU accession. That's a fact. And we're discussing these things now. Why are the additional wage costs not reduced? – Because there is simply an unwritten cartel between the Austrian social partners that no reforms can in reality be made in the chamber state. I would like to speak directly to you, Mr President. If you really want to reduce the extra wage costs, I ask you why the Chamber of Commerce is still maintaining Chamber II. This is the chamber setting that was created in 1982 to help finance workers' processing for small businesses; a pot in the chamber from which the aid is financed. In the meantime, the board will pay nothing more – since 1986 nothing will be paid – but each year you will cash 3.2 billion schilling from the pockets of the local businesses over a second chamber envelope. This would be a classic contribution to reducing the additional wage costs. Don't get that amount! Leave this money easy! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: A great proposal to weaken your own representation of interests!]] Of course! – He says it’s a good proposal to weaken one’s own representation of interests. I prefer that the businesses live and that you live a little worse in your office chatter than the other way round. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] For our businesses in Austria are still those who generate taxes and secure jobs, ladies and gentlemen. But it is philosophy of chamber officials: It's important that we have our ink castles. Whether it's good for businesses to be sure that jobs are secured, that's what we're saying. This is a fight against our liberals, Mr President. We're turning this around: Chambers are secondary, working businesses and jobs are more important! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. stupid.]] That's why I'm saying: These questions should finally be discussed and decided. That would be the vision of a reasonable policy: Lowering taxes in the international context, creating competitive conditions and reducing additional labour costs in those areas where the chamber State could also contribute. Then you would have the 200 million schilling you need for the apprentices to create a 30 percent general drop-off amount for those businesses that train apprentices. Then you don't need to give subsidies. The only thing you have agreed on in your apprenticeship employment programme is that new subsidies have been made again for the board's WIFI and for the BFI. WIFI and BFI are now training all those thousands of apprentices that are not accommodated for whom you have no teaching space. These may be accommodated at the WIFI in the teaching workshop and at the BFI of the Chamber of Labour, so that the subsidies can in turn be collected. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Where's that?]] That's a disgrace to your policy! They are just about your equipment, about your officials and financing your institutions, but never about the people, the Austrians, the workers and the businesses. But that's the task of seeing them freely. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It's just not a solution to say: If the young people can't be accommodated, we'll just put them on a course for one or two years. This is theft of the young generation, ladies and gentlemen! So they are taken away by valuable years in which they could be trained. That is why I say to you: Only through low taxes, which are competitive and investment-friendly, will you also dynamic the small and medium-sized economy in such a way that these apprenticeships can create. Then you don't need the whole of Cinnamon that you have written into your employment policy treaty. Then you can think about whether one could perhaps make a foundation for vocational training out of the proceeds of privatisation – that would be imagination in the budget, Mr. Finanzminister – so that vocational schools can be equipped as they are equipped. Go to vocational schools! Look You are looking at the machines with which the apprentices still have some work to do today! The program you teach them is from yesterday. In a modern economy, modern training must also be possible. There is a need for a modernisation programme. It would be a youth-oriented policy to secure the future of young people through proper training, training in schools that are funded and also secured there. You don't do that! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I was in Lower Austria at Felten & Guillaume. I was told the following: We have our own teaching workshop. We offer the state to use it as a school, because the machines we have are much more modern than those of the vocational school. Our students learn something when they go to the vocational school because they work with the wrong devices and machines. – And this is not an individual case! Where's the imagination? Where's the creative budget? Where are the promises for the future? – Just to say that the Maastricht criteria have been achieved – and that is because they have taken away the Austrian money – we do not need you to do so, Minister of Finance. You could just put a robot there, and he would break it together. Getting money away is the most idealess thing there is at all. But to secure the future, to create jobs, to boost the economy – this is a task you should see! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Why do you not agree on the youth programme to rename the polytechnic course into a basic vocational education year? Why are 110 000 young people long-term unemployed, who have only compulsory education or apprenticeship? – You should think so! 100 000 people, mainly young people, are affected by this fate because training does not work and the dual system also has large gaps. The general education of young people must be improved if they are to cope with wider areas of vocational training. You should have found answers to the following questions: Vocational school reform, polytechnic reform, primary school improving, giving young people a starting chance and a tax reform for businesses. Although you all announce this in your voting brochures, only when it comes to setting it up in the budget, unfortunately nothing is happening there again. That is why I say to you: This budget is a deaf nut! In reality, this budget has only the only meaning that you can make your affection in Brussels and say: The model student Austria has fulfilled its criteria again! – no matter what it looks like in the country. You promised 50 000 jobs before joining the EU. What happened to it? – On average, there are 50 000 unemployed today and not 50 000 jobs. Now you promise another 70 000 jobs. The Austrians can no longer defend themselves against loud job promises. But when it comes to concrete measures, you are very modest. Then you don't even have 200 million schillings to introduce a ridiculous set-aside for training firms. My dear Minister of Finance! Sage It is not just you, but you are making a sound budget policy! Then you will revive the economy. [[Federal Minister Edlinger: We do this!]] Then you don't need to subsidize, then you don't need WIFI and no BFI to accommodate young people, then they have a teaching place in a company where they learn to work and also know how the practice looks. That's the vision you should have. Finally, I'll tell you something: If you really want to clean up the budget, you also need to clean up where it's about the superfluous state. I'm asking Therefore, why you take away money from the Austrians, but for example allow a federal office with 130 senior employees to be established at the labour market service, but in the Social Ministry the 100 people who have so far done the tasks now to do the AMS will remain in order to observe only the AMS Federal Business Office. There you should make an administrative reform! There you can save all kinds of money! I also ask you why the computer system in the labour market service – by the way, the largest computer project in the Republic, more than 3 billion schilling, where there was a very peculiar contract that one should talk about – which cost 3 billion schilling, ladies and gentlemen, was implanted three years ago, but not even today the computerised payment of unemployment support works. Is this a "functioning administrative reform"? – You could save it if you "come in" once! Or look at what all the bureaucracy on the part of businesses has to do. There is, for example, a product safety emergency regulation in the European Commission for product safety emergency procedures. The European Union, the Federal Chancellery, the national governments and the regional teams are concerned with product safety emergency procedures of the European Commission, for example, for deckchairs. A production safety procedure will be established for deck chairs; countless bureaucrats at all levels of Austrian bureaucracy are active there. An examination process for deck chairs is established. There's something to read – I quote: "External openings are to be checked as follows" – a sentence still! –: [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign]] "Open and externally accessible pipes, holes, openings and deepenings with a diameter of more than 7 millimeters and less than 12 millimeters shall be closed if the official's test finger is to be introduced into a depth of 10 millimeters." - Quote. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! That's where you need action! [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign the other day.]] You'd have to drive in there! In this nonsense, which makes the businesses alive and destroys jobs! But unfortunately you do not answer that.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e9016	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Hazelsteiner. - Please. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner goes with a cake on which there is a candle, towards the speaker'spoil.]] I hope you'll take the cake well to the pult.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e9049	Mr President. Federal Minister! Of course, you'll ask yourself what the cake should be. [[The speaker lit the candle.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's part of the liturgy! He's igniting a candle!]] Once a year, Andreas, I allow myself a modest activism. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The Hazelsteiner has gone up a light!]] This cake means: The next budget – not the present – will be the thirtyth one that a socialist Federal Minister of Finance will present to the House for approval. The 30th budget! If I do today at the 29th. Bring the cake and congratulate the budget, then for two reasons: First of all, because it is common in my family that you do not celebrate the round birthdays, but the birthday before them, because the rounds are a bit shy. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: That's no shame! That's a beautiful thing!]] They always mean, as it were, a life span, and the Thirteenth, Madam President Tichy-Schreiter, is a particularly unpleasant one. Although we both can remember him well – unfortunately – as far as I am concerned, there was a little pain in it. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: A beautiful day!]] And that's why, Minister of State, the cake for the 29th. Budget. There is, of course, another reason, Mr Federal Minister: That Federal Minister of Finance, who would have to bring in the thirtyth gate or the thirtyth budget in the House, would look old – and will also look old. I do not know, Minister of State, whether you will be the one or your successor. And I wanted to save you that too. My thesis is that the socialist Federal Minister, the 30, 31 and 32. I'd like to explain to you the budget that's going to look old. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you of the following: In 1970 there was a budget deficit of 2.2 billion schilling and a government debt of 49 billion schilling. Today, Andreas Khol has said that public debt is falling. Unfortunately, you have not promised that it will fall as a percentage of gross domestic product, but it will continue to increase in absolute terms. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: The gross domestic product also increases!]] We must turn the budget deficit into a surplus, but we are still 70 billion schilling out of it. Only then will the debt be reduced. In any case, the budget deficit for 1999 amounts to 70 billion schilling – compared with 2.2 billion years ago 29 years ago. Today, in Austria, we owe 1,600 billion schilling to 47 billion schillings 29 years ago. This, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, is what should be bothered by the fact that we can see clearly that 30 years of socialist government work – ten or twelve years of it with the support of the EIA – has imposed this burden on us for the future and we are far from solving not only the question of the budget deficit per year, but also, above all, the question of how to deal with the future generations' debt. Before this answer, press on, and this answer is also not to be read in any form in this budget as always. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Mr Bundesfinanzminister! I would like to take a closer look at the increase in expenditure on this budget and what is involved in it's dynamics. Fortunately, more than a year before, the chapter on education will be spent by 3.2 billion schilling. I mean, you can be happy about this; this is a necessary and right measure. The youth and family chapter will be spent more on 2 billion schillings – that is how it should be said; I will talk about why we believe that the structure is wrong – and we must spend more on the internal security chapter by 573 million schillings than in the previous year. – So far, so good; that is also necessary. However, it is bad that the greatest dynamic, the largest amount of all the budget chapters, can be found in Chapter 55, and these are the pensions of the High Authority with an increase of 3.6 billion schilling. This, ladies and gentlemen, should send the alarm bells to us again – as all the years before! There we should think again about what would be necessary! The National Council and the Members of the Committee on Budgets must know that this is an unresolved question of the future. If you look at the capital assignment, you can see, Mr. Federal Minister of Finance, that I have allowed myself to rupture this here on the cake, so to speak, as follows: 28 percent for public service staff expenditure, 28 percent for social welfare. And then comes a big leap, 10 percent for the Transport chapter, 9.5% for Education and Education, 4.4 percent for Science and Research, and 3.3 percent for Health. The remaining 16.5 percent share the remaining positions and are no longer to be emphasized in this context. If you take all of this into account and ask, Minister of State, what your compulsory expenses are, what your discretion expenditure is, then you can see: It remains this little piece, these narrow cuts that I have allowed myself to cut so that you can take them out. This little piece, Mr. Federal Minister, is intended to be "consumer" or disposition. [[The speaker points to a piece of the cake]] The rest, Mr. Federal Minister, can only look at you and say: The cake belongs to me, but unfortunately I can't eat it, because it has been distributed several times and has been eaten several times by many others, my room is modest, it's just these small cuts. – And I fear I was a little too generous in my design. The reality – measured by your budget – is much more pitiful. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] As always, Mr Federal Minister, I have, of course, studied your budget speech and I would also like to add my further comments to it. For example, they said: We are proud that we have implemented reforms, and these are to be considered as considerable. Furthermore, you are talking about liberalisation of the trade regulations, administrative reform, pension reform as well as technology and export offensive. I really have to tell you the following, Minister of State: I do not think that in the heart of your heart you call the reform of the trade order a'significant'. I do not recognise any reform at all, because if one assumes, as the colleagues from the ÖVP do, that the combination of different commercial rights, such as that of the sugar baker and the baker, is a "reform", then, ladies and gentlemen, one should stop the debate. These are not just reforms, they are not repairs, but that is the repetition of course. You could have seen that already 20 or 25 or 30 years ago, yes, then you don't need to sell it as a "reform" in 1998 or 1999 as a "reform" for which you must laugh at everyone. For I think everyone in this country is clear that such steps are necessary, that repairs are small contributions, but are not carried by the will to design, by the will of reform and by political courage. I do not dispute that you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, also need political courage to do so, because otherwise you do not prevail in your own chamber structure. But it should not be understood as a political courage in the sense of a stategant, that here a state-bearing party brings in something that contributes to the welfare and development of our country. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] In his budget speech, the Minister of the Federal Republic of Germany is twice addressing a reform of the administration, which was obviously decided in the autumn of 1997. Federal Minister! I am of the opinion that not only are we overshadowed, but also the public has not taken this great reform so seriously. You sold them badly, obviously. There is neither a debate on it, nor do I recognize any significant or decisive evidence of administrative reform. I would therefore be grateful if you could give us some information about this in the context of the budgetary discussions. The fact that such an administrative reform would be urgently necessary is that the key word which the Chancellor of the Federal Republic so often takes into account, that Austria must become a State of Services, that expenditure on public administration is one of our biggest problems, that we should consider what is necessarily a state task and what could be achieved by other, more efficient units organized by private economic rules, are facts that I have pointed out, as long as I am a Member of this House, with every budget speech. Regrettably, Mr Federal Minister, no response has been made to this. That is why I do not believe that you can take advantage of a "significant" administrative reform. Also emphasize and say: We have decided to reform pension systems! Ladies and gentlemen! We remember very well: In order to make it a little easier, you have brought an expert from abroad. Then you have made proposals to this expert. Then you have folded all the proposals of this expert to an even smaller piece than the discretion expenditure in this cake, which has shifted the whole to 2020 and said: That's the reform! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! Our Austrian pension reform is not enough to ensure pensions, not for those who are already in retirement, not for those who are over 50 years old and can expect a pension. It is not appropriate to meet the budgetary requirements in 2005 and upward. We must be aware of this fact. Mr Novotny, I think you know this too, and you know that it is a time bomb. That is to say, this beautiful English symbol of foo's paradise is true here. That is, when Members are sitting in plenary, feeling comfortable, everything is so crazy, and at the same time there is a time bomb that they don't know anything about. The pension question is a time bomb! We and unfortunately with us the Austrian population, which rightly derives from a claim, live in a pols paradise. Close the eyes and clog the ears with Oropax does not eliminate this condition. But that is exactly what you did with your pension reform, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Another reform, Mr. Federal Minister, which you use for yourself or for the Federal Government, is the technology and export offensive. I think we could talk about the technology and export offensive. It could be recognized that at least once you have pooled the expenditure, that you have compiled different packages, although I still claim that the composition of different spending positions in a package does not yet have an effect. But you have not managed to make the most of the technology offensive, Mr. Federal Minister – you yourself have gladly admitted it in the openness to be confirmed to you –: They have not reformed research and development expenditure. You, in turn, used experts outside the government team, made proposals, but you failed. You know that, and we know it too. It's not a secret. Now say You are: We are making a technology offensive!, but the basis for the technology offensive, namely a research and development basis, which then leads to a technology offensive and, as a result, can also become an export offensive, we do not have in Austria. If we compare ourselves – and not with the worse, ladies and gentlemen, but with the better – then we know that there is a danger here that we have not guaranteed that we can keep up with technology and research, and that in the long term there will be a risk to jobs and prosperity for the next generation. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, these things are added. The government debt has pushed you at least to the next generation, and the lack of research and development expenditure in this generation will lead to a training deficit and a competitive disadvantage of the next generation – compared to our international competitors. To do this, I have to say something to you: If you are already putting on public debt and thus attracting the future young people before the hundred-metre run, it is incomprehensible that at the same time you don't even give them aid, but tie a clot to the other leg and say: Now run 110 meters of obstacles in Olympic time! That's why you're overrepresenting this generation. And that's not fair and it's not right! [[Acclaim at the Liberal Forum and Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen.]] Federal Minister! Then, among other things, you also mention such special reform projects as the Investment Fund Act – this is the case in the meantime – and the Takeover Act – I would say – is being strengthened in your budget speech. Federal Minister! I should like to remind you that the takeover law was thrown into the discussion by the ÖVP on the occasion of the CA adoption, because a multi-thousand-member client was seen and said: We will look upon you, that you will not be under the wheels, we will make a law of takeover! That was 1996. [[Federal Minister Edlinger: 1997!]] 1997 in January! A legal settlement was promised until the summer of 1997. We then filed a proposal and formulated a legislative proposal because a law on takeover is not such a difficult thing. That is almost everywhere in the world, not only in Austria. I am of the opinion that we do not always have to text everything in Austrian, it is enough to take a reasonable law from another country in which one also speaks German, writes, and adapts it from me. That's a four-hour job, and then it'd be ready for insertion. We have tabled such a request, and at the time of the adoption it was recorded on that date. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler.]] – He comes in, makes noise, but doesn’t understand anything about the budget, gel? [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Federal Minister! Today we have 1998 and still have no takeover law. Maybe we'll get it in the summer. But these are bears still running around. They promise to kill some of them. I don't know if your equipment will make it possible. I therefore mention the Takeover Act, because it is so significant for us to understand reform policy in Austria. As a rule, the reform does not go too far, it comes too late, and it focuses mainly on the traditional and given structures. This, ladies and gentlemen, we do not see this as a joy of reform, and we do not see it as a political courage, as a vision, as a start, as a preparation for the next millennium and as a legitimacy for the continuation of this great coalition. [[Acclaim at the Liberal Forum and Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen.]] You also say in your budget speech, Minister of Finance: We have made structural, long-term reorientations in expenditure as well as in revenue. I do not recognize these realignments. My previous speaker went into it, I'm saving it. There's nothing to be found here. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Who seeks to find him!]] – I wrote up so much, and I still have to come to Andreas Khol. On another point, on another speciality, Mr. Federal Minister for Finance: employment. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Federal Minister for Finance! The Federal Minister of Finance is the German, that's not him!]] You have proudly pointed out in your budget speech that out of the distributed societies a budget of 23.4 billion is available for investment, and in the budget itself there are 22.1 billion. If you add that, then you come to 46 billion schilling. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we already had this value in 1990 and if you agree on this value of inflation, you will have to realize that your statement that we have made significant increases in public investment in order to be able to act effectively on employment is a wishful thought. Mr Bundesfinanzminister! They also say: We will put forward a plan and put in place measures to ensure that we have a high-performance economy! You can't believe that yourself. They know that the heads of state – not those of your group, but mostly those of the ÖVP – exist on their own toys, that everyone says they could do everything, only not in the country of Tyrol, not at the Illwerke and not at STEWEAG, so somewhere else, so according to the good old method of St. Florian. Federal Minister! You know that the reform of the economy has failed. My colleague Kier will address the reform of the family tax system or the reform of the family support system. Finally, I would like to say a few words about Hallelujah. [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] Andreas! It should just be called "Luja," because what you said here – that is my conclusion – that the Austrian industry has 32 percent equity ratio, I ask you to show me. I'd be very happy if it were true. But I'm sorry you're not right on this point! – No, the Minister of Finance receives it. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Do I get the cake now?]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e9281	The next speaker is Mr Van der Bellen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e9302	Mr President. Federal Minister! First of all, my condolences that you must not eat the cake at once. When we consider that 1999 is an election year, we must say that this budget is actually amazingly inventive, powerless, juicy, separate from various things. There is no tax reduction, as usual in election years. Why not? – On the one hand, because of the Stability Pact in the EU, on the other hand, because the Austrian budget policy of SPÖ and ÖVP at the beginning of the 1990s has ensured that there is no budgetary room. There are no changes in budgetary policy, perhaps apart from family support, but otherwise nothing can be seen far and wide. For a continuation of the status quo of the last three years it has reached. As far as fiscal consolidation is concerned, no further progress has been made. After the elections, in 2000, we will be presented with the invoice. Mr Khol! This kind of budget policy will probably not be enough for saintly or even only beatifications to stay with your image. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You're demanding a lot, Mr. Cot! Blessed and Holy Pronunciation!]] – You chose these liturgical examples, not me. Once again on the deficits, because the spokespersons of SPÖ and ÖVP, Mr Novotny and Mr Khol, rightly pointed out that this budget is to be seen specifically with regard to monetary union. You have said a lot of right things, Mr Khol, but you have also left away a lot of important things. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Hazelsteiner! That's a professor!]] – I will try to relativize my positive statement. You have rightly referred to the year 1995, Mr Khol, so to speak, the starting point of the evil, but that is only half the truth. In 1995 the wave of breakers, as it were, was budgeted, but not more so. All started in 1993/94. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Right!]] The actual structural breakdown was compared with 1992 where the deficits have exploded. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You're right!]] Who was responsible for budgetary policy at the time? [[Abg. Dr. Khol: In the last speech last year I discussed this in detail!]] In this context, I should like to remind you of your own goals, not those of the Greens, of the Liberals or of the Liberals. In its October 1997 convergence programme, Mr. Khol and Mr. Nowotny, a deficit of 2.2 per cent in 1999 and one of 1.9 per cent in 2000. We are already keeping 2.5 percent of each other for the third year in a row. These small decimal values behind the comma will be added in 2000. We are already around 20 billion away from the consolidation target of 2000. My colleague, Mr Khol, said – I have written this down – that the deficit will be reduced to 2.6 percent in 1999. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: 2.5!]] Yes, Maastricht 2.5, federal government alone 2.6. There's nothing going down here, Mr. Khol. This is the status quo since 1997. This is the 1997 value, which is the expected value, if the budget holds, of 1998, and that will also be the value for 1999 when the data hold. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: This is the lasting success, Mr. Cot!]] – Permanent, my colleague! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: This is the so-called sustainability! Those sustainability that your greens always value so much!]] I can now quote a sentence: Compared with the financial balances estimated in the Convergence Programme for 1999 to 2000, further substantial fiscal consolidation is necessary in order to meet the medium-term objective of the Stability and Growth Pact, which will be effective from 1999 onwards, namely to achieve an almost balanced budget or a budget surplus. Where's that in there? – This is not only in the budget speech of Mr Khol today, but also in the convergence report of the European Monetary Institute of March. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I said that too!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: OECD!]] From this point of view, we are miles away. After the elections we will be presented the bill, before the elections is pretended to have a huge consolidation success. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Before what elections?]] Mr Khol! 1999, I'm just talking about next year. In 1999 we have the choice, after that it will start. Until then, we'll be on the spot. This is the budget policy of the current government. That's not consolidation, but that's just keeping the status quo, and maybe we should be glad about it. I thought your goals were more ambitious, and the EMI is also more ambitious than that. For those who are interested, I say: This is not, as it were, a political will which is explained here, but these budgetary consolidation objectives are now legally established. I am not absolutely happy with that, I must say that, but there are now two EU regulations, both of which were adopted on 7. In July 1997, the Member States participating in monetary union had to submit so-called stability programmes in the future, as opposed to the previous convergence programmes. The content is the same, only sharper. I am still enigmatic about why the stability programme is called. When I studied, stability meant something more comprehensive than the one-sided orientation of budget deficits. But it's supposed to be that way, that's the situation. On these points I am right, Mr Khol. They have repeatedly pointed out that consolidation is necessary, will be necessary. You have not made any connection to the forthcoming elections, but I am doing so because it throws a certain light on the current situation and on those after it, but on the other hand you are right on these points. What was perhaps a little beautiful was the history with the government debt ratio. The government debt ratio 1997/98 decreases only because the ASFINAG was distributed. Everything else disappears behind the command line. And there is a recent 1998 Court of Auditors report on the ASFINAG, which points out that the structural problems of the ASFINAG themselves have not been solved and that the objectives that should actually be pursued with the dissemination have not been achieved. Furthermore, the consolidation policy of recent years – and Mr Haider rightly pointed out this – has provided us with the highest tax rate, the highest tax rate of the Second Republic. This is not necessarily to be qualified as a success either. After the 1999 elections, we will be presented with the invoice, because then the deficit will be reduced, but on the other hand, the Federal Government has also promised us a tax reform, not only a non-profit, but also one, especially in the area of wage tax, which is intended to eliminate the cold progression. At present, I do not see the scope for this to be given to the appropriate extent, not least due to the early family promotion reform. All the more and more urgent, I believe, we should call for those parts of the tax reform that do not require a margin of time, because they can just be conceived neutrally. And this can only be a reduction in the burden of labour, financed by an increase in taxes on energy consumption and resource consumption. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This part of the tax reform is possible without there being a large margin in the budget, where we are not talking about a deficit of 5, 10 or 15 billion from the scale of the budget – I am not tired of stressing it; that is all small-scale. If, in Austria alone, the payroll taxes to the 80 billion schillings per year are not to be mentioned by the other labour-related taxes, an eco-tax reform will only be worthy of its name if it covers at least a three-digit amount. On the subject of the technology offensive, I can only agree with what Mr Hazelsteiner said earlier in detail. We have often discussed this here in the house, but so far with moderate success, I must say. There is no technology offensive, there is no technology billions, there are years out, a few hundred million, and in this context I would like to refer briefly to the situation of the FWF, the Research Fund for Economic Research. The FWF is now for the fourth time in a row, I believe, with 600 million Schilling base budget included in the Federal estimates. This is an amount that has been supplemented in recent years by around 100, 150 million schilling from the area of the famous, well-known technology offensive. However, this amount is not fixed. Quickly, these 600 million schillings are. What is needed is for 1998 to be negotiated, so that it can be negotiated for the current year. I can only wish the FWF all the best. After 1999, the additional amount is not fixed in the budget. I mention this because the FWF still represents for Austria what the DFG, the German Research Foundation, is in the Federal Republic. The DFG has a much higher, also relatively natural, budget than the FWF. This residue could be picked up over the years if the FWF budget were to rise, we say, 10 percent per year. There have also been political discussions – I look at Mr. Luke in this connection – which have unfortunately not led to any binding commitments. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lukesch.]] – Only, the DFG funds increase by 4 to 5 percent per year and the FWF funds do not. How should the residue, the relative residue of Austria, be picked up in the long run? - That's the point. In short, on the revenue side, I see a certain problem. I should like to remind you that in the 1997 budget nothing has gone as great as Mr Khol described it here. In 1997, there was indeed a temporary gap of around 20 billion schillings, based on mis-estimated tax revenue or non-provisional expenditure increases in pensions, in hospitals and so on. Only – rely on it Of course, she always implicitly, Mr. Khol, has managed in the budget to compensate for these less revenue or additional expenditure. But this does not change the fact that the estimates and reports were entirely correct not only by me but also by colleagues Trattner and others in relation to this 20 billion schilling. With regard to sales tax in particular, we had a minus of 6 billion schilling gross in 1997 – the preliminary delivery success. Nevertheless, the 1999 estimates include sales tax of around 25 billion Schilling compared with 1997. That is what I am looking at, whether you will actually achieve this number! For the total revenue, the tax estimate in 1997 was too high by 10 billion schilling net – that is, only federal government alone. Nevertheless, in the Federal estimates, the total income for the federal government alone is about 43, 44 billion schilling higher. I don't think so. I do not think that the tax side of the Federal budget is correctly estimated for 1999. In conclusion, and in general, I mean: The 1999 budget is a continuation of the status quo of 1997 and 1998 – with the exception of family support. In tax terms, nothing happens, on the expenditure side – again apart from family support – nothing happens. In particular, I miss the major structural shifts in favour of the so-called future investment – in turn I quote Mr. Hazelsteiner, I do not need to repeat this – in education, research, technology offensive and so on. I found it most surprising in the last few weeks that we can't even scratch up the resources we are dealing with here in the field of active labour market policy. I must admit that at the time of the Luxembourg Summit on employment measures in the EU, I was among those who said: The mountain bears a mouse and so on! – What is what has been decided at the Luxembourg Summit? Now it turns out to me that Austria has the greatest difficulties to organise and finance even those modest, truly modest measures that are required by the EU, especially in the field of active labour market policy. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: 100 000 employees modest measures?- Oh, my God!]] – 100 000 people will not reach you through the measures. They hope for a good economic situation that these additional 100 000 employees will come in some way automatically, but certainly not because of the National Action Programme, which is still not available, because you have not been able to agree on a programme in this field until today. The year 1999 is an election year. Nevertheless, it has not been too good, that is actually amazing. From the year 2000 we will be presented the invoice. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e9525	Now, Mr Edlinger, Federal Minister, has spoken. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e9546	Mr President. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! It is a coincidence, but perhaps a more pleasant one that the presentation of the 1999 budget and the publication of the Convergence Reports, both of the EMI and of the European Commission, took place on the same day. It was therefore not possible, in the context of my budget speech, to place the results or the evaluations of EMI and the European Commission in the budget speech, if I may formulate this, although it would have shown an interesting aspect, because for the first time, I believe, we have been given a comparative assessment for a number of national governments, set out before the national Parliament, and its environmental assessment by major pan-European institutions. I believe, therefore, that the debate which begins today at first reading and continues in the Committee on Budgets and, ultimately, in the special debate on the various chapters would seem quite appropriate to allow this comparative analysis of the policies of the countries of the European Union to be incorporated into this debate. I therefore believe it is important that the first reading of the 1999 proposal for the Federal Republic of Germany be carried out in a very short time, which is ultimately to be said by both the EMI and the European Commission on the convergence of the European countries and ultimately also in the assessment of the Austrian situation. I believe it is essential to note that both reports show that a very large part of the European Union's countries have reached the criteria necessary for the successful implementation of the third stage of EMU. In fact, we are today facing the threshold of a new Europe, a Europe of peace – no question at all – a Europe of economic growth through the elimination of certain irritations, such as in the exchange rate field and the like, what from 1. Most of the European Union's countries will be history in January 1999. I therefore believe that we can say that in this Europe, too, we are bringing better opportunities for the citizens of our states. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I should like to comment on Mr Van der Bellen – I am sure that we will have the opportunity, in the course of further discussions in the Committee, perhaps also in the hearing, to deepen these considerations a little – namely, the importance of the European Union, the importance of what we are trying to implement in the National Action Programme on European Decisions – without any doubt, the constraints of the budgetary framework that differ from one Member State to another. The quantity of work carried out, for example with regard to employment, is also differentiated in the individual national states. No one has claimed that the actions of the National Action Programme will create 100 000 jobs in five years, but it has been claimed that the European Union promises that economic and monetary union will create the conditions for growth. The task of the National Action Programmes is to help people in these very flexible labour markets to understand the opportunities that arise in the new Europe, and that is the main objective of the National Action Plan! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I believe that with the adoption of improved growth, which results from economic and monetary union on the one hand, and the possibility of offensive and active labour market management measures, we will also use the funds properly in order to put growth opportunities into more highly qualified employment. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I believe that from the beginning and even during the accession negotiations, we have always made it clear that the further deepening of the idea of the European Union is also actively supported in the spirit of the founding Treaties of Austria in order to contribute accordingly to a positive economic development of our continent. I believe that it is important not only to study these two reports but also to study many others thoroughly. For example, I personally asked the Austrian National Bank to make an assessment from its point of view; I know that this is also happening in many other countries, such as the Federal Minister for Finance of the Federal Republic of Germany, the German Federal Bank has commissioned itself to consider the form in which to deepen the conditions or the measures necessary for lasting stability, which is one, as I believe, very important factor when talking about other developments in the European Economic Area. I would therefore like to present a summary of the results of the Convergence Reports, as I see it, in the near future. I think we can say without exaggeration that Austria has achieved its economic and integration policy objective and all the criteria necessary for participation in the third stage. At this point, it has been mentioned several times that budgetary consolidation was not a very easy way, not a path that was only lined by applause, but a path that was painful. If, for example, it is found today that, because of the fact that 1999 is an election year, it is actually missing the electoral sugars in the budget, I very much respect it. Ladies and gentlemen, as Minister of Finance for the Government, I consider this to be a compliment, because what I am presenting is a budget of honesty. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I am simply not willing to come here today and promise the Austrian population something that everyone knows that it is not to be kept. Dr. Van der Bellen and Dr. Hazelsteiner! Therefore, no invoice will be presented in 2000 and no invoice will be presented in 2000 if we carry out the 1998 budget in a reasonable and correct manner, as we did in 1997. And as if the foundations of the 1999 budget were a continuation of nothing at all, it is a little exaggeration! It has already been said: We have taken a very important step in the area of family taxation, we have already provided, on several occasions, in the 1998 budget, but also in the 1999 budget, for the financial resources that are necessary in order to meet the objectives of the National Action Programme, and we have, even if it does not work quite as well as I would like in technical implementation, in the field of export and technology policy, contributed from the financial engineering side to the fact that more than that was the case in 1996 and 1997. I believe that we are making it quite clear that we are not only continuing a certain state of affairs in 1996 and also in 1997, but that we have very probably changed something structurally. Because it was true that I was confronted about a year ago when it was called: Well, the 1997 budget is a cumulation of one-time measures, what will all happen!? – What will happen after elections has been suggested several times: A prominent leader of an opposition party once meant that the great truth came after the Upper Austrian country election. This was shortly before the adoption of the 1998 budget. They say the truth comes after the National Council election. Faith You're telling me: The 1998 budget and the 1999 budget, both budgets I have worked out and presented together with Hannes Farnleitner, are truly serious, they may not be spectacular, but they are clean and correct, and that is the policy I want in this country! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Indeed, Austria's economic data – and this can be clearly seen in the Convergence Reports – are impressive. It is true that we are not the top all over the world, but Austria is the most price-stable country in the European Union with an inflation rate of 1.1% on average over the last 12 months. The long-term interest rates are at a historically low level with just under 5 percent. The public deficit was 2.5 per cent in 1997 – after 5.2 per cent in 1995, it is significant and demonstrates certain creativity, but also wise proposals and, of course, the understanding of the Austrian population. The debt ratio is rising to 65 percent and is almost 10 percent below the average of the European Union. One thing I would like to say in all modesty: The unemployment rate in Austria is the second lowest in the European Union despite all the problems of 4.5%. And that is not self-evident, but it helps those framework conditions that also create politics and, of course, businesses in this country! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meisinger.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I think it is remarkable that most of the other countries of the European Union also meet the convergence criteria. I said at a press conference in Brussels last summer – the question was: Would you like a large or small EMU? – that from the point of view of a small, very export-oriented country, it would be important to have as large a EMU as possible, in which our main trading and economic partners in particular are represented. If one compares the convergence of the 14 Member States today, one can see that, not only in Austria but elsewhere, it is amazing in terms of price stability, in terms of interest rates, in terms of government deficits, with regard to debt criteria. If Mr. Dr. Hazelsteiner gives me a cake – even more so from Sluka, quite expensive, but please, I accept it thank you – then I would like to tell him the following: You're very presumptuous if you just gave me a little piece and say that the rest would've fooled others. [[Abg. Böhacker: Eat! There was no talk of "nassed"!]] That's how your interpretation was more or less. As far as the development of the last 30 years is concerned, I would like to point out that Austria, embedded in a European economic area, has developed well. There is no country in Europe where similar developments exist, such as the deficits of public budgets or debt. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: And what about Switzerland?]] On the contrary: Other countries in Europe have far greater deficits than we do. There are countries within the Economic and Monetary Union which have a debt ratio which is twice that of the Republic of Austria. It will have to be the common effort of all to make a budgetary policy that will ensure stability, without neglecting the social criteria which will become an increasingly important factor in this Union, in addition to employment, because there is also comparability in this area and can therefore distort competition. It is therefore necessary to ensure that this common European area is developed accordingly. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! It is indeed true that in the last two years, we have kept the deficits about stable. But I remember with a certain approach of pleasure that about a year ago, in this House, the fact has been criticised that we have only come on these 2.5 percent with one-time effects. This was not disputed by me at the time, but I explained at the time that I considered the five-year period, from 1996 to 2000, to be a unit with a view to a sustainable budget consolidation. It is interesting that, in its assessment of Austrian convergence, the European Commission has similarly interpreted this point without being asked for it. The European Commission has said that the Austrian consolidation was feasible in the years 1996/97 by a considerable amount of one-off effects. However, the 1998 and 1999 budgets show that the structural measures taken in 1996 and 1997 have been used as one-off effects for consolidation. These long-term, sustainable measures will ultimately achieve this level – the European Commission speaks of almost one percent of GDP. I remember saying here in this House last year that the phase of fiscal consolidation, which began in 1996 and 1997 with a single package of savings and measures, will be changed in 1998 and 1999 by structural measures and will lead to a tax reform in 2000. I would like to say once again what I said in the budget debate: We are seeking a tax reform in 2000, a tax reform aimed at relieving the labour factor, a tax reform, the retransmission potential. A tax reform cannot and should not, if you do not want to think one-dimensionally, be assessed solely after the reduction of some tariff approaches, but according to the structural effect achieved by the change in tax assets. This is the objective that we will also achieve by means of tax reform 2000. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! There will certainly be an opportunity to discuss the issue of tax reform in good time. I commissioned the tax reform commission a year ago – and I repeat that – to develop tax models for the Republic of Austria. In my view, there have been some basic requirements, namely the objective of relieving labour, reviewing capital taxation, resource taxation and respecting convergence. These are the four main criteria I have given to the Tax Reform Commission. Of course, I am not pleased, although I understand when ideas appear in certain media, for example, when it is said that it is from well-informed circles to learn, this or that tax should be increased, and more so. I am very clear that I am going to listen to all the proposals and I am going to present them to the public and discuss them in so far as they are in accordance with the objectives I have set. We will have to take time for that. I hope that we can discuss them objectively, although I know that it is not easy to discuss tax policy issues at a time when elections are in the open. Those who know me know that I am interested in solutions, in solutions that are target-oriented, in solutions that also have a perspective. Maybe some things go too slowly, that may be, but the motto: Where I'm going, I don't know, I'm just driving fast, so I'm faster there!, that's not my policy. I want to look at an objective, namely to give this country and its citizens, within the framework of this new Europe, the importance which allows people in that country to have work, to the economy in that country to grow, to our Republic to continue to develop peacefully and to contribute to the international community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e9645	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Gartlehner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e9667	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, it is a punishment of God to preserve the term of office if one has the task of going to the speaker's desk after the Minister of Finance's speech. In order not to make the waste all too abrupt, I thought I was bringing in at the beginning of my speech, to the beginning, a quote from the Minister of Finance from his recent budget speech, which he held here, because I think this is a good start. In this budget speech, the Minister of Finance has said – I quote – that: "Some have doubted the success of budget consolidation. And it was indeed a difficult and in many areas little grateful task, but we have begun it in the knowledge of the responsibility for this country. We have consolidated state finances through expenditure discipline, respect for social balance and economic impact, and through gaps on the revenue side." [[Abg. Böhacker: Through a few revenues! 150 billion more! Not much – just 150 billion more!]] And on top of that: "We were able to halve the annual budget deficit almost half of 1995 and thus reduce it by around 50 billion schilling. And we have made structural, long-term reorientations in expenditure as well as in revenue. Today I can say: Austria has successfully pursued the path of fiscal consolidation!" I think it has actually been very compact and comprehensive in these few sentences in the context of this one-hour speech that has just been given, how this course has been carried out over the last four years. And that was something very special in Austrian domestic policy, ladies and gentlemen, because this 1999 budget is almost the last segment of a four-year consolidation course that has gone over the last three years and will last for another year. As early as the previous year, this budget was drawn up on rough lines in 1999 together with the 1998 budget. We have to make certain adjustments to the modest extent of 7 billion schilling, which we have to debate and decide in the next few weeks in this House. During the opening phase – today already mentioned several times – in 1996, these consolidation steps were taken. The deficits were halved by around 50 percent, the conditions for participation in economic and monetary union from 1999 onwards. In other words, we have achieved these objectives, objectives which we would have set ourselves anyway, we would not have found this European situation. Because one thing was clear: The fact that 5 percent had already entered a state of re-indebtedness, which, when compared with 1992, 1993 presented an Austrian peak. Now we are in the stabilisation phase, as Mr Finanzminister calls it, and we have been commuting for a budget deficit of 2.6 percent at the present time, not 2.2, as anyone has said today. But the Federal Minister has already said in recent weeks that he is not willing to optimize the statistical details behind the comma, taking into account job losses, of additional heavy burdens on the Austrian population. I think it has been very skillfully tried to make structural effects effective over the last two years. We all know very well that these structural changes do not yet take place to the desired extent or to the extent required by the opposition. But it is also in the state structure that everything is linked to structures that are changed with caution and continuity, but with certainty. And I am very optimistic that these activities, which have been set up over the last two years, will also have their monetary and fiscal implications for the benefit of the Austrian population and politics over the next decades. Ladies and gentlemen! The 1999 budget has four main priorities. Although, as the Minister himself has said, it is not very spectacular, the main focus has been on employment, family, safety, education and research. It may already be that the Austrian scientific research fund has a worse funding than the fund of the German Research Society. I can tell you, however, that the FWF is only financed by the federal government in Austria, but the German research fund is also co-financed by the German federal states. It is therefore very difficult to make comparisons here when once it is about pears and another time about apples. I believe that this 1999 budget has a historical quality. It is the first year with the new European currency, and this European currency is really a historic step in the right direction, because I know and we all know that this European currency will be a step towards greater justice within these European economies, but also an important step in achieving more justice in the market. As far as the forecasts are concerned, we are also very optimistic, because we can refer to very positive forecasts by the Economic Research Institute for 1999. It is logical that whenever inflation is lower than real growth, the economic indicators are essentially good. I would like to save myself for the time-term economic reasons to carry out the last forecast of the Wifo in detail. Some colleagues from the opposition groups have today tried to present this budget as more or less serious threat. Mr. Hazelsteiner organized a guard here with a Sluka gate to warn us that next year perhaps the 30th day might be the next year. Year with a finance minister may be social democratic couleur. Mr Haider meant that the budget was a deaf nut and so on. You shouldn't do it that easy, nor if you're sitting in the glasshouse yourself. I think it has already been greatly dominated by Freud when Mr Haider goes out and complains about the fact that, in the context of the tax reform, it is also discussed whether the basic taxes should not be affected, especially for large-scale landowners. If Mr Haider believes that this is a non-social activity, I must say that I am not so convinced of this view. I can very well imagine that Mr Haider should pay the corresponding tax for his property and Mr. Hazelsteiner for his shares in the cake in his group. We, and this has already been formulated by Minister Edlinger, do not necessarily mean tax reduction, but the really efficient use of the tax instrument for the benefit of a dynamic development of our Republic. In this sense, I am also optimistic that, despite the forthcoming election year, we will proceed with a very reasonable reorientation of our tax concepts and our tax strategies in this Republic. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e9704	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Stummful. 10 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e9726	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The 1999 budget, which we are discussing here today in this House at first reading, has three marks for me, three signals. The first signal: It is this 1999 budget that is a signal of stability and continuity, ladies and gentlemen, something that is incredibly valuable in a very unstable world in today's time when the world is changing rapidly. And this is ultimately the basis of the confidence of the population in the stability of the currency and in the stability of economic policy, ladies and gentlemen. This budget makes a significant contribution to this. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The second signal from this 1999 budget is the signal that Mr Finanzminister has just highlighted in great detail. This budget, ladies and gentlemen, is a euro budget. It ensures that Austria can participate in this huge European project of a common economic and monetary union. It is even a historic budget in this sense, because, as a result of this budget, the European Community, the European Monetary Institute has confirmed to us – and we have just heard from Mr Finanzminister – that we have achieved a degree of maturity which allows us as a small country to participate in this huge European project of a common economic and monetary union. So it is a euro, a European budget, ladies and gentlemen. The third label: This budget is also a budget of future optimism, which is because, despite savings, accents have been set here, despite the continuation of consolidation, towards future security. As a few examples, I mention the question of family tax reform. I know every finance minister sees this with a crying and smiling eye, I understand. But it is a signal of optimism for the families, far into the next millennium, that despite savings, despite consolidation, despite Maastricht goals, we say yes, we recognize that families need more money in their hands, yes, there should be more money in the hands of the family and less money in the hands of the Minister for Finance. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Second example: This budget will provide further research funding for all necessary restrictions, with all the necessary savings, including a signal towards further technology billions. I'd like to admit, I'd like more. Well, who wouldn't want more of anything? I'd rather that the Minister of Finance would have more. This is a signal, however, that despite savings, offensive future strategies are possible. The government has recognized this, and as a parliamentary majority we will be happy to take this future course with this budget, ladies and gentlemen. The third example: In the 1999 budget, the education, science and active labour market policy sectors were also higher in terms of future security. In all the difficulties of budget creation, I think it is important that we put emphasis on this. Again: Everyone would have liked to have more in his area, for which he is responsible, but it is clear that despite savings, there are also accents in the direction of an offensive economic and social strategy. Ladies and gentlemen! If we debate the 1999 budget, we must also see in which economic landscape these accents are placed. I am already aware that in every country in the world, the opposition in the budget debate is probably painting everything in dark colors – with pessimism, with negative things. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: What does "dark" mean?]] But, ladies and gentlemen, there are certain figures which are not what we call but which the European Community publishes and which are indisputable. And the main key figures are now economic growth, unemployment and price increases. The Minister for Finance has already mentioned it in part: A European comparison shows that in the European Union, as far as the unemployment rate is concerned – it is too high, no question, it should be lower – the second lowest in value. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: All of us are in retirement!]] We have the lowest youth unemployment, and the youth is not in retirement, dear Harald Ofner! The youth is not in retirement! We have the lowest youth unemployment! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Don't shout like that! You can't miss me!]] Mr Haider said that our apprentices are constantly being trained in obsolete machines and how bad that is. I wonder, however, why, at the Profession olympiade, the participants from dozens of countries, the Austrian apprentices always reach number 1 again and again. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: By the stenographers and by the cooks!]] This is a sign of the quality of our vocational training. I know you want to blackpaint as an opposition officer, but that doesn't help you. The facts and facts are against you, dear Harald Ofner! – I hope that this medicine will help to ensure that your eyes are a little more positive and optimistic in the future. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner takes drops from a bottle.]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Live homeopathy!]] Ladies and gentlemen! There are national economists who attempt to form a so-called performance index from the three key figures of unemployment, economic growth and consumer price index – with a national economic formula. If you look at this, you can see that Austria is twice as good as the EU average with this performance index. Ladies and gentlemen, these are figures, which are facts and facts that an opposition speaker cannot wipe away. These are the facts and facts that the European Union has collected and which has not manipulated either the Minister for Finance or the Chamber of Commerce or anyone else. These are objective indicators in the sense of a benchmarking of the European states, ladies and gentlemen. The exports took a very great, sensational development in the previous year, with double-digit growth rates – 30 percent increase in Eastern Europe, 40 percent increase in South America, 28 percent increase in North America – which is all the more important, Mr. Colleague – you may not know, I tell you now – when every second job in Austria is directly or indirectly dependent on exports. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker]] This is a considerable current account. And don't accuse me of seeing everything just through the pink glasses. [[Abg. Böhacker: So far!]] In the sense of benchmarking one must, I think, objectively show where we have strengths and where we have weaknesses. I would like to admit because otherwise I would become unfaithful to my line that we also have a number of weaknesses, and I will also briefly mention them: [[Abg. Meisinger: You have been unfaithful to the line for ten years!]] We are still not very good at working time. We have the fourth shortest working time in Europe and still have too little flexibility in working time. [[Abg. Meisinger: Chamber of Commerce!]] We are still poor – overall; the industry is better – in the capitalization of our businesses, especially in tourism. We are still poor about the high level of bureaucracy, no question at all. So we have not only success, but in no country in the world can a government only have success! [[Abg. May. Peter: We could have a little more!]] Of course, we must be so honest as to admit that there are also flaws, Mr President, we know that just as well as you do. The only difference is that the government, as well as the majority of parliament, is dealing with things seriously and honestly. As an example, Mr Peter, as an example of the opposition to things, I recall your colleague Hazelsteiner's speech – I would not have mentioned it if you had not made an interlocutory call – when he referred to the subject of right of takeover, takeover law. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: Very good speech!]] Ladies and gentlemen! In connection with the right of takeover, the Takeover Act must be said that for months university professors, business loyals, senior officials, business directors, leading directors in our country, have been forced to establish a modern European right of takeover. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: Where is it?]] And what did Mr Hazelsteiner say about this? – In many European countries, it has already been possible to write it down only that it is a work of four hours, and the matter has been done. Ladies and gentlemen! We can only be grateful that the Liberal Forum does not bear any government responsibility, has no majority in this House, and will never have a majority in it. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: (making the cross sign towards speaker) Two years too late!]] [[Further calls to the Liberal Forum.]] For governance and economic policy action is certainly not as simple as Mr Hazelsteiner has described here. That should also be said, Mr Kier! To propose to write a foreign law and to say that with a work of four hours it is done, that is insidious. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] This is, however, the way in which the opposition takes place over and over again. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: That's where the right person speaks!]] Ladies and gentlemen! As my voluntary speaking time is already coming to an end, I conclude. I agree with my clubman Khol – and I hope the Minister of Finance will be pleased – that we must continue the successful consolidation course in recent years. This is a permanent challenge as the world situation is constantly changing, and we will pay very close attention to how individual budget positions develop. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: Go!]] We must pay great attention to the fact that neither there nor there the reins will be loosened. I just mention three examples: Care money – the effort increases again. The question is whether this is necessary. With the national teachers who are recruited by the countries but are paid by the federal government, the effort is rising again. The clinical additional burden is increasing again. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: In the case of unemployment insurance, the effort is falling!]] So you have to pay very, very much attention to that. We must continue this consolidation course and, even if it is perhaps unpopular, Mr Kier, we will continue in the next few years to have scope for action for employment policy and also scope for action for tax reform. Also this is a small minus point, I like to give it to: We have a very high tax and tax rate. The tax reform must therefore not only bring about structural improvements, but must also be a relief under the rule. We also need budgetary discipline for this, and we also need to continue this successful course of government in budgetary policy.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e10009	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Trattner. 10 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e10030	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Finance! High house! Mr President, I should like to thank you for your support. Interview "Tyroler Newspaper": "Austrian transporting heavy loads." [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: I spoke against the tax rate!]] They are still talking about a tax rate of 43.4 percent. – Mr President, we have 45.7 percent tax rate! I don't think you've read the budget all the way through. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Read the budget documents!]] Today, criticism has become loud on the part of the government parties that the opposition parties have repeatedly claimed that the budget does not correspond to the truth. We have now been presented with two budgets: the 1996 budget and the 1997 budget, each with small commitments. Of course, it's easy to say from the government bank: Dear opposition, what do you want? Everything you predicted has not come true. But what happened? – In 1998, so-called tax assets in the order of 15.8 billion schilling were transferred to tax revenue. This position is again included in the 1999 budget with 4 billion schillings. As part of the ASFINAG allocations, in a scale of 80 billion schillings – I am still talking to the ASFINAG – one has sold claims from the Water Economic Fund, in the order of 4.6 billion schilling, has been asked to reorganise the communities to market-orientated companies such as water supply, waste disposal, sewer clearance and so on, so that they can be removed from public debt. What happened? – The fees for households – wastewater, sewerage, garbage – have therefore increased by 30 to 40 percent. This was not an expenditure saving, but simply an additional burden on Austrian citizens, who, in any case, paid 147 billion Schilling more taxes from 1995 to 1998, of which 107 billion remained with the federal government. And then you still write a budget deficit in the order of 70 billion schilling! [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] Now the citizens have already paid over 147 billion schilling more taxes, which are per adult Austrian 25 000 S, say 30 percent more than in 1995, and you still have a deficit in the order of 70 billion schilling. If you understand this by successful budget consolidation, then you are really in a dream country and not in the reality of budget policy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Finanzminister! We have repeatedly criticised the failure of the accounts to vote. The accounts do not vote either because the federal government is becoming more and more poor payers. The federal government acts as a poor payer by simply not being paid by the federal government for payment obligations due on the due date. This is not an invention on the part of the opposition – you only need to look at the asset bill in the federal financial law. Mr Finanzminister! In addition to the financial debt in the order of 1,400 billion schilling, we have supplier liabilities of 226 billion schilling and other debt of 128 billion schilling. Of these debts – which you yourself admit in the calculation of assets and debt – 13,1 billion schillings were overdue to the closing date of the federal accounts in 1996. 13,1 billion schillings, of which you yourself admit that they are overdue! In this way, you have ensured that the budget implementation could be respected. That is to say, it is true what the opposition parties have repeatedly criticized here: The budget implementation is not correct. You have higher debts than you indicate, and you are more in delay than it used to be. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Finanzminister! In your budget speech, you mentioned investment projects in the order of 23.4 billion schilling in the so-called extra-budgetary area. The Federal Government's gross investment in the budget is 11 billion schilling. The economy is investing at least 619 billion schillings, the federal government 11 billion schillings, and you are celebrating 23.4 billion schillings that are being used extra-budgetaryly for investments as a success! Of these, 12 billion go to the rail infrastructure society, and the rest goes mostly to the ASFINAG. ASFINAG is the next problem facing the door. At ASFINAG, it looks as the "Tyrol daily" writes: ASFINAG is in front of the pleite. In this year's ASFINAG has only an equity of 4.3 billion schillings, recorded revenue from tolls in the order of 6.3 billion schillings in the year and has expenses for the maintenance or closure of road gaps of 8.2 billion schillings, so that in 2006 negative capital will amount to 10.6 billion schillings at ASFINAG. You expect this ASFINAG to invest 10 billion schilling annually, although it will be most likely or fairly safe in the coming years. They have put 8.5 billion schilling in the ASFINAG out of the privatisation of the federal shares of CA/Bank Austria, of which half have disappeared again. – These are your structural solutions! Mr Finanzminister! This is about the quality of debt. The earlier argument was: Deficiencies, resulting in higher debt due to investments that will bring something for the future. However, they are not able to finance even close investment. They stop only budget holes through the burden of the population, and you have not planned any structural solutions for the future. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Finanzminister! You've set up a drop of 70 billion schilling in the Federal estimates. This is about 2.8 billion more than in 1998. They boast that this is only 2.6% in relation to gross domestic product. But if we look at the gross domestic product in 1998, with a magnitude of 2 580 billion schilling, and that of 1999 with 2 735 billion schilling, and remembering that you expect a nominal economic growth of 4.5 per cent in 1999, I must say that I would have liked to know how much you have calculated from the so-called fictitious blackwork into this gross domestic product. Mr Finanzminister! They always expect the great export success – also in the budget. The fact that there is export success is correct. Growth expectations were 9 percent in 1998, 10.6 percent in 1999. In 1999, the share of exports in gross domestic product will be 31 percent. But on the other hand, private consumption is stagnating. It actually increases by 1.5 percent in 1998 and by 1.8 percent in real terms in 1999. But you know very well that employment is primarily secured by domestic demand, and that is the problem. They hope for export success. However, the liberals call for emphasis to be placed on strengthening domestic demand for jobs. Mr Novotny said that employment will rise by 1 per cent in 1998. You write in your paper, in the Federal Finance Act, for 1998 an increase of only 0.2 percent is expected. – This is the reality we have to deal with. We only analyse the data you have written in the budget, in the federal financial law itself. In view of the fact that domestic demand is the most important factor in securing jobs for Austrians, go beyond that and do nothing at all for a tax reform, for a punctual rapid tax reform which is necessary to safeguard jobs. They always announce it for the year 2000. With this budget, you probably have no way of finding a margin of action to make a tax reform. They only want to make a tax reform that is non-profitable and does not lead to the discharge of Austrian taxpayers. That is why we will also reject this federal financial law.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e10105	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Peter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e10127	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Let me return to the somewhat embarrassing jubilation at the beginning of this debate when Novotny and Khol let us know what a solid and serious budget they are presenting. [[Abg. Böhacker: Hallelujah!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Is it serious to increase the debt of this state by 1.3 billion schilling per week? Is it serious to use Bench-marking as stupid, namely, to always compare with the bad ones? Does Bench-marking not mean to compare with the best and to wonder how we can achieve their values? The addresses of thanks given to the Minister of Finance by the members of the coalition are really embarrassing. It is quite embarrassing if coalition members do not understand their duties as Members of Parliament. Of course, you will decide by a majority on the budget. But each one of you has some criticism points to make. I'll throw the pink glasses in front of you because you're giving us cheer messages here. I will also try to put positive things in the foreground as opposed things, but also clearly the wounds to show the mistakes of this budget. What do professionals say... [[Federal Minister Edlinger: I got the cake from the Haselsteiner!]] Unfortunately, I don't have a second one. That's all you can eat, Minister. That's too much sugar. [[Abg. Böhacker: Maybe you'll bring an apple twirl next time!]] The OECD lets us know that in the current economic situation, a deficit of 2.6 percent is too high. It is expected to be up to 2 per cent in order to ultimately be able to counter it in worse economic times without exceeding the 3 per cent mark. Wifo and IHS let us know the same thing. They even think that the deficit should be only 1 to 1.5 percent. The European Monetary Institute considers that this deficit ratio will not enable us to counter economic downturn. Where Walterskirchen from the Economic Research Institute takes the courage to predict an unbroken upturn for the next five to ten years, I do not know. Ladies and gentlemen! Even more curious are the jubilation reports of Mr Khol, who explained to us that the equity situation of the Austrian economy had improved so much. - That's an insanity! That's just not true. Unfortunately, it's not true! Neither the cash flow nor the equity situation have improved if you look away from a narrow segment of successful export industry. On the basis of the annual accounts and cumulations issued annually by the National Bank, it can be seen that self-financing in the field of property production and construction decreases by about 10 to 15 percent. The final figures for Austrian businesses show that the equity ratio in this area is falling from just under 6 percent to about 5 percent. Cash flows are experiencing declines, both the corrected cash flow in percentages of net proceeds – I don't want to overwhelm Khol now; it's not here anyway – as well as the corrected cash flow in percentages of foreign capital, which are everywhere in declines. And then the clubman of a party comes to the speaker's desk and explains such a nonsense, namely that the equity ratio is rising in Austria. He should throw out his employee, who writes him such crazy numbers. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: He doesn't understand!]] If he doesn't understand them, don't let him quote them! It's annoyed! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! All the political groups in this House keep saying... Yes. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: You have the perspective, right?]] You know, I'm studying what the National Bank is doing. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: I'm full of admiration!]] Thank you. The times of change, which we all conjure up here, face a budget of a standstill; It was silently reserved to re-argu this standstill in – literally – "stability and continuity". This is threatening, Minister of Finance! In my opinion, it is a dangerous threat if you are presenting a budget for the downside at a time when the world is changing so much, especially the working world – we have far more than 80 percent structural unemployment and a maximum of 20 percent economic – a budget which is a budget that must be implemented urgently in order to make the labour market more active – on deregulation measures with a social eye, on flexibilization measures with a social eye. We need to rethink our social network so that this greatest contribution to political culture really does, even in difficult times, which can come – perhaps earlier than we believe, you only have to look at the financial markets. They called it "Budget of Honesty", Minister of Finance. You said openly: That's all I can do! – I say openly to you, Minister of Finance: That's not enough! They risk a further re-indebtedness of 70 billion, of 1.3 billion schilling a week in times of better economic activity. That means: To finance your budget, you need to increase your debt by 1.3 billion schilling every week – 52 times a year. Do you want to continue the path that seven Social Democratic Finance Ministers have taken? Androsch, Salcher, Vranckky, Lacina, Staribacher, Klima and now Edlinger. Do you want to continue so that in 30 years' time, we've tripled government debt? Damn it! Economic performance has only increased. This means that public debt has grown five times faster than economic performance. Today we have to pay significantly more than 20 percent for interest from the net income of the federal government. That, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats, is the classic redistribution from bottom to top! All pay taxes, VAT, also the single mother and the compensatory allowance pay VAT on milk. And more than 20 percent of this money goes to the wealthy in our country who have money that they lend to the state. You don't have any more room for free – that's the terrible thing about this budget! – to counter any economic downturn. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Of course, our unemployment statistics show only 250 000 unemployed. I would like to praise the Austrian Federal Government: They have achieved a European peak in youth employment. My compliment! But this should not prevent us from defining and addressing unemployment clearly. It is not 250 000 people, it is a total – you know it as I do – 500 000, if not 600 000 people, some of whom we just have a different, better "parked". It is certainly a success to "park" them better, but then to brag with unemployment statistics and to think that we are the European Union's masters in this field, I think it is wrong. The national employment plan you have presented is a paper that you have broken down. In the planning phase there was good will, but ultimately helplessness came out. Please read your national employment plan! What does it contain except for platinum? – It is precisely what is in the European Union’s national employment plan; it is only rewritten. If, as you stupidly said, you need two years to develop something like this, I have to say: I'd rather keep it with Hazelsteiner. The translation of the national employment plan from Luxembourg could have been carried out in four hours! Ladies and gentlemen! 30 years of your policy have brought a cost-induced state. It's a cost-overloaded state! You, Mr Finanzminister, and your ministerial colleagues do not make it possible to bring about a real structural change in the cost of this state. It's not a reduction in benefits. I say here, ladies and gentlemen, that you could also do the same in the state at a much lower cost. Putting this effort into practice But you are not, or you are unable to really enforce it. – "A budget of honesty, that's all I could do!", the Minister of Finance himself said. We have the highest tax and tax rate. More you will not be able to reduce the Austrian taxes and taxes. [[Abg. Böhäcker: You are wrong!]] We have a real growth of 2.5, almost 3 percent, and we have an excellent export economy. Is that not the time, Mr. Finanzminister, to reduce the debt and not to increase it by 70 billion? Have you read only the first half of the versions of Keynes? Haven't you read the second half of Keynes? Or do you really want to be the seventh Minister of Finance in the 30 years of the Social Democrats in this post, which continues to drive public debt up and thus further endanger the future of our children and the future of the elderly people sitting here? 70 billion schilling additional debt despite a peak economy, in the case of declining gross investment, in the case of declining economic promotion – minus one fifth in five years. Interests are rising absolutely – despite a relatively declining interest rate – and that means 13 000 S of interest per capita per year. All Austrians have to pay at least 13 000 s of taxes in order to be able to serve only the interest rates, for debts that have been entered in advance of the future and again on the future and again on the future. Ladies and gentlemen! We spend ten times as much on interest as on research and development – that is the truth of the 1999 budget! You – and I say this again in all clarity – do not have control of the costs of this state! There are many achievements in this state that work perfectly – Austria is a working community of first class – but ask what costs you are providing these services at. In its "World Economic Outlook", the International Monetary Fund calls on you to take advantage of the hour to use the favor of a high economy to solve the real problems, to find the structural budget deficits, and to respond to the demographic changes. You know the time bomb that's ticking in the aging of our society. With the pension reform you have provided neither in the ASVG sector nor in the field of officials nor in the social networks for worse times, which may or may be quite safe – think of our financial markets! – one day will come. Ladies and gentlemen! I cannot see any investment in the future in this budget of the standstill. Research and development continue in benchmarking in the last third of the European Union. The comprehensive reform of the educational system fails at the teachers' union. We still need to impart verifiable knowledge instead of training team-powered, curious, open people. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: You haven't been to school for a long time, colleague Peter!]] – But I have two daughters who have just finished school, and I can say it’s a mourning game, what’s going on there. The expansion of the infrastructure in Austria is largely inconvenient. We have now come to an end, after 20 years, that we need to expand the railway infrastructure. The high-level road network is still not completed in Austria 50 years after the war. And above all – that is what has the most painful effect, ladies and gentlemen! –: The Austrian data networks do not meet the future standard of an information society. This state needs too much money, it takes away all the citizens, including the socially weak, too much, and still can only carry out its distribution function most inadequately. What makes me the most concerned is that in a country that is getting richer every day, the income scarcity continues to disperse and the social weakness is becoming increasingly weak in the area of poverty. Federal Minister! With this budget you have really only found the smallest common denominator, as you said to the "Kurier" in November 1997. There remains a budget of the standstill, to which the Liberals will not give their approval.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e10273	Mr Oellinger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e10300	Mr President. Federal Minister! Does it mean that now that I am speaking, you have eliminated the flame of hope again, Minister of State? [[Federal Minister Edlinger: Only with the Liberals!]] I was so happy. Only the Liberals burned it. Somehow it could have given me some comfort if the budget was not enough, Minister of State. Mr Khol obviously presented the latest version of the National Employment Action Plan to the Green Club one hour ago, but I was unable to discover anything in this latest convoluted convoluted, despite one hour's search and fierce foliage, which, first of all, would have given rise to some indication of a specific number of the hopes that the candle should represent. A paper is being prepared in which the social partners – which is to be – were obviously involved, but in contrast to the papers that were available two months ago, every number is missing. This alone would not be so bad if you, Mr Federal Minister, were to get up and tell us and promise us: The money we need is already there! – But I’m afraid, first of all, you won’t get up and promise me, and second, there’s no money either. I can only say that two or three months ago in this national employment plan it was said that 3 to 5 billion schillings are to be added annually, Mr Feurstein, in the field of active labour market policy. It was also called very concrete detail posts at the time, but all this is missing now. Now I can only go back on the budget, on the proposal, and in this there are 1.5 billion – a billion of it is created by the conversion of passives into active achievements, and half a billion comes from somewhere, it will come from somewhere, and it will be used for business promotions. Federal Minister! I am now reading to you what the Chamber of Labour of Upper Austria wrote about this in a last week's issue: The national employment plan also needs budget resources to be implemented. It must not only be decided that it also needs financial resources to implement the measures, otherwise it will not even be the paper on which it stands. In any event, it cannot be implemented with the current resources of the labour market service, the Committee on Economic Affairs of the Upper Austria Chamber of Labour noted. I also read to you what the head of the AMS said already in mid-March: In order to be able to move forward one step and actually develop employment-saving, employment-enhancing measures within the meaning of the National Action Plan, the AMS would need a doubling of the funds for active labour market promotion – from currently 7 billion schilling, including ESF funding, to 14 billion schilling. But now I cannot find one with certainty in this plan: that there would be only one indication somewhere that there is indeed an increase in funds in this area. There is no reference to this in the budget either. However, I have found something else, Mr Federal Minister, which is the continuation of the policy which my colleague Van der Bellen has already described: the continuation of the inventiveness of budgetary policy from 1997 and 1998 also in 1999. I would like to add something to my colleague's remarks: quite imaginative tricks. One of your most popular methods – I am not speaking to you as a person, Mr. Federal Minister, but your function – is – we have already criticized this in recent years, Mr. Minister – that from one budget pot to another one is "succeeded". For example, in the 1999 budget pot in the area of unemployment insurance, there is still a withdrawal of funds of 8 billion schilling – 8 billion schilling! – provided for the purposes of pension insurance. 8 billion schilling! In this context, it must be remembered that last week Mr Khol wanted to send the emergency relief workers to the streets, that the emergency relief workers wanted to get rid of the dog's stumbles, and then look at what the chapter unemployment insurance will prevent emergency workers – not only foreign, but also domestic ones – from holding back what they do not receive. What they receive is less than what is taken from them. A total of 8 billion Schillings are not spent on emergency aid recipients. However, 8 billion schillings are taken out of the unemployment insurance sector to serve as a small drop in the pension system – more than all of Austria’s emergency workers receive a total of one year, more than what is spent on active labour market policy, as only 7 billion schillings are planned for them. And that is where my problem begins, Mr Federal Minister: in 1999, with the draft budget for it, you may be lucky again, because in 1999 the last year in which the backflows from the ESF are due, i.e. 1.5 billion schilling. In 2000, Mr Federal Minister, you know, we all know that, there will no longer be any return flows of 1.5 billion schilling; perhaps half a billion, perhaps less, perhaps, but perhaps nothing at all in this area. But then we will find ourselves in the situation that the unemployment rate has not yet developed so rosily and that the resources for active labour market policy are far below that - far below that! – what we are now making available, but that is far from enough. I can tell you one thing, Mr Federal Minister, even if you are using the low unemployment figures in Austria to justify the low expenditure on active labour market policy: Switzerland spends much more on active labour market policies at similar low unemployment rates than Austria. Switzerland, which always looks at its state bag, is doing more in this area. Switzerland is spending more because it knows that these funds are necessary for the labour market, that they are needed for measures you have described in this employment plan completely inadequately. That is why your employment plan lacks any provision on specific objectives, on stages, on times, on deadlines, on instruments and on resources, on money! I have spoken about the fact that we spend very little on active labour market policy. However, in 2000 – we are not yet talking about this budget – expenditure will continue to fall. And I say, Minister of State: We will probably find it difficult to meet these targets in 1999 because you have to save somewhere in this area, because your data, budget information, with which you have prepared this budget in the area of unemployment insurance, cannot be kept. They don't think they're 1998. You know, Minister of State. One of the usual imaginative methods when creating a budget is: There is still a relatively favourable forecast – there is – and that for 1998 was 6.8 or 6.9% unemployment. However, we now hold – depending on the institute; the IHS speaks of 7.1 percent, the economic research institute calculates 7.3 percent – with a 1998 forecast of about 7 percent unemployment. Every tenth percent unemployment, which goes beyond the 1998 budget, costs half a billion schilling. Where are you from, Mr. Federal Minister? . I mean, there will again be very tricky medium shifts, in the unemployment insurance budget, but certainly not in favour of an active labour market policy. I believe that active labour market policy will continue to be one of the losers of this budget. And I have not yet talked about the 1999 budget, for which the same will apply to the 1998 budget. Federal Minister! I have only taken out this one area and presented to you the expenditure on emergency aid. These are less than what is converted from the budget into pension insurance. Expenditure on active labour market policies is also less than what is transformed into pension insurance. They work as usual – there has been in the past and is done so even in the present time – with forecasts of unemployment that cannot and will not keep. This is foreseeable because unemployment is already higher in this year than the forecast for which the budget has been drawn up. They work with non-sustainable figures and, of course, indirectly burdened not only the 1998 budget or other items of the budget, but also, as is usual, the 1999 budget through an advance. And that's where my problem with this budget lies. It's not just unimaginative in general, but it's really not the big throw that could lead you to the Austrians: We are making efforts in the field of youth employment and also in the field of employment of older unemployed people. You do not have any ideas about what to do with those who are between 40 and 60 years old and are currently becoming much more unemployed than they have in the past. This is, of course, also a result of a policy that transforms the scarce resources from one area to another, namely that of the younger unemployed. Unfortunately, however, there is nothing more to be done there, in essence, because it breaks the imagination because it breaks on courage and on advanced, innovative ideas. Not even in the area of young people you can go a little further. Federal Minister! They know – and this is my last point – that in 1997 for the German Chancellor's promise, all young people will be employed, 2 billion schillings have been spent on federal funds. This amount came from the labour market service budget, which was raised by the removal of the health insurance contribution. As a result, 3 000 young people have been employed more than in the previous year. Now I do not need to explain to you, Minister of Finance, the amount per capita. 2 billion schilling divided by 3,000 young people results in a grand sum per youth! In order to increase the employment of 3 000 young people, 20 000 young people had to be encouraged in order to achieve this effect at all. And now you are making the continuation of this policy: They create new reliefs for employers. They still believe that if the apprentice becomes a little cheaper for the entrepreneur, the 1.5 percent accident insurance will be cheaper if a small scraper is turned, then more young people will be employed than before. I can tell you now: This policy will: Don't move on! They have failed extremely in all the concepts relating to the education of young people who could make it possible to qualify young people who do not live in the dual education system! What you are describing is that these plans you have for the young people are nothing but to put them into any school banker so that they have been deprived of the labour market for at least a time. If possible, this should go about until the next elections, and what comes after that, you obviously don't care. You have not presented any ideas in this employment plan. Young people may be allowed to press the school bench longer. I ask you: With what perspective? What is being developed in this youth employment plan? – There is nothing, no imagination and no perspective on what could be made productive from the crisis, in which the dual education system has also come into being, in the sense of qualifying measures for young people, of innovative ideas in the school sector – I also believe that there could be something to do there – or in the sense of an extension towards the trial training system. There's a lot of possibilities there. There are numerous ideas that are not so new at all and that one could have assumed if only one had really been interested in them. But what you have succeeded, Mr Federal Minister, is, in fact, just the continuation of the 1997 budget situation to 1998 and to 1999. They use the same means and the same methods, this plan has no future, no imagination and does not offer innovation – neither in the interest of young people nor in the interest of other unemployed people, nor even in the interest of those who really need it most from employment! Little has been done. There are no even figures in this national employment plan! The main thing is, you've agreed. Mainly, you can be on time and good on 15. as one of the EU's preferred students to deliver a plan. But if the EU Commission perhaps comes up with the idea of examining this plan for concrete instruments, I would like you, Minister of State, to be able to re-ignite your candle again. Then I wish you much success and fun – and that you can also explain to the ladies and gentlemen of the European Commission why you are making an employment plan, which is not to be found in everything that needs to be done.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e10345	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Guggenberger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e10366	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Dr. Hazelsteiner has re-examined and found that this was the 29th anniversary. The budget is presented by a Social Democratic Finance Minister. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: That's right!]] Let us ask ourselves: After these 29 years of socially democratically dominated government in that country, what has – take everything in all? – We have a wealth in Austria, which can only be dreamed of in most countries of the world! Above all, we lack this sharp difference between the poor and the rich, as it is going and giving in much of the world. We have established a remarkable network of social security. People can grow old with us in dignity. Mr Oellinger! Because you were on the pult before, I can remind you that your colleague – the name is missing at the moment – was the victim of an robbery in Brussels. [[Abg. Oellinger: Voggenhuber!]] Right, colleague Voggenhuber. How could I forget that?- Oh, my God! . He has become the victim of a robbery and his only attempt was to be transferred to Austria immediately and as quickly as possible, knowing that in our country the standard of medical care is far better than in Brussels, and that is the capital of the European Union. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: That's not art!]] Because Mr Niederwieser is looking at me, I would like to say: We know that there has only recently been an international study that attests to our compulsory school graduates and also to the higher students a top performance, not least in the field of natural sciences and – you hear and marvel – also in the field of computer knowledge. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] It might sound banal, but I'd like to mention it anyway: When you turn on the faucet, water pours out everywhere in Austria. For this quality of life You pay for money elsewhere! And if you go through the streets at midnight in Linz or Vienna or Innsbruck or Salzburg, you don't need to worry and not be afraid that you're going to be a victim of an attack here. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Yes!]] – These are all signs of a tremendous quality of life. All this is an expression of security in this country that others can only dream of. We have not least – and this should be said once again; once a run for the civil service – a functioning public service. [[General condolences.]] So this policy, so the budgets, the Social Democratic Finance Ministers – seven in number – have heard me today – can have been so bad in these 29 years! We should actually have the size of recognizing that. Especially in a year when we take over the Presidency of the European Union, and at a time when the eyes of at least Europe are focused on our country, we should contribute to our Austrian example of our model Austrian way of learning in Europe. It is not excessive self-confidence to say that many European countries could learn from us, namely from our way of carrying out social and economic conflicts of interest, to keep low social tensions, not to allow the already mentioned scratches of differences between the poor and the rich, and above all not to let them down in the fight against unemployment. [[Abg. Oillinger: But this is strong tobak!]] With this budget presented to Parliament by the Federal Minister for Finance, we are laying a new foundation for the continuation of this policy. It was certainly not easy to maintain all this in recent years. It has already been said several times in the context of this debate: The public deficit of 5.2 percent of gross domestic product within three years more than halve was anything but an easy task! That was anything but a honey lick. But it has succeeded – even though the economic conditions were anything but easy in 1996 in particular. So today we can say proudly: The state finances have been fixed. We are in the middle of an economic upturn. In 1999, income will increase significantly, will private consumption, will be able to increase exports of goods. The economic researchers are predicting a growth of up to 3 percent. Inflation and interest rates will not least be relatively low due to the perspective of the euro. In fact, we have every reason to be quite optimistic and with some confidence in the next few years. Why should we not be proud that, as Austrians, we have managed to announce the fulfilment of the criteria which are the prerequisite for participating in monetary union? Ladies and gentlemen! The economic researchers are predicting that employment will increase and unemployment will decline. Nevertheless: We must not and will not lose sight of the efforts to reduce unemployment. To create work for Austria is a focus of this budget. The Federal Minister has already made this very clear in his budget speech. Together with budget expenditure on economic promotion, industrial and commercial support, labour market policy and agriculture, some 52 billion schilling will benefit directly from the security and creation of jobs in our country in 1999. Let me say one last word about the National Employment Action Plan. It was due, in turn, to the initiative of the Austrian Federal Government that this concerted approach was taken across Europe. We are confident that we will succeed in creating the 100 000 jobs that we consider to be. However, the matter already contains a wormhead drop. While there are very strict sanctions in the area of non-compliance with the convergence criteria, when we are going to join the euro – one has to count on fees of 3 or 5 or 10 or 12 billion schilling – there are no sanctions to prevent a country from complying with its national employment action plans. - That's a shame. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Barmüller.]] This will certainly not prevent us in Austria from fully implementing this national action plan for employment and actually safeguarding the 100 000 additional jobs that will be associated with it! This budget, the 1999 budget, lays a good foundation for this.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e10482	Mr Feurstein. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Please, honourable Member. In 14 minutes, however, the urgent request must be made.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e10504	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! If one has followed the debate this morning and now in the afternoon, then one has become very clear – we experience it again and again –: The opposition tries to show any defects – this time, however, with other signs. In the past, it was sometimes true that weaknesses have been clarified. But today you have only one argument: They doubt the forecasts, the forecasts on unemployment, the forecasts on the development of the economy and so on. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition parties! That's a weak argument. But I understand that you have a hard time admitting that the consolidation course initiated by the Federal Government in 1996 was successful. Ladies and gentlemen! He was successful and he will continue to be successful. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] However, I agree with a small comment on Mr Guggenberger's comments. Ladies and gentlemen! For the first time in these 29 years, in which Socialist or Social Democratic Finance Ministers were responsible for the budget, such a consolidation course was launched in 1986/87. They certainly remember that a very massive reduction in the budget deficit was carried out at the time. The second consolidation course was launched after the 1995 elections, which the EIA considered necessary – I emphasize: they were not forced, but considered necessary – and Minister of Finance and Finance Edlinger continued this consolidation course. I therefore believe that there has been a fundamental change in this area, also in relation to the time when the Freedom Party in the Ministry of Finance was co-responsible. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: That was a disaster, the Holger Bauer!]] At that time, the deficits were increased year after year and the social security contributions were constantly increased, ladies and gentlemen. Our policy is thus fundamentally different from that of the Freedom Party in the years 1983 to 1986. This is a fundamental change of policy, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Reichhold.]] Yeah, I wanted to tell you that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Mr Colleague! Do you confirm the importance of selecting the climber?- Oh, my God!]] I'll have you judged by the climber. The climber wasn't my husband. I never chose him, but you probably chose him. I am convinced that you have once chosen the Dr Steger, ladies and gentlemen of the Freeman. That's how it was, but that's your thing. Don't come with Dr. Steger! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Now I'm coming with Dr. Graff!]] Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, a paradigm change in politics came in 1996. I would like to say this quite clearly. There was a fundamental reorientation, not only in budgetary policy, but also in labour market policy. I now call you a few numbers: In 1994 we spent 25.4 billion schilling for the unemployed and emergency aid recipients. In 1999, there will be 26.7 billion schilling. Ladies and gentlemen! This is not due to the fact that a person who is entitled to unemployment benefit does not receive emergency aid, but rather to the introduction of necessary changes to avoid abuse in these areas, as was already stated in the 1990 Government Convention. Structural changes have been introduced by various measures. In return, the resources of active labour market policy from 1994 to 1997 – for this year we have already increased the final figures – from 5.6 to 7.1 billion schilling. A third more for active labour market policy! This is what I call a complete reorientation of labour market policy. And that's how it goes, ladies and gentlemen. For 1999, in part for 1998, the National Action Plan for Employment provides for 20 percent of unemployment benefits, emergency aid payments, job creation and employment promotion, to be more integrated into an employment relationship. When this is done – and it is done! – then, in 1999 at least 10 billion schilling will be available for active labour market policy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schaffenrath.]] What Mr Oellinger said in this regard is simply not correct. 10 billion schilling for active labour market policy! This will enable us to create incentives for employment, so that we can stimulate it. Employment opportunities are, of course, created jointly by entrepreneurs and workers in the economy. This is an essential impetus, which is set by this National Action Plan, but in particular by means of the budget. There are several measures that signal this reorientation of labour market policy. We have decided on them for the most part. For example, I call the special integration aid for emergency aid recipients. I call the non-profit integration aid, the special actions of the AMS and the promotion of apprentices, in which the EIA, I think, has really made a breakthrough in today's and yesterday's negotiations. Do not deny that we will reduce apprenticeship training by paying fewer social security contributions and by providing a very special promotion of apprenticeship training in tax law! Temporarily This is not because this is a very essential measure, which has now been started and decided, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Because you made a call, Mrs Schaffenrath: Youth unemployment has been greatly reduced and from February to March 1998, 5 500 young people have been unemployed or seeking employment. 1 200 young people are less likely to find work or be unemployed over the last year. And these are not people who were transferred to early retirement. Here has really been a labour market policy – I say it again: together with the companies, together with the people who work in the economy. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: What happens when these promotions fail?]] A fundamental change has also been made in the pension insurance sector. Mr Schweitzer, I call you only two figures. In 1995, when we drew attention to the fact that the financing of pension insurance and the whole pension policy cannot continue to go that way, a federal grant, including compensation allowances, of 68.4 billion Schilling. [[Abg. Gaugg: Ten years you have slept!]] In 1999, Mr Gaugg, there will be 71.2 billion schilling. Every year 1 per cent more, only 1 per cent more – not by taking someone’s pension, but by introducing sensible structural measures. And I say quite consciously: without increases in contributions. Even in health insurance, rehabilitation was carried out without increases in contributions. [[Abg. Gaugg: That's not true!]] These are measures that you, of course, do not like to hear, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, because you did not achieve this in your time, when you were responsible for government, with a State Secretary, Bauer, who is still in your ranks today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] This change, Mr Stadler, could still be explained in many other examples. But I also say quite clearly: This budget consolidation must not be self-evident, but must be accompanied by the objective – I now call the primary concern – of ensuring the social security of people in our country. A third of the budget's expenditure, presented by the Minister of Finance, is spent on social welfare. A third! I do not know a state which has a similar share of social security expenditure throughout the budget, especially if one still calculates the social security benefits for the sick, for the disabled, for people in need of rehabilitation, for pensions, for those in need of an accident and so on. There is no comparable state! In this area we are the leaders, ladies and gentlemen. And we want to be the leader in this field in the future. We won't let that happen. Above all, we will not accept any revolutionary changes that some of us are constantly demanding from the Liberal Forum. They want a revolutionary change in our social policy with all possible proposals. In addition, Mrs Dr Schmidt, I say a clear no, also to what Mr Haselsteiner said today. We don't want that! We want an evolutionary, a sustainable social policy, which takes account of people's behaviour and takes into account changes in these behaviours constantly. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: What do you think we want?]] That is why we are also in favour of the fact that social policy and budgetary policy are constantly subject to the new requirements and that they must be taken into account, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Why don't you do it?]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e10695	It is at 3 p.m. to call the urgent request. Mr Schreiner would be speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. However, only two and a half minutes are available. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e10716	Mr President. Federal Minister for Finance! This 1999 budget is the fourth budget since you promised the Austrians to submit a budget programme to the House from 1995 onwards, covering the two-thirds increase in expenditure from savings and one-third from additional revenue. Mr Klubobmann Khol admitted today that this has unfortunately not been achieved. He's right. He is really right with this statement in his speech. Mr Bundesfinanzminister! The increase in wage tax from 88 billion Schilling in 1989 to 198 billion Schilling in 1999 alone shows that you have actually done something in fiscal consolidation, which could be described as "modern-day raubriterism". Mr and Mrs Österreicher had to do more and more in the years from 1989 to 1999 with virtually all types of tax. You have taken more and more of Mr and Mrs Österreicher in your pocket. Mr Bundesfinanzminister! I want to fix this to a few numbers. I have already mentioned the wage tax: 88 billion schilling in 1989, now 198 billion schilling. Corporate tax: 14 billion schilling in 1989, now 48 billion schilling. Sales tax increased from 144 billion Schilling to 233 billion Schilling. With the mineral oil tax – I took out a few examples – the rise from 18 billion Schilling to 35 billion Schilling.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e10744	Excuse me, honourable Member, I have to Unfortunately, you are now interrupting to call the urgent request as agreed at 3 p.m. Of course, the wording remains true. [[I should like to congratulate the liberals for the Abg, who left the speaker's desk. May. Schreiner.]] Request for urgent procedure by Mr Rudolf Schwarzböck, Georg Schwarzenberger, Mr Jakob Auerund Comrades to the Federal Minister for Agriculture and Forestry on Agenda 2000 – Assurance of Farm Agriculture (4023/J)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e10786	We are now entering the urgent debate on the written question 4023/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e10950	On the grounds of the question, I give the floor to Mr Schwarzböck. I would point out that, according to business regulations, the maximum speaking time is 20 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e10972	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== In July 1998, Austria took over the Presidency of the Council in the European Union, at a time marked by important European political challenges. ==References== In a Commission decision, the European Union adopted the legislative proposals on Agenda 2000, which are now under negotiation. It is expected that political decisions will be taken at the end of this year or in the first half of 1999. A few weeks ago, the Foreign Ministers' Conference started the enlargement process with the first round of talks by the Foreign Ministers of the candidate countries. In an extremely important period of time in the Presidency of the Council, Austria has a responsibility that goes far beyond the interests of our country. The recent membership of Austria, but above all from the immediate neighbourhood to the candidate countries, gives a very special starting point for the Austrian interests in the context of these important processes of discussions on Agenda 2000 and, ultimately, the enlargement of the European Union. The focus of this Agenda 2000 is on the continuation of the European Union's agricultural policy, the market regulation and many other issues of the internal constitution. After the agricultural policy is the area which shows the deepest community and also uses considerable budget figures, of course, not only the interest of the peasantry, the food industry, the inhabitants of the rural area, but ultimately also the attention of many more politically interested in this political development, because, in the end, the Council's political decision represents the European Union's declaration of government for the period 2000 to 2006. In the preparations for accession to the European Union, Austria's agriculture has generated a great deal of attention and awareness in the implementation of the first three and a half years, far beyond the area of those directly concerned and those interested in the profession. In the context of the EU accession negotiations, 85 percent of all Austrians claimed that agriculture, which is dominant in Austria, the land-based, environmentally-orientated and sustainable for decades and centuries, should also be maintained in this harder, greater competition and in the wider context. The internal policy, which has developed in Austria in recent years, is not only characterised by these programme objectives of an eco-social, sustainable and environmentally responsible agriculture, but also in structural terms, the internal-Austrian political debate is also marked by the fact that the sensitivity of consumers, which in the market economy is basically not only the democratic sovereign, but also ultimately, as a king, are indispensable to producers and marketers, is still much stronger in this direction. I am thinking only of the constant political discussions, including here in the House, towards even higher standards in the field of animal welfare, animal production, animal transport. I am thinking of the high environmental and health standards we are proud of in Austria. And finally, the topic that will be discussed here tomorrow: What is Austria's position on the use of genetic engineering in the field of plant production?, also shows that we are discussing a very, very clear national position, which is also often contrary to international developments, not only in Austria, but also in terms of the political framework. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! This, of course, leads to the fact that the interests of Austria must be particularly marked by the fact that this form of agriculture must also be ensured in the coming EU government period, ultimately also under the sign of the next WTO round and the forthcoming enlargement of the European Union. The Agriculture Ministers or the Council of the EU Member States decided on the demands of farmers' representatives and the Association of European Agriculture at the Council meeting in November, which basically assumes that this European multifunctional agriculture should be even more secure by developing reform continuity than it has been. That's very simple. It is to be questioned what lies behind this basic understanding of the model of European agriculture. We understand among them a farm-structured agriculture and forestry that is based on the environment, social balance and market. Federal Minister! Of course, we are interested in how the process of opinion-building within the Austrian Federal Government is concerned with these important Austrian positions, but also, ultimately, how the opinion-forming process is taking place within the European Union in the Council of Agriculture Ministers and what situation you will find when you are on the 1st floor. As an Austrian Minister of Agriculture, the Presidency and the Presidency will be responsible for this important chapter of Agenda 2000. The discussion is very contradictory. In the media reports and many comments on the Commission's decisions, it is clear that the debate is about three key points of this agenda. The question is: Is it possible to strengthen the competitiveness of European agriculture on the world market, including the process that is predictable in the next round of the WTO, and to maintain this multifunctional European responsibility? Furthermore, the question of financing is, of course, a key issue of the whole problem. And the third area, which naturally involves, is the question: Is the enlargement process in line with both the scale and the time schedule already so predictable that important preparations for this process need to be made during the period from 2000 to 2006? I would like to say to the world market orientation: Of course, not just every European farmer, but the whole food industry of Europe is interested in the fact that we do not lose competitiveness on the world market. The question is: Can the competitiveness of European agriculture be increased in such a way that other principles must be subordinated to that concept? We assume that, due to the wide variety of social policy standards, the high standards of production, which I have already referred to in the basic consensus with the overwhelming majority of Austrian and European consumers, of course, borders on competitiveness with overseas economies, which are characterised by other social policy regulations and claims. We assume that European farmers are not being burdened with more and more environmental and animal protection requirements, while at the same time giving priority to the competitive dictatorship of the world market in these important political conditions. I should also like to point out that only a certain percentage of our agricultural production is placed on the world market. Europe, for example, is a leader in the positioning of the world milk market. It is difficult to imagine, however, that under more liberal conditions, we could be able to significantly increase the already considerable proportion of the world's milk market under harder competition from more liberal WTO regulations with overseas countries. I would now like to turn to the important question of budgeting. It is ensured that the European agricultural policy continues to be financed in accordance with the agricultural guidelines, linked to political security. It is questionable whether what the reform brought about in 1992 - price reductions to facilitate the conclusion of the GATT process in the WTO round and compensation payments for farmers, combined with higher demands on the budgets, will continue to exist, which means that losses on the market will be offset by compensation from budgets and additional environmental performance grants over the budgets. It is absolutely clear that the opinion expressed in the discussions - which have been admittedly very sensitive in recent years - that farmers or European agriculture would not be accepted by 50% of the EU budget. Ladies and gentlemen! These 50 percent do not result from an overdose of agriculture, but from the extremely deep degree of communion of agricultural policy as one of the cornerstones of the European vision. If you count together the tax revenue of the 15 Member States and put the budget amounts of EU agricultural policy in relation to those of national agricultural policies, you will see that agriculture is not spent 50 percent of European taxpayers but only 1.98 percent. The global economic challenge with the competitive situation with the United States of America shows that the rate of support for European agriculture is about 50 per cent of GDP below the amount that the US spends on agricultural policy in the past and in the present, where the rate is 65 per cent. I would point out that the principles set out by the Commission, i.e. maintain 1.27 per cent of basic funding and of which 0.11 per cent are available for financing the preparation of the enlargement process, clearly show that for other important projects that we have undertaken in Europe, for example for effective labour market policies, the decisive budgetary improvement cannot come from this small percentage approach to pan-European tax revenue. It is therefore quite clear that the achievement of a comprehensive requirement profile, which we see in a culturally multifunctional and one of the most important historical elements of the evening country, of the European continent, is certainly bound by agricultural agriculture. Therefore, everything will have to be done to ensure that this agricultural guideline is safeguarded. I should therefore like to ask you, Mr Minister, in the light of the important decisions and the political struggle that will continue to take in the ECOFIN Council, to stress also in the government's opinion that this indispensable financing and the anchoring of this EU agricultural policy in the agricultural guideline are also defined in the period 2000 to 2006. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! You can imagine that, as a practical farmer and a representative of agriculture, I would of course also like to say a lot about the EU's market and structural policy. However, I would ask my group colleagues, who will certainly have the opportunity to devote themselves to this area in the context of their speech, to do so because I will not be able to do so because, in the context of this debate on this urgent question, I would like to comment on a very important point, which is of particular importance to Austria, on the starting point for enlargement of the EU. There is no country in the EU that has as basic interests as Austria, of size, area and population. As a small EU member country, Austria has 1 300 kilometres of eastern border with the candidate countries. We are therefore particularly affected by this enlargement process. This is also felt in the entire Austrian population. Ladies and gentlemen! We will not meet this historic challenge with the denial of the responsibility we have – in the interests of the future of our country, the future of Europe! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Therefore, no one is served if time horizons of one, two, three years are proposed in the political debate. Foreign Ministers of the candidate countries have made the time horizon more realistic. For example, the Polish Foreign Minister recently said that it is difficult to imagine the full integration of his home country into the EU before 2005. The main issue in this discussion is therefore the following: Can agriculture, because of the agricultural burden of the economies of the applicant countries, provide as great an advance as possible in order to make this historic process possible? We assume that if we act in a basic spirit of solidarity and partnership, agriculture, embedded in the overall situation, can share and co-form this process as responsibly as it did in Austria's accession to the European Union. But it is also clear that there must be a gradual accession, and it is also quite clear that a basic principle must be at the forefront of all considerations: The European continent can only gain prosperity on both sides, both within the European Union and in the candidate countries. There are doubts in the population about whether this is possible at all. Ladies and gentlemen! Future forecasts are always subject to great uncertainties. But experience from the past, such as the reconstruction of our country after the chaos of the Second World War, shows – from the point of view of American aid measures, the ERP fund, the Marshall plan – that that country that helps and gives does not have to lose wealth and standard of living, but can also gain with these aids. The population of the United States of America has not become poorer due to the Marshall Plan and the ERP Fund assistance, but has been affected by the reconstruction of Europe's prosperity gains. If we are pursuing the enlargement process with a balanced policy based on these principles, then even the difficult question of ensuring the existence of our small-structured, medium-sized agriculture, which is in a difficult relationship with the structurally completely different agriculture in the candidate countries, is solvable. Of course, Austria can contribute a great deal – due to the development of relations with neighbouring countries, from the knowledge of the situation in the candidate countries. But Austria will also have to demand a lot. I would therefore ask you, Mr Federal Minister, to ensure, in the end, that all EU Member States recognise Austria's exhibit. I do not think that the debate on targeted rural development is far from over, but the political debate needs how to comply with the basic principles of the EU and yet solve the problems directly at the Austrian border. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I shall conclude by saying so. Before us lies a chapter of a policy that requires responsibility. EU enlargement and the implementation of Agenda 2000 over the next eight years will require a partnership, solidarity and solidarity to make the European continent safer, even more viable and more just in human life. We all have to carry huge burdens from the dramatic events of this century, as well as within the framework of this process – in the aim of more balance, more justice and thus more security and more peace. Whoever confesses to this process will have to take note in a personal review that there is a lot of jumps over one's own shadow. Ladies and gentlemen! It is not with the aim that anyone remains, that we become poorer or that the overall security of the European continent be questioned, but that to the proper extent solidarity and partnership are leaping over the shadows always means that the common whole is getting bigger. We are facing this challenge, and I hope and can ask you to do so, Minister of State, that the Austrian Federal Government, with the support of Parliament, will do everything we can to meet these basic principles in the next few years, including the Agenda 2000 and the EU enlargement.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e11110	To answer the urgent question, the Federal Minister for Agriculture and Forestry has been notified. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e11131	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The Austrian Federal Government held its 24th meeting. The following basic positions on the Commission's proposals for reform in the field of the common agricultural policy were adopted on 1 March 1998: First: The central objective of the Federal Government is a farm-structured agriculture and forestry which is being further developed towards environmentally and socially sound and market-oriented agriculture. Secondly, The Commission's proposals provide a basis for negotiation for the reform of the common agricultural policy, but should be taken into account in the light of the principles set out in point one. Thirdly, The detailed reform proposals on market organisations and the structural measures will be based on the conclusions of the Agriculture Council of 18 March. Negotiations were held in November 1997 and the financial interests of Austria in budgetary discipline and efficient use of resources. Fourth: Austria will ensure that more social criteria are taken into account in the design of agricultural support. In this context, Austria argues in favour of limiting individual company compensation payments from the market regulations, in particular by modulating according to the size of the holding. Austria is opposed to national differentiation in support conditions and eligibility criteria. Fifth, you open a bottle Austria adopts a positive approach to the Commission's approach to integrated rural development and a corresponding programme. Sixteenths: In particular, the Federal Government attaches great importance to measures under the agricultural environment programmes because environmental programmes are a central and important element in the reform of the common agricultural policy. 7th: The reform of the common agricultural policy is aimed at improving the competitiveness of European agriculture as well as at ensuring a efficient and efficient use of resources. With a view to the next WTO round, an offensive strategy needs to be developed. Ladies and gentlemen! This is the fundamental positioning in the Federal Government. Before answering the questions in detail, I would like to point out that the Commission's proposals are the basis for negotiating the discussions of the Council of Agriculture Ministers. The answer is therefore based on the current state of discussion. Question 1: In November of the previous year, under the chairmanship of Luxembourg, we adopted a common conclusion on future agricultural policy orientation. This conclusion focuses on the European model of agriculture. It is said in the decision-making - I quote - that: "In the Council's view, European agriculture as an economic sector must be multifunctional, sustainable and competitive and spread throughout the European area, including disadvantaged regions and mountain areas. It must be able to maintain the landscape, preserve natural areas, make a significant contribution to the vitality of rural areas and meet consumers' concerns and demands regarding the quality and safety of food, environmental protection and animal welfare." - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen! These conclusions of the Agriculture Council naturally find our full support and are the basis for the assessment which the reform proposals are now being submitted to. I would draw attention to the fact that, in December 1997, these conclusions of the Council of Agriculture Ministers were also welcomed by the Heads of Government of the European Member States. Questions 2 and 3: The Luxembourg European Council, in its conclusion on the reform of Union policies, made it clear that the financial resources necessary for the implementation of the common agricultural policy are to be determined on the basis of the agricultural guideline. Thus, the calculation mode of the agricultural guideline has been disputed from the highest political level. The Commission is now proposing to maintain the current own resources ceiling of 1.27 percent of GDP between 2000 and 2006. The ceiling for agricultural expenditure, as confirmed by the European Council, is set by the Agricultural Guidelines. I am glad that the Commission has presented a financial framework to ensure that expenditure on the common agricultural policy, both market and integrated rural development, is financed. In particular, Austria can positively assess the financial framework with regard to agricultural tasks. The Commission's approach to the future development of rural development policy is supported, as the integrated approach to rural development represents the only right and acceptable way for the future development of the common agricultural policy. Nevertheless, improvements are necessary. In particular, more account should be taken of the ecologically particularly sensitive regions in the co-financing of the environmental programmes, or a base amount should be introduced for small farms in mining areas. Question 4: The enlargement of the European Union is a challenge that can only be successfully achieved with good and careful preparation in the candidate countries, but also within the European Union. We want to make the enlargement of the European Union a success. On the part of the candidate countries, there is still a great deal of effort to meet the Copenhagen criteria for accession to the EU. These reforms, ladies and gentlemen, also require support from the European Union in our interest. We are therefore in favour of the proposals for financial assistance to the candidate countries under the preparatory strategy. On the other hand, the European Union itself must create the conditions for enlargement. Austria assumes that enlargement will now require an intensive longer negotiation process in order to ensure that the applicant countries can practically fulfil all obligations arising from membership. In the area of the common agricultural policy, it is clear that transitional mechanisms are essential. These arrangements will have to be central to the negotiations, ladies and gentlemen, because it is clear that integration into the common agricultural policy can only be phased out. This approach of gradual integration is also fully supported by the Commission because it is the only practical way to make enlargement a positive one. Austria, of course, continues to maintain its call for specific transitional aid in the border regions beyond the border because these regions, which have lived long on the border with the Iron Curtain, need this preparatory assistance and it is necessary to ensure the stability of these regions. Question 5: Ladies and gentlemen! I assume that you know the proposals on the milk market regulations. They are essentially that the quota scheme should be extended by 2006. The Commission is planning to increase the milk quota for young entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs in mountain areas. Intervention prices for butter and skimmed milk powder are to be reduced by 15 percent in four stages by 2003. A dairy cow premium is to be introduced to compensate for the reduction in intervention prices. From the Austrian point of view, the following should be noted: We support the maintenance of the quota because the safeguarding of the milk quota is the basis for management, particularly in mountain, disadvantaged and rural areas. Without milk quotas, the management of these regions is in the long run called into question. That is why maintaining the quota is our central concern. The proposals concerning intervention prices are considered too large by us and not justified by the market situation. From the Austrian point of view, the proposed dairy cow premium is basically correct, but the proposed calculation of the dairy cow premium is not satisfactory from an Austrian point of view. We want the dairy cow premium to be calculated not according to the EU dairy average, but according to the national average or that the situation of farmers in the lessfavoured areas is taken into account in a particular way. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] This can also be done by requiring Austria to include the dairy cow in the premium scheme for the extensification premium. This would also give a positive effect to this very extensive dairy industry. The increase in the milk quota is assessed skeptically from an Austrian point of view because it leads to an increase in the supply of milk and thus the quantity which would lead to a further price pressure. If alternatives are possible in this case – for example, I am thinking of the particular situation of dairy cow premium calculation in mountain areas – this would be the better way from our point of view. Austria also supports all proposals to strengthen active dairy producers. On question 6: The Commission is essentially proposing a 30 per cent reduction in institutional prices, a 30 per cent abolition of intervention and an increase in direct payments in the area of beef premiums. The Commission also proposes a certain flexibility in the framework of the premiums in order to be able to respond more effectively to national specificities. From the point of view of Austria, it must be noted that the withdrawal of intervention is at least rejected because we need this safety net for this so sensitive sector. The reduction in prices, as proposed by the Commission, is not acceptable in this form from the Austrian point of view, because this would not achieve the objectives of the Commission, namely market stability and demand growth, from our point of view. It should be noted from the Austrian point of view that, in any event, any price reductions must be compensated for by compensatory measures in the form of direct payments in the bovine sector. The proposals only provide for partial compensation and are therefore not sufficient. In particular, I would like to point out that the national lump sum amounts for supplementary payments are, in principle, to be seen as positive in the sense of national flexibility taking into account national specificities. However, a critical assessment of the framework conditions and the level of these national payments from EU funds must be carried out. It is important, from our point of view, that the Calbins should be involved in the promotion in the future. This is an essential agricultural policy objective, particularly in the green areas. A reduction in the suckler cow quota must be rejected from an Austrian point of view, because it would take opportunities for other countries for many years to build us up, namely in the first years of membership. Austria is also in favour of the possibility of the national additional premium in the suckler cow sector. The extensification premium and its progress is positive for the specific Austrian situation. We want in the future an element for the calf market in the area of beef market regulation, if it is possible, only in the field of live calves, and not in our view – I say this very openly – the Herod premium which is not really optimal to reject. Question 7: The Commission proposes a 20 percent reduction in intervention prices and the introduction of a non-productive compensatory payment, i.e. a single premium for crops, and a zero-percent set-aside. From the Austrian point of view, the following should be noted: The proposed price reductions do not find our approval because they are not justified by the expected development on the world market. In any event, from the Austrian point of view, it must be noted that full compensation for any price reductions must also be provided for in the cereals sector. A unilateral reduction of the compensatory payments depending on market price developments is not justified. The principle of uniform field culture premiums is in principle correct, but must be supplemented by incentives to ensure oil and protein cultivation. Ladies and gentlemen! We also want to ensure that land set-aside is maintained as a proven instrument for market control and that land set-aside can be reintroduced if it requires market development. In any event, we want to achieve that the currently missing perspective for the renewable raw materials sector is being replaced by an integrated approach that ensures the cultivation of plants for the production of energy and raw materials on arable land in the European Union. I am thinking, for example, of the allocation of preferential areas, of differentiated payments in the common market regulations, or of the creation of demand-side impulses for renewable raw materials. Question 8: With the proposed regulations, the Commission's approach to rural areas is essentially as follows: In the context of structural policy, the new Objective 2 provides for an anchoring of rural areas. A horizontal regulation to support the whole rural area is proposed as a new accompanying policy on the common agricultural policy. These are essentially the following three groups of measures: The 1992 accompanying measures, i.e. environmental policy, the previous Directive 2078, forestry promotion, the previous Directive 2080, and the early retirement scheme which has not been applied in Austria. Secondly, these are compensatory payments to farmers in less-favoured areas, say what we know as mining aid, and the promotion of farms in the less-favoured regions. The third group: Modernisation and diversification measures. This concerns in particular investment aid to farmers, investment aid to processing sectors in the industrial and industrial sectors and the programme for young farmers, for young farmers. Austria considers this integrated approach to rural development to be positive, a decisive step towards an integrated view of rural problems, covering not only agriculture, but also the industrial economy, workers, infrastructure, all areas of the successful rural development project, to village renewal and harvesting insurance. On the question 9: The possibility of a base amount is, as has been said, a core requirement of the mining memorandum of the Austrian Federal Government and an essential prerequisite for future management in the less favoured areas. The horizontal Regulation on integrated rural development, which is now being presented, provides for a number of innovations, in particular an increase in the ceiling per hectare and an average formation which increases national scope for design. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Renationalisation!]] Mr Reichhold! I'll talk to you on this horse. I am talking about national flexibility, and that is thanks to God something completely different than renationalization. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It would be premature today to say in conclusion that the amount of the base has been done positively. The direction that the Commission's proposals take is correct. This question or request has the highest priority. Question 10: The Austrian Government's intention is to ensure that social criteria are more taken into account in the design of agricultural support. Austria is therefore in favour of limiting individual company compensation from the common market organisations, in particular by modulating according to operating size at EU level, i.e. at EU level. In this respect, the horizontal proposal concerning the modulation of the premiums presented by the Commission seems to be a practical approach. Austria, however, clearly argues against national differentiations in terms of funding requirements and criteria. Austria rejects such national differentiations because they would lead to new distortions of competition within the common agricultural policy and could understand some of them renationalisation. On the question 11: After the first fundamental debate, three groups of Member States should be formed: Those who are positive or in principle positive towards the Commission's proposals, such as the United Kingdom of Sweden or in Denmark and the Netherlands. The second group is the Mediterranean countries which place particular emphasis on the specific problems of Mediterranean products, and the third group of Member States is the one that has expressed skeptically to the Commission's proposals. Austria joins the third group in its opinion. Question 12: The proposals for reform of the CAP are based on Article 43, i.e. the Council, in the case of agriculture, shall act by a qualified majority after the opinion of the European Parliament has been reached in the framework of the consultation procedure. The European Parliament has foreseen its opinion for November 1998. However, it is also necessary to consider the general policy perspective in the timetable. With regard to the forthcoming elections to the European Parliament in June 1999 and the European Parliament's accompanying resolution and the re-constitution of the European Commission, the need for the adoption of the overall package before the summer of 1999 is becoming increasingly evident from various points of view. This timeframe is particularly urgent by the expiry of the financial framework at the end of 1999. Thus, for example, the agricultural guideline and the entire financing from 1st century onwards. It was called into question in January 2000. If in 1999 there was no decision on the reform, the issue of the milk market regulation would depend on the air. It is therefore premature today to discuss an exact timetable for the agenda and the reform proposals. It is clear, however, that at the end of 1998, at the beginning of 1999, an important and therefore important phase for our presidency. On the question 13: The Commission's assessment of WTO development and prospects for demand and world market development is such that it believes that two key factors are the main influence. The first is population growth, and the second is the rising income worldwide. The population is rising by 85 million annually, which is expected to rise in demand for food. The Commission also notes that the new multilateral negotiations will continue as a continuation of the Uruguay Round from 1999 onwards, although there are other opinions to this end. It is clear that the issue of external protection and the reduction of export subsidies will again be the subject of this WTO round. The question of safeguarding production-independent direct payments will also be the focus of our view, as will the increasingly sensitive issues, such as the need to introduce global environmental and social standards in order to actually achieve a fair world market and fair conditions. The Agriculture Council adopted a political opinion last November, and that is the essential point for me. This says: First of all, Europe should be able to continue to develop agriculture that is in line with its special characteristics and that meets very high quality and safety standards. Secondly, to ensure that agricultural trade and the liberalisation of markets are integrated into a framework, which means that the conditions applicable to European farmers and agricultural products are internationally recognised and that neither the principle of Community preference nor the principle of solidarity with developing countries is challenged. This position is fully supported by me. This position for the next round of the WTO is, in my view, an essential basis for agricultural agriculture. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Question 14: I have drawn the Council's attention to the fact that we cannot accept the proposed radical price reduction concept in this form: firstly, because European and Austrian agriculture is producing under other cost conditions due to the higher production standards in the ecological, veterinary and phytosanitary field and because world market prices do not cover these increased costs, and secondly because I am in favour of a reasonable balance in agricultural income formation between direct payments and market returns. In addition, I consider it incompatible with the November conclusions that the compensation as proposed by the Commission is incomplete and insufficient. The full compensation is, in any case, a prerequisite for further negotiations. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Question 15: Ladies and gentlemen! The Council also made it clear in its conclusions of November that agricultural legislation should be simplified and adapted more with regard to national conditions. However, in the Council's view, it must be noted that the solution ultimately chosen does not distort competition and does not lead to a renationalisation of the common agricultural policy or to a transfer of the financial burden to the Member States. These are the two cornerstones of national flexibility. I reject all the ideas of renationalisation because it contradicts the basic idea of the European Union and ultimately goes at the expense of the smaller countries in particular, because only the common policy also allows for the implementation of Community rules for smaller Member States. The halving of national agricultural subsidies would lead to a disaster for Austrian farmers and result in massive farmers' deaths. In view of the fact that today's agricultural income already results in more than two thirds of direct payments in the form of payment of benefits and market organization premiums, it is clear that the achievement of the halvation, namely this demand for halvation, would amount to a reduction of the agricultural income by about 40 percent. Based on an average mining plant with income of approximately 240 000 S from agriculture and forestry in 1996 and a share of public funds of 190 000 S, this reduction would mean an income reduction of about 100 000 S. I therefore also strongly reject this policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e11210	Thank you very much, Minister of State. We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that speaking time per speaker is up to 10 minutes, the total speaking time per club is 25 minutes. Mr Schwarzenberger is the first to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e11237	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Since Agenda 2000 will bring changes not only to agriculture, but also to large areas of the Austrian population and not least to border regions, and since Austria wants to maintain the rural structure of its agriculture in the future, it is of course a national concern and not just a farming concern. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The objective of our agricultural policy is still a comprehensive agriculture and forestry in the form of family farms. For us, therefore, the safeguarding of agricultural income is a priority in the negotiations that are now under way. The European Commission's proposal will be accepted in the negotiations of the Councils of Ministers, I hope that it will also be possible to implement sustainable conditions for Austria. That is why I fully recognise the need for reforms in the agricultural policy. Agricultural production is also increasing in Europe as a result of the breeding progress in the plant and animal sectors. The population in Europe, on the other hand, is no longer growing, so we are increasingly dependent on the world market with increasing production. On the other hand, the 1993 WTO agreement states that over the next six years import levies must be reduced by 36 percent, export support by the same percentage and the amount supported must be reduced by 21 percent. Ladies and gentlemen! We no longer place increasing production on the world market under the current WTO agreements. New recipes must therefore be found. However, the following key elements are essential to the reform: The agricultural guideline should be maintained as a budgetary framework, including for the years 2000 to 2006. The second important area – Minister Molterer has already noted this in his reply – is that there will be a further round of WTO negotiations as from 1999 and 2000 and that the safeguarding of higher animal and land premiums must also be recognised as a permanent price compensation. Only this can prevent the risk of multifunctionality and the sustainability of our environmentally sound agriculture. Another area is the development of rural areas. It is well known that Agenda 2000 proposes reducing the six target areas so far to three target areas, while keeping the Objective 1 area unchanged. There is a chance that the Burgenland will remain Objective 1 territory during the next programme period, between 2000 and 2006. But Objectives 2, 5 and 6 are to be combined. Industry and rural areas are therefore to be merged. We therefore call for those less-favoured regions of Austria, which now fall into 5a – with compensation, investment support, public transport – to be taken over by the Agricultural Guarantee Fund, so to speak, if they are no longer included in the Objective 2 area in the future. We want to continue to support rural development there. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A positive opportunity given the proposals of Agenda 2000 – there is not only a negative one – I see that the compensatory allowance for less favoured areas – that is, the previous mining grant in Austria – is raised from 180 ECU per hectare to 200 ECU as a ceiling on the average of a region. This concerns farms in extreme locations, businesses where manual work is a matter of concern. We want to maintain these plants because the most extreme mining districts are also the most intensive tourist districts. Austria will also be able to be a European recreation area in 50 years if we manage to keep this region healthy. We need a healthy peasantry to do this. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I hope that it will be possible to set in this variant a base amount for the compensation allowance, because this is suitable for the support of smaller farms. We need - I would like to say this again - smaller farms in the mountain valleys, because otherwise the infrastructure costs for the few remaining larger farms will no longer be increased. Since the costs are constantly being discussed and it is said that European farmers claim too high a share of the budget of the European Union, it should be said that all European budgets should be included in this calculation, that of the individual countries and that of the EU. The agricultural sector is the only really common area. On the other hand, for example, the entire social area or the entire security area falls into national funding. When we count the costs together in this way, it is almost 2% that farmers receive from the public budgets – from the federal government, from the countries and from the EU. In my opinion, these 2% should be inadequate for food security in Europe and for the maintenance of the cultural landscape, which also benefits the quality of life of the entire European population. These 2% should continue to be available to farmers! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to make a further comparison with the evidence that payments to farmers are going directly to the economy. In 1997, direct payments and investment subsidies amounting to a total of 22.3 billion schilling were made to the Austrian farmers. During the same period, in 1997, farmers made investments of 27 billion schillings, 14 billion construction investments and 13 billion shillings of machine investments. This means that there are very many jobs not only in agriculture, but also in general in the economy. Now on some proposals on market regulation: In the milk and cattle sector – where the focus is on income from agricultural production, in the mountain area more than two thirds – far too much is planned to reduce intervention prices. We believe that price reductions are not necessary to this extent – in the case of cattle by 30 per cent – for butter and milk powder by 15 per cent. We believe that there must be other recipes to limit production and prevent its expansion. Unfortunately, I do not allow time to go into the various areas of market regulation. I would therefore like to conclude by saying: The Agenda 2000 should not mean a lot of farmers, but rather an opportunity for economic development in the rural and rural regions. Only then is the meaning of a reform of the agricultural policy fulfilled. This is a request that we give to our Minister in the negotiations in the Council of Agriculture Ministers.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e11323	Mr Gradwelt is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e11344	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On the part of my group, on the objectives of the Austrian Federal Government in the field of agricultural policy and also in the Agenda 2000, I should like to state in principle that, of course, we fully support these objectives – Mr Reichhold will be surprised by them. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: But this is coalitionary forced!]] I do not think so, Mr Barmüller. Ladies and gentlemen! Since the first draft Agenda 2000 in the summer of the previous year, there has been a broad discussion, not only on agricultural policy, but also on the whole of Agenda 2000, but mainly and intensively on agricultural policy. This will be the subject of a discussion in Europe and also in Austria on the second major reform of the common agricultural policy. The statements of opinion range from the anticipated calls for every reform on the agenda, to well-respected contributions. Ladies and gentlemen! For Austria, I believe that the Green Reports 1995 and 1996 as well as the data already available for 1997 provide a useful basis for the first time to underline the need for reform and, secondly, to build the Austrian position on the reform of Agenda 2000, the reform of the agricultural policy. Our social democratic intentions are quite contrary to the departure from a support, mainly from the area, from the number of animals or from the product, and to the use of more direct payments. As in the debates on the Green Reports as well as the other debates on agriculture, I should also like to take the opportunity today to introduce, on the part of the Socialist Group, the positioning that we still stand for the introduction of a base amount, for the introduction of ceilings in the field of support, for a stronger ecologicalisation of agricultural policy, and also for the integration of labour force and labour performance into support policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] However, what are the opportunities for the implementation of these requirements? – I think they are good, ladies and gentlemen. As evidence of this assessment, I may request an APA report dated 16 May. citation of March this year. My previous speaker and the Federal Minister in his reply to the question referred to the fact that the Member States will be able to redistribute in the future, and I quote literally: The EU Commission grants Member States the right to take large farmers away from their funding. Other measures are expected to be financed with the money retained by the large earners at all times. – End of the quote. In my view, it is possible to support the small-structured family agriculture in Austria and thus also to meet our intentions. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] As further confirmation of our position, I am entitled to make a request from the European Court of Auditors, which is published in the "Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung" of 15. ==References====External links== As a confirmation of our line that the social tolerance limit is basically reached, the European Court of Auditors – I quote – demands: The European Court of Auditors criticises the high level of direct income support, which also benefits large businesses without any limitation. – End of the quote. This, in turn, also supports our line to introduce ceilings and enforce a fairer distribution. [[Accompaniment with SPÖ and detonative accompaniment of the abg. Wabl.]] In all these considerations, we can refer Austrians to already achieved ones, on the one hand, to the 1998 ÖPUL, which has now been approved by the European Commission and with the help of which we have succeeded in introducing a social phase in the form of modulation and in furthering the ecologicalisation of agriculture. Austria is a model example of the greening of agricultural policy within the European Union. Secondly, I call the Mining Memorandum, which can look back on great support in this House, into which the European Union has been introduced and is increasingly supported by other Member States. In addition, as a third point, I would like to mention the involvement of labour force and labour intensity. I know from my international contacts that there are positive discussions on this subject within the European Union in other Member States too. In conclusion, I should like to say to my group that we are very open and open to the discussion on Agenda 2000, but that we continue to insist on our demands for social justice in the promotion policy, on a ceiling, on the introduction of a base amount and on the involvement of labour intensity in the promotion directives also at European level. [[Detonatative condolences of the Abg. Wabl]] Therefore, from our point of view, this discussion and this reform must be used to implement these measures at EU level and hence also for the Austrian agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e11406	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Reichhold. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e11427	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! You can turn it and turn it as you want: Agenda 2000 will be a bitter pill for the peasantry! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It will also be a bitter pill because it will be the prerequisite for a threatening Easter enlargement, at the end of which there will be two different types of agriculture: the one that will be produced by agro-industrial methods at world market prices in favour and using genetic engineering and hormone feeding, and the other, whose farmers remain as subsidized landscape gardeners. Fischler has created the conditions for this with Agenda 2000. As a result of the 1992 compensatory payments, land aid – i.e. subsidies – has become the subject of 1999 and Agenda 2000 respectively. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This is not a vision for young farmers and young farmers to stay in agriculture. I am pleased that, at least in the approach, there is a rethinking of the farmers' association. Mr. Schwarzböck still has 15th place. In December 1997, in the Lower Austrian Chamber of Agriculture, a corresponding request for urgency was rejected by the liberals. Today there are already quite different sounds to hear. Today, you are distanced from both Agenda 2000 and Easter enlargement, at least in the Lower Austrian election campaign. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I can still recall the 1994 and 1995 accession campaigns, when, in particular, the representatives of the EIAs said that we would have to get into the European Union urgently and urgently, because only it can protect us from GATT and Eastern enlargement. What happened to it? – The political lie of the past has turned out to be the reality of today, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That's why a No to the agenda and a yes to Easter enlargement, as is being tried here today, not possible. Because a yes to Easter enlargement means – whether you want to do so or not – the internal market and thus world market prices, job losses and farmers' deaths. You don't want that! But we will not allow the naughty double game you are playing here from the ÖVP: on the one hand, we will stand against the agenda, but on the other hand we will support and allow the Easter enlargement. [[Abg. Steibl: What does "frog" mean? What's that language?]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: No violence in the language!]] With Agenda 2000, you will kill the farmers to solve the problem of Easter enlargement. Or, as your colleague Fischler said, Farmers must not be the stumbling block for an Easter enlargement. That's why it's "good" – it's almost like that – when Fischler now removes this stumbling stone, the farmers, with Agenda 2000. We're not there for the liberals! Federal Minister! Your call is missing, a cry in the international framework! Half of Europe is demonstrating, the farmers are on the move, among them 30 000 Spanish farmers alone. Her colleague from the Federal Republic of Germany, Minister for Agriculture Borchert, attacked the Commissioner for Agriculture, saying: Your course is the course of "Titanic", you will lead the farmers to ruin! The Agenda 2000 contradicts Art. 39 of the EU Treaty, because it destabilises markets, and because there can no longer be adequate living and living. . He says that 100 000 jobs are lost if this fisherman concept is enforced. Stoiber, the CSU Prime Minister of Bavaria, speaks in an edition of the "Focus" of "Irrzinn". But what do you hear here in Austria? – Swammy, soft formulations, no clear statements, no removal. If I read through the speech that you, Mr Molterer, have recently held in the Extraordinary Council, I see that you are exercising in broad areas of praise and are honouring many of the measures of Agenda 2000. It may be that there are also positive aspects in it, but you are sending out the wrong signals! They encourage them to remain politically on this road as well. We do not, however, need any dirty explanations, but we need clear statements. We don't need a yes, we don't need a jein, as you say, but we need a clear no! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We do not need a cuddly course, as German Chancellor Klima has always meant, even if Fischler is your party friend. Therefore, a clear word for renationalisation from the point of view of the liberals. – Of course, renationalisation can only succeed if the membership contribution is reduced in parallel. That is also what the Germans want, they also demand a reduction in the membership contribution, for example the CSU. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: A renationalization too!]] It also wants to renationalise and demands more scope, above all more scope for income measures. That's what we want! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: (in the direction of Federal Minister Mag. Molterer) Read what they want!]] Because we have never called for a complete renationalization – you know that exactly! – but a renationalisation of income policy. And that's what's happening now. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The flexibility you have spoken about today, Minister of State, that your flexibility is a lazy egg for the farmers. Because with flexibilization, the national budgets are not affected, as you say, but the farmers feel it because they are not fully compensated. Your budget does not happen, but farmers do not receive full compensation according to Agenda 2000 for the losses they will suffer due to price reductions. But it is important to me that the farmers live – and not your budget! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! You will have the opportunity, in the course of the Presidency of the Council, to prove how enforceable you are in Europe. If you can enforce much of what you have announced here today, then you will be successful. But you will not be able to hide behind the German elections, as you may already be acting or speculating, namely by saying: In Germany it is elected, so nothing goes on with me. - We won't let that happen! You will then have to explain to the farmers why you, as the European head of government of the farmers and the agricultural ministers, allow further price reductions to be made, even though the farmers had to take a price reduction of up to 50 percent just recently. You have to explain this to the farmer! You must explain this in particular to those who produce in disadvantaged areas and whose proceeds will not even be sufficient to cover the variable special costs. For this will raise the question of meaning for many, and then many farmers will say: No, it doesn't make sense anymore, I'm leaving agriculture. For example, they will have to explain to the milk producers how it is possible for Austria to have the toughest hygiene regulations, which means that many will have to give up milk production. They will have to explain how Austrian milk producers will then – as it is now happening – disappear into an extensive form, into the suckler cow holding, even though the quotas are already exhausted and now in Agenda 2000 it is also proposed to reduce the suckler cow quotas again. What else are these farmers going to do? – Milk production can no longer be carried out: The price is reduced, the hygiene regulations are intensifying. It is also no longer possible to maintain a mother cow because the Agenda 2000 and the quota system are in favour of the one rule. What perspectives will be Can you give young people in disadvantaged areas? They will have to explain why milk premiums cannot be fully exploited in dairy cows. The head premium is located at an average output of 5 800 kilograms, but we only have 4 500 kilograms. This means that we can only benefit about 70 percent of the possible milk premiums, which will benefit from head premiums. You have to explain this to the dairy farmers! You will have to explain to the farmers why you are not doing your homework. 'Cause you're on 22nd. In April 1994, together with the SPÖ, a contract is signed in which one year after accession of the EU a VAT adjustment will be made and you will make a corresponding legal change. Their failure results in losses in a scale – as the Wifo has already calculated – of 1.7 billion shillings per year, i.e. approximately in the order of magnitude in which the forecast losses will move as a result of Agenda 2000. It is not the fault of the European Union that you are decent in this matter and that you have not made this adjustment, but that is your fault. That's what it was. Your commitment to farmers joining the EU, that is a contract you have concluded! This is your obligation to meet the farmers, and that will be It is your word, yes, that is your word, which you have done to the peasants! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Every year 1.7 billion schilling loss, because you are not able to fulfill the contracts you yourself signed – let alone the fact that we have the highest diesel price in all of Europe! If Mr Schwarzböck and Mr Molterer say here today that the conditions of competition in Europe must not be distorted, I ask you: What are these conditions of competition when our farmers have the highest diesel price to produce? What are the conditions for competition if the tax burden in this country is so high if the social costs are constantly rising here when the toughest hygiene regulations are made here? – That’s not a policy! I think of the legacy that Hans Kudlich left us. He said: "Farmers are united, watchful, maintain your political and economic freedom. Enemies to circumcise them are more at work than you think, even in your own ranks!" – You can write this to the EU and your bearded friend in Brussels, Mr Fischler, in the main book! [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e11549	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Barmüller. Same time of speech. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e11570	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! One thing is clear with this urgent request: Agriculture is nothing more for farmers, agriculture is just something for technocrats. If I listen to the discussion and vocabulary that is primarily used here, then there is still talk of sustainability or of farm-structured agriculture in political floscles. In reality, however, it is only about the large streams of financial resources; that is what always appears to be moving. I am surprised at the fact that many of the financial resources that flow in the field of agriculture are in fact no longer available to the individual farmers, but that they are highly subsidized to the extent that the real production, primary production, is being relocated, so that the money does not reach those who really need it. The reason for the urgent question therefore states that fairness is a proposed argument against a professional group which already has below-average income and provides above-average benefits. It is therefore a proposed argument because, in the subcommittee here in the House on agricultural support, we have not even discussed what the main lines of support should be. The negotiations are always going on as they are here today: Are the calcines coming in there, or should we do something about the milk quota? – It is always only about the individual specific points and not about what the great approach is in this area. As long as this does not happen, the debate will always be a discussion of the technocrats, a discussion of those who already know themselves from the chamber bodies, who therefore, in principle, only speak by name in the subcommittee of this House on the reorganisation of agricultural subsidies, saying: "As I told you the other day during the discussion in the Chamber...." – But we are going beyond the major political lines, and so is the agricultural policy. Ladies and gentlemen! If it is said here that agricultural policy is a national and not just a farming concern, then it is clear that now the officials are more in need and less the farmers. For the situation in agriculture has been the same for years, the trends in agriculture have not been reversed for years, nor has it been true that those intensifications resulting from EU accession would not have been seen before accession to the EU. One has seen the new, intensified competitive situation, and the failure – to assume responsibility from the government coalition – is that it has failed to adapt the structures in Austria accordingly. If you say here, Mr Schwarzenberger, that we need a healthy peasantry, then you have apparently meant that. It is clear that, when it comes to health, the health of farmers is the worst among all occupational groups in the country. That hasn't changed for years, it's gotten worse. But what you have meant is that we need competitive structures. If we need competitive structures, we have to say clearly what the central problem in agricultural policy is. The central problem in agricultural policy remains overproduction, ladies and gentlemen. Overproduction in the agricultural sector is the central problem, even the problem that this trend has just begun down on the world market. That was not something that would not have been heightened, for example, by the European Union's subsidy policy, but we are only now being picked up by the consequences. This is why we must not only talk about agricultural policy, but also about agricultural policy, but also about agricultural policy. It is clear that Mr Grad well-being cannot claim that the opportunities for implementation, especially for agricultural structural policy, would be favourable. He said they were good, and then he quoted from the APA, but true, my Ladies and gentlemen, they are not good. I do not quote from the APA, but I quote from the Federal Government's report on measures for agriculture and forestry for 1998 in accordance with § 9 para. 2 Agriculture Act. In this, you can read straight away that the situation of Austrian agriculture is still marked by difficult adaptation problems to the common agricultural policy system, that it is about strengthening the competitiveness of farms, and that it is about creating efficient processing and marketing facilities. All of this, ladies and gentlemen, is true, but you are not saying that, if you have this as an objective, of course, in the structures of Austrian agriculture today, we have to change massively. It's no different. They cannot talk about adaptation processes, raising competitiveness, and at the same time suggesting to the Austrian farmers that everything can remain as it is anyway. This is the problem that you have raised with your policy, because if I look at the study that has been carried out on organic farming in Austria, which is a structural analysis, it can be seen that, with regard to the last two years, the rate of growth in organic farming has been greatly reduced. A OPUL programme has been created in 1995 as part of EU accession and in order to compensate for loss of income in agriculture. We have been told that we will see to it that environmentally sound agriculture is being run; we will see that we can maintain our structure as a rural agriculture. It is true that we have to recognize today that the rate of growth is falling to a degree that it is clear that this area cannot be expanded to the extent that it has apparently been desired. This is also visible because, as a consequence of the study – and this is a study that has come from your area, Mr Federal Minister – it is clearly said that there are a number of causes, but the economic incentives for the conversion towards organic farming are too small. That makes it clear: The structural policy made by the Federal Government in this area has not borne the fruit you wanted. That is why we are facing the problem today that the Federal Minister must say: Further negotiations, for example in Agenda 2000, will only take place if we are promised 100 percent compensation for loss of income. But it won't play! That is why it is not going to play, ladies and gentlemen, because the Agenda 2000 also makes it clear – I am referring today only to documents coming from the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry – that the positive areas of Agenda 2000 are those that will create, for example, an extension of EU co-financing for increased diversification in the field of agriculture. There will also be increased support for rural infrastructure, in particular environmental investments and village development. Ladies and gentlemen! However, it is also clear that in the area of the restructuring process in Austria, which is said to have been launched in 1995 and which is extremely slowed down, as the previous study shows, we simply need to increase. If the coalition does not, then European policy will overrun Austrian agriculture. No one, ladies and gentlemen, can claim that this would not have been foreseeable from the outset, and in so far as I see today's urgent request as a shadow box of the officials of the agricultural sector, in particular the ÖVP. Mr Gradwelt has held back very much anyway. Mein Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! It is not a question of the fact that, as Mr Schwarzböck said in his explanatory statement, we now have a policy in the field of agriculture, which requires responsibility, but in particular that in the past a policy has been made by the great coalition, for which it is necessary to finally assume responsibility. And if you take on this responsibility, you have to admit that, despite your ten years of rule in this country, you have not been able to secure the rural structures. [[Federal Minister Mag. Molterer: What should we have done now? Change or save?]] Federal Minister! It is a question of making it clear to farmers in Austria that, as far as we know them, and how they are primarily dominated by the Raiffeisen sector and the Chamber sector, that is something that Mr Fischler has already said in 1996, is a restructuring, that people are clearly told that the changes will bring about the removal of farms from the market. But then there must be a structure that will enable Austrian agricultural structures to survive in the future. And that is exactly what you did not do, because you wanted to secure your own spheres of influence. The OPUL programme has not led to restructuring, but it has been made clear that other measures can compensate for the loss of income. It is not true, Mr Federal Minister, that the ÖPUL programme has really led to a restructuring of Austrian agriculture. This was something that has often been criticized not only by the liberals, but also by the Greens and others here on this pult: that under the pre-text and under the coat of ecologization money is actually brought into the agricultural field in order to obtain structures that you cannot maintain in the long term. And the longer this policy continues, the more difficult it will be to really change something in this area. It is true that what we expect today is nothing but the consistent continuation of the 1992 reform. This reform had positive effects, ladies and gentlemen, but Commissioner Fischler already said in 1996 – quote –: We might be able to hold the position for a few years. At the latest, we will be standing on the wall with the back of the wall in the case of growing surpluses. You also stand with your agricultural policy with your back on the wall, and this urgent request does not serve to change this situation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e11618	The next item is Mrs Dr Petrovic's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e11647	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! One thing this urgent question of the ÖVP has certainly already done: The cafeteria must be full! [[Abg. May. Guggenberger: Is she not!]] Isn't she? Maybe even those from the front bank series have... [[Federal Minister Mag. Molterer: Where are all greens?]] Mr. Federal Minister, that's not our urgent. [[Federal Minister Mag. Molterer: But the Greens are interested in agriculture!]] It is even so important to us that the club woman speaks about it. But one thing, Mr Federal Minister, seems to me to be that way – that is the result of the cure of this urgent question: Has there not been a little less fear of the ÖVP for farmers than the fear that there might be some debate about the presidential candidates? Perhaps something to an ÖVP minister/an ÖVP minister judge who might be unpleasant for the candidate? We do not want to have any discussions in this country! That's just some sort of democracy. [[Federal Minister Mag. Molterer: A good candidate! Kle Styl is a good candidate!]] That's your assessment. I think that a little debate would certainly have done him better, but it should not have been so. It is certainly all in line with business rules, and it is certainly also an important question. How great the urgency is here at the moment, this may also be derived from the "rain" presence. Maybe first of all on the matter in the narrower sense. The argument put forward by Mr Reichhold in connection with the original argumentation before accession to the EU is, of course, remarkable: We need the protection of local agriculture, and only the strong EU, this strong partner, can save farmers. – Somehow this seems to have been wrong now. One thing you didn't do at all, Minister of State: Only minimal quantities of world dairy and cereals are traded – 6 percent in the dairy sector, 13 percent in cereals production – that is, the majority – over 90 percent or almost 90 percent – serves the supply of regional and national markets and is not traded internationally. And because of this 6 or 13 percent you want to put the 90 percent at risk and under pressure. Why you then, in the end, always agree with this system, and where my knowledge belongs to the competent EU Commissioner of your party, is not really clear. It is also unfortunate that the debate you have given this House today will not be able to take place in the ÖVP club. One can only speculate about the reasons for this here at the speaker's desk, but it would have been reasonable to present to this House today an ÖVP proposal as a way out of the mess, instead of essentially continuing the Lamento on a path which you yourself have very forced. I also find remarkable that even things that have been recently, even in my presence in the context of a television debate, are eliminated in the ÖVP. You have promised that the so-called early processing premium, also called "herodes premium" in the media, will be abolished. Now, in the new drafts on Agenda 2000, it seems that this early processing premium is going to be rewritten. That it is cruel and inhuman, we know that it... [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: There is no such proposal in Agenda 2000!]] But there are new designs. Or shouldn't you know them? If that is so, then you can all the more easily agree with the Greens' motion for a resolution, to which some colleagues from the EIA have already told me at the last debate, they want to discuss it in the club, and then they will be happy to vote in favour. So I hope you discussed this in the meantime. I therefore make the following request again: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is a very simple request. And if the debate here is not just a show to shield candidate Kletyl, then, I think, this should at least be a small object-political result. In addition, I think we must also ask ourselves a very important question: If it is true that the proposals of the EIAs – the maintenance of small and medium-sized farming structures – are to be implemented, if we do not want to reduce these prices of 15, 20 and more percent, and thus the orientation towards a market that is becoming more and more victimised, we should be clear: This will cost money, more money than it costs today, especially in the conversion phase, until there is a comprehensive ecologically active agriculture. And once again, Mr. Federal Minister – I have sometimes already said it from this debate –: There will be no more conventional medium-sized agriculture in 10 to 15 years. On the one hand, there will be industrial plants and on the other hand there will be organic farming plants. The argument that consumers buy not only the relatively expensive organic products, I do not at all let it apply, Mr Federal Minister, because you know as well as I do that you can apply it to any economic sector. We are not competitive in all areas of the textile industry either. In the production of any cheap textiles, of t-shirts and similar, Austria is not competitive. We should not even strive for it, because that was to push the social level for the textile workers completely into the basement. And I hope no one in this country wants it. The same is true of agricultural production. A specialization will take place, and Austria has only the choice where it wants to specialize. There is no doubt that specialization will take place. To believe that one can dance on all Kirtags, on all markets, is unrealistic. And because the money will cost, because I believe that the money is better removed in the conservation of organic farming and because, as we know, the money in times of savings packages is not necessarily multiplyable, I am putting in place a motion for a resolution relating to the current debate. We do not want the money to be spent on tanks or off-line hunters, but on agricultural agriculture, and that is why we need to vote on the security policy options first, because NATO accession costs a lot of money. [[Abg. Scheibner: No more than the other institutions devour!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! To believe that the money is present in the casting can one could simultaneously buy 500 new tanks and I don't know how many interception hunters buy and then make the ecological restructuring – that's an illusion. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group! Today you have conspired within the current hour, you are firmly on the ground of Austrian neutrality. When voting on the option report, you have the opportunity to show this conviction in your voting behaviour.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e11804	Mrs Petrovic's motion for a resolution on the abolition of the EU processing premium is sufficiently supported. It is in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and therefore also with our principles and is under negotiation. With regard to the second request which it has just submitted and which asks the Republic to deal with the security policy development along the conclusions of an accompanying report, I will now consider whether there is a context of content, as required in § 55 of the Rules of Procedure, and then take a decision on this. The next speaker is Mr Auer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e11832	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Reichhold said that Agenda 2000 was a bitter pill. I say: Yes, if it were to come unchanged, as proposed at the moment. It is therefore our task in Austria and Europe to formulate Agenda 2000 in such a way that it can be implemented by farmers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! He also meant that it would be up to the Federal Minister to prove his enforceability as EU Council President, that is, as the head of the farmers. With all appreciation for you, Mr Reichhold – you know that I can agree to you in many things –: I all prefer the responsibility of Mr Molterer's Minister of State and not you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: I'm even surprised!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: How do you know who will become a Minister of Agriculture?]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] I assume that no one here is surprised at this statement – even Mr Wabl. It's even better than that. Ladies and gentlemen! Agenda 2000 is currently the issue of agriculture, is the subject of rural areas and political meetings, no matter which party, at least those parties that are still dealing with agricultural issues. Ladies and gentlemen! It is to be asked that question which has already been raised here by several previous speakers: Do we want a comprehensive agricultural management in the future? Do we want the farm stand? Do we also want to give farmers a chance and hope for the future? Can we give them this at all, or will we wish for an industrial management that will not reflect on what will come later? – I say absolutely: We from the ÖVP want a rural, comprehensive, sustainable agriculture! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, Austria has joined the European Union in advocating the right to actively participate in agricultural policy in the EU, to shape and influence the development of European agricultural policy in our view. Only those who are there can influence them; otherwise you might have to take a few days to look around in Switzerland, how "great" – under quotation marks – it looks there. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: The double income!]] The following also needs to be clarified: Commissioner Fischler makes agricultural policy for Europe as a whole. Our task is to make Austrian agricultural policy and to influence the European agricultural policy. What is the starting point, ladies and gentlemen? Do we want agricultural production to be manageable in sizes, with verifiable production methods taking into account what will be later, with regard to soil and soil, with residue-free, healthy food and a comprehensive management, or do we want industrial management – without regard to what will be later, without regard to soil and soil, without regard to world market prices and without financial compensation? – I hope the answer is clear – also on the part of the liberals! It's clear: A farmer means two jobs. Therefore, there will also be changed requirements for farmers, for the processing sector in the future – and there should be nothing to do with it. And it will be more in demand to market the product than to increase the production of the original product, ladies and gentlemen. The promotion of export activity in the agricultural sector and the completion of the agricultural product will be necessary. I am lacking in Agenda 2000 – I say this clearly and clearly – especially in the field of renewable energy. In the context of the high diesel price, the question is why it is not possible to build up and carry out fuel production at agricultural level. It is incomprehensible that it is not possible to produce the fuel for the vehicles, diesel tractors and so on. I will prove to you the opposite, ladies and gentlemen. Come to my farm! There you can be convinced that this works perfectly! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You should go this way. The European Union is also invited to set new standards in this area and to implement what it has announced in a White Paper. – I'm missing that right now. Ladies and gentlemen! Austria is also a country characterized by tourism. Especially in the tourism sector, a substantial part of our national income is generated. This sector employs tens of thousands of workers and allows family incomes. A large part of the guests – ladies and gentlemen, of which we should be aware – are in addition to the culture, the historical and musical conditions that Austria offers, also interested in landscape tourism, a well-kept landscape. Such tourism will no longer exist if industrial farming and industrial farms are to be managed. That is why these aspects must be taken into account. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is always about liberalisation, world market prices. I wonder why, at the EU's external border, but also in its own areas, it is essential to insist on the restriction of entry into the labour market, why it is natural in the European Union for, for example, Japanese cars to be imported in a limited, quota setting, but in the case of agricultural products, there is a need to take major global market steps. I believe that it must also be possible in the future for each country to have and maintain independent agriculture, for many reasons, including for reasons of security and stability. Other factors must also be taken into account: As it is obvious that there must be no social dumping and no change in the environmental standards in Austria, it must also be possible to maintain, design and finance an Austrian form of agricultural agriculture in the future, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In this context, it is necessary to give young farmers a little courage and hope that their efforts to manage their daily work – without any difference, whether on weekdays, holidays or Sundays – will also allow them to manage their farm in the future as it has been. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to clarify the following: The farmers cannot, and will not, be the victims of any enlargement or reform. In this context, I ask all political forces to use the months ahead to support our Federal Minister Molterer, who has demonstrated in many questions in recent years that he has been the guarantee for farming and for the rural families of Austria not only so far, but also in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e11956	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e11977	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr Auer! They themselves have admitted that Agenda 2000 will be a bitter pill, especially for farmers, but not only for farmers. [[Abg. Ah, if it were as planned!]] And you have said that it is now your Federal Government's task to get the best out for the farmers and to change the demands in the agenda in such a way that something good comes out of it. Mr Auer! This can only be considered a dangerous threat to Austrian agriculture and Austria! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It was already possible to see this at EU accession when the government promised the farmers the same thing. Only when Austria is with the EU will the farmers be viable, it was said at the time. – At the time, it was so badly negotiated that EU officials later said they had never experienced a candidate who had negotiated as badly for its own interests as the Austrian government had. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Similarly, Mr Agriculture Minister, it will also be at Agenda 2000! At the dose of Zyankali, which you give to Austria and Austrian agriculture, you will still have to babyseel properly. I really think it is unfrozen that at a time when there are 8,000 to 10,000 farmers a year, you still have 8,000 to 10,000 farmers a year! – to give up their farms as full-time farmers, here try to explain their agricultural policy, Agenda 2000 and the EU as the all-insane means for Austrian agriculture. You, ladies and gentlemen of the EIA, have also pointed out in your urgent question that, in addition to agricultural policy, Agenda 2000, structural policy, the EU's financial performance and also the EU's enlargement to the East will be important issues. – Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Auer, ladies and gentlemen of the agricultural lobby in the ÖVP, how can you support enlargement of the EU if you vote in favour of agriculture? – Especially for Austria, for the Austrian farmers, the EU Easter enlargement means wrong time and poorly prepared death! This is the same as joining the EU: Austria has not yet been prepared for this common market. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Zweytick.]] Mr Zweytick! You will also look at what will happen to your wine when all that comes in, which can no longer be kept by any customs barriers! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr. Zweytick! I don't understand at all. There you are, at once, the great integration politicians. You should follow the principle: "Austria first!" This is a slogan that the Federal President has once decreed. Yes, "Austria first!" – and not Brussels first! Austria first, in all areas of Austrian politics, also in agriculture! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] As far as EU enlargement is concerned, there is now scepticism everywhere, Mr Zweytick. [[Abg. Zweytick: I can't listen to that!]] Scepticism is commonplace throughout Europe when it comes to EU enlargement. It is only in Austria that one wants to be more papal than the Pope once again, that one wants to be model students again and to implement the enlargement of the EU at the earliest possible time against all the interests of the Austrian population and also of Austrian agriculture. You have said for yourselves that this is your goal, my dear colleague! [[Call to the ÖVP: Who said that? That's wrong!]] All you're explaining to the farmer is just maculation! You also promised them the blue from heaven before joining the EU. [[Abg. Zweytick: You promise the blue from the sky as blue!]] Today you say: This is the EU; unfortunately, we can no longer act independently, it must be accepted! They told the Austrians and the Austrian farmers at the time: At first it will be difficult; there will be transitional arrangements, but in the long term it will be better. – We have heard this for the second time in relation to the euro, and for the third time we hear it about enlargement of the EU. They believe that the Austrians are 20 years of transition, without any real advantages! It would be important to integrate the Eastern European countries, but not primarily economic, with Austria paying for them, but security policy, Mr Zweytick! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Zweytick: That's what you're saying? What are you talking about?]] That is the credo of the hour, namely to create orderly security in Europe! Security integration before economic integration! [[Abg. Zweytick: We're talking about agriculture!]] There, Mr Zweytick, Austria has first of all advantages and no disadvantages as in the economic field. That is why the EU Presidency of Austria should be involved. Therefore, you should strive to implement Agenda 2000, just as you have addressed it here in your urgent request in relation to Easter enlargement. It should go exactly in this direction: Security integration against economic integration! In the sense of Austrian agriculture, I also make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: We are not at the current hour, but at a urgent request!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! The foreign exchange is: Continue security integration, also in Agenda 2000 – and do not force farmers to die!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e12154	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! This motion for a resolution also has the necessary number of signatures, but it raises the question of whether the substance required by § 55 of the Rules of Procedure is related both to Mrs Dr Petrovic's request and to that request. [[Call to the liberals: Absolutely!]] In contrast to the view that this is the case, I can only say that when I wrote a comment on the Rules of Procedure in 1968, together with the then Director of Parliament Dr. Czerny, I have already worked intensively on this issue. It was also § 55 of the Rules of Procedure, in which this context was called for. And the purpose is also quite clear, namely that, in a debate on a particular subject, one can decide on either a certain committee document or a urgent request or a urgent question relating to the matter. But no one can really seriously say that the debate on agriculture, which the Minister of Agriculture is speaking and replying to, is related to the decision on Austrian foreign and security policy. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Oja, in Agenda 2000!]] I would draw attention to the fact that the Rules of Procedure of 1875 did not at all raise the issue of the context of the matter, because it was intended to protect the Assembly of the National Council – at the time the House of Deputies – from the fact that a minority would not be overrun with a request concerning a matter which did not correspond to the preliminary consultation of the matter so far. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, for example, in dealing with the provisions on lex legitiva, we have only reached agreement in the presidential conference a few months ago on the fact that such provisions of the Rules of Procedure are concrete, correct and strict. I believe that an unacceptable prejudice would be created if the fact – which is completely undisputed – that in Agenda 2000 too the words "East enlargement", "NATO", "security" or similar occur, to say: A request to refer to this subject, namely the subject of the urgent question, is in substance, if only one word or part of the sentence is included in the application. However, I think that this is a very fundamental question, and I begin by saying that President Dr Neisser, whom I have contacted, fully shares my view. That's not just my private opinion. I cannot imagine that the Third President of the National Council would disagree with this opinion either. But I am calling in this case because it is a matter of principle – and therefore every opportunity to deliver its opinion, since it is also a decision that will have meaning for the years to come – and because, if I have a context of content, in future, I cannot easily prevent the majority parties from handling the Rules of Procedure from attending a short presidential meeting and interrupting the meeting for this purpose. The sitting was suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 16.57 p.m. and resumed at 6 p.m.)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e12198	Ladies and gentlemen! I'll start the interrupted session again. After a very detailed discussion at the Presidential Conference, I note that I am in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Petrovic, Mr Mag. Chamberlanders and comrades dealing with questions of European security policy, or with the last request made by Members Scheibner and colleagues, are unable to establish the necessary context for the matter of urgent question under Article 55 of the Rules of Procedure and therefore these two requests are not under negotiation. I would add that I have agreed to contact all Committee Members to try to ensure that the Rules of Procedure are strictly handled in committees, so that they do not measure by two measures and that they are as uniform as possible. All the clubmen have pledged to participate. However, the decision I have just announced is not in agreement, that is, not in agreement with all the political groups. I should like to speak next to Mr Dr. Günter Stummvoll. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e12247	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In today's debate on Agenda 2000, which ultimately deals with the re-design of the European Union up to the next millennium, a number of concerns, fears, fears and skepticism have been expressed. That is quite legitimate. At a time like this, there are, of course, concerns and fears about how things are going to continue. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] I would like to distinguish these legitimate concerns and fears, which we must oppose with information, from the statements made by those infirmaries and black painters, as was the last speaker before the part-session, Mr Scheibner. It was similar to the EU's accession – at the time it was the blue and the blood chocolate – that all this world's evil was painted on the wall, Mr Scheibner. This is unscrupulous and irresponsible! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Tell the people the truth!]] We from the government parties take the concerns and fears of the people seriously. But of those black painters and sick miners you belong to, Mr Scheibner. That too must be said! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! As there was so much talk about these concerns, fears and fears in the previous debate, the dimension of the opportunity must not be mentioned either. I see a triple chance. First of all, I see the historic opportunity – and let us not forget: the EU has been created as a peace initiative – of lasting peacekeeping for Europe. [[Abg. Aumayr: Stop peace!]] The further the European Union's eastern border moves east, the better it is for lasting peace on this continent, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] But I also see a great strategic opportunity, namely that Austria, with its back on the iron curtain for decades, comes out of this border position and goes back to the heart, into the centre of Europe. I also see the great economic opportunities, ladies and gentlemen. Of course, opportunities and risks in the economy are always a pair of concepts. There are not only opportunities, and there are not only risks – there are both. I would like to briefly point out the dimension of the opportunity, economically speaking. I just mention a few examples: Since the opening of the East, since the fall of the Iron Curtain in 1989, nine years ago, only the trade surplus in Austria with Eastern Europe has increased from 7 billion to 37 billion. This shows the dimension of the chance. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Well, then! Then what do we need the Easter enlargement for?]] Mr President, I should like to thank Listen to me! You might still be able to learn something. Second example: Hungary is today our third most important trading partner and has therefore overtaken Switzerland. [[Prolonged calls to the liberals.]] As an export market, Slovenia is already more important than Japan. The Czech Republic is as large as all exports to South America, Canada and Japan. – This is the dimension of the chance! The risk dimension is not only in the field of agriculture. There are also many small traders in the border regions, many small service companies, many workers who understandably also have fears of existence. I would particularly like to introduce this frontier topic, precisely because today's debate is obviously largely devoted to the issue of agricultural agriculture. I stress that the border regions and also the content of Agenda 2000 are not something that interests only agriculture, but also what is of great importance to the industrial economy and, in particular, to the border regions. Ladies and gentlemen! One thing you have to say: Because of this enormous economic opportunity, which represents the opening of Osteropas and which will also be the extension of the East, the border regions are in danger of paying for it economically. And we won't let that happen! [[Abg. May. Stadler: Col. Khol! He's talking about Easter enlargement!]] Mr President, I should like to thank I come directly to Agenda 2000. [[Calls and counter-calls between honourable Members Mag. Stadler and Wabl.]] He doesn't want to listen! The Agenda 2000 is certainly unsatisfying as it is at present, because it does not take sufficient account of border problems. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is the worst abuse!]] I am in fact very grateful to the government for sending it to Brussels in January of this year, where the problem of border areas has been addressed. In the meantime, we now also know the following: The funding framework under Agenda 2000 will include only three target areas: 1, 2 and 3, with 3 being a horizontal target area and not a regional one. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Has this become clear to you after the Lower Austrian country election?]] Mr President, I should like to thank Our challenge – and I would be grateful if you were to work with a little more constructively – is now that we have the frontier problem, which is that our country is more than half of its border region to Central and Eastern Europe and has about one third of the entire EU border to Eastern Europe, that we are housing this element of the border region: first of all in the Objective 2 of Agenda 2000, but also in the area of the INTERREG programme, which is not only developed for cross-border activities, but also for which more resources have to be made available, Mr President. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: They were cut by half! From 2 billion to 1 billion!]] That's the challenge we're facing! Mr President, I should like to thank While you only operate black and white, the Minister for Agriculture, who enjoys the confidence of farmers in our country, is in this area where the agricultural population, but also the axis between farmers and farmers is in good hands. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am firmly convinced that if, in the second half of this year, our Minister of Agriculture will ultimately be responsible for the agricultural policy of the whole of the European Union if he will be among those who are responsible in this area, which will be good for our country. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: We will see that!]] You will see, Mr Reichhold. I am glad that you are not the Minister for Agriculture. I'm glad it's the Willi Molterer. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Yes, me too!]] One last, ladies and gentlemen: I stand here as a representative of the economy for the closest possible cooperation between agriculture and the industrial economy. We're all in a boat. I tell you, in my Waldviertel constituency, we have many tangible projects of cooperation between agriculture and the industrial economy, which show the opportunities of ecologically oriented agriculture in cooperation with tourism, trade and trade. This is the future, and that is future optimism in contrast to blue black painting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e12440	Mrs Aumayr has spoken. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e12461	Minister! Mr President. Mr President, I should like to thank you for your support. The chance for Austria through the opening up of the Eastern states is reality, which is no question at all. Our exports to these so-called reform states have increased dramatically. I'm just asking You now: Why, under the current conditions, do you want these countries to come to the EU if the Austrian economy is in such a position? [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: You didn't pay attention!]] Mr President, I should like to thank you for your support. There is no argument at all for this. Let me explain that! There is no argument for the East opening at this time, as the EU has multi- and bilateral treaties with these countries. That's a fact. One reason for this is that the entire textile industry, heavy industry and also the food industry have already migrated to these countries. Faith Do you really think they would have invested there if they could not export to the EU? [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: You should also receive our environmental standards!]] That's impossible! And if you get the arguments out, you'll come back with peace. There's nothing else left to you. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Border land transport: Mr Stummvoll, Commissioner Wulf-Mathies has already let you know what she considers to be the Austrian demand for border country support. She said: There will be nothing, because Austria will benefit from the opening of the east in the medium and long term. This has already been sent to you by Brussels. So don't talk about cross-border transport here! They already know that there will be no such thing. Then come with the following argument: Switzerland. Colleagues Auer said the same thing: It's terrible in Switzerland. Switzerland deeply regrets that one is not in the EU. – I can only tell you, my colleague, my daughter is currently in education in Switzerland. She really does generate for the behaviour of the Austrians, for the advertising spots on television, which can also be seen in Switzerland and in which Minister Gehrer says: [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: We do not generate for Austria!]] As a Vorarlberger, I am very close to Switzerland, as Switzerland regrets that she is not in the EU. – They just laugh about Austria! I can tell you that! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Steibl: Then walk out!]] APA report of 7. April, my colleague Mr Stummvoll: Swiss trade volume with Germany climbs to record level. Location Switzerland in favor of German investors. In recent years, 1,500 German companies have invested in Switzerland. – The Swiss farmers have the double income of Austrian farmers. And Switzerland itself determines who is going through its country under what conditions, Mr. Collegue stupidly! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Steibl: Go to Switzerland and work there!]] But the debate on Agenda 2000 is again being misused by the EIA. Mr Schwarzböck – he is missing here like Mr Auer, they are speaking and disappearing; Thank God you, Mr Auer, still there – travels all over the country and offers yourself as a patron: [[Abg. Steibl: What does that mean "disappear"? Nice talk!]] We, the ÖVP, protect you from the impact of Agenda 2000. We will prevent Agenda 2000. Before joining the EU, you have just moved through the country and promised the farmers things, have made them hope – and all your promises have broken you. You didn't make any promises! I would remind you of the Europe Treaty. I would remind you of the VAT system. What happened to it? – Take a year They simply leave farmers with 1.7 billion schilling, even though they have been assured by contract, Mr Schwarzenberger, although you have signed this. This is a breach of contract! This is the weakness of a minister. Minister! You do not even stand up to your coalition partner in Austria. In front of every SPÖ Finance Minister, you simply go to your knees, betray and break contracts. How can you explain to us that you will prevail in Brussels if you are not even able to comply with a contract in Austria? That's ridiculous! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] What else did you promise? – The operating resources are getting cheaper. Today, however, we have the highest diesel price in Europe. You promised – you broke it, Minister, and with you the ÖVP. Or what about the hopes and promises of the "Feinkosladen Österreich", of the niches? What to do You with the self-marketers? – They are pressing for a milk hygiene regulation and a meat hygiene regulation, which has nothing to do with hygiene, but in which the food companies have enforced themselves. The conditions are so high that farmers simply can no longer finance it. Or the trade order: 330 000 S income... [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Delicatessen also means good quality!]] Yes, the delicacy store: I think you're standing there all the time, not the farmers, because the farmers are starved in your policy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That is why we are now bringing forward a motion for a resolution, and I would remind you of the promises you have made to the farmers: [[Quoted print version removed]] You have the opportunity today to deliver on your long-term promises.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e12633	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Aumayr is in accordance with the rules of procedure and is included in the negotiations. Mr Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn in word. Mr President, the speaking time for you is 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e12658	Mr President. Minister! High house! I did not think that my long-standing colleague, Mr President, was silently here by my colleague, on the subject of agriculture: What is the difference between east opening and east expansion? I'll get it, but it happened. Great! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: That was necessary!]] But Brussels is well known to be easy on this issue with Austria. Just as one has "overrun" over us in the transit contract, so we do not prove ourselves as Prellbock in Easter enlargement. We have the longest EU border – stupidly said it ourselves. So what would be our task? – Negotiating well because we are the most interested people in the EU as a whole. But, of course, it is not possible with this cuddly government, with this cuddly course you are driving in Brussels. I have to tell you that there is already a portion of simplicity to that! They will now be as stunned as the transit agreement. They still believe that they can argue with Mozart, the Lipizzans and the Heurigen just like Figl. I have to tell you: It's been a few generations. Other negotiators in Brussels are required today. Easter enlargement is not based on security, it is based on the topics of environment, social affairs, employment, finance – you also have to say how you want to pay for cold progression and tax reform in the next millennium, as the Minister of Finance has said – economy and agriculture. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: The odds! Where are the chances?]] You have little idea of the economy; this has proved your business, I remember. Greetings from the "Tagespost"! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Therefore, I would like to make a request on enlargement of the EU: [[Quoted print version removed]] It should not work, ladies and gentlemen, as the particularly smart colleague Juncker expressed in December 1997 on the issue of EU enlargement. One must have an idea – he said in a conversation with our Federal Chancellor – and a date, and all of this must be as harmless as possible. – Negotiating in this way Today, Austria is entering the EU's eastern enlargement: It must be as harmless as possible! That's what Juncker literally said. On the topic of financing... [[Federal Minister Mag. Molterer: And from what country?]] I'll give you the article from the paper, and I'll give you... [[Federal Minister Mag. Molterer: Which country is meant? Please tell the country! Where did he come from?]] On the subject of EU funding, I would like to tell you one more thing... Luxembourg, you failed, you! [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Schwimmer.]] On the subject of financing, Mr Commissioner, I can only say to you: From 13 billion Schilling net contribution will be increased to 27 billion. This is to be financed, although we have a deficit of 70 billion in schilling this year, in an economic period! They said that 2.5 percent of economic growth reduces unemployment. The new data from April are there: 2.3 percent additional unemployment. I could continue here infinitely with the issues of social and employment. They know what the income conditions are in the candidate countries. They amount to about one tenth of what we have as average income in Austria. One cannot overcome these facts and speak of an EU Easter enlargement, which even your Minister of Finance Edlinger said in the private conversation: This is not in question before 2010. But from the dilemma, which has already been said, we have to get out of here. - Citation Zilk.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e12795	The motion for a resolution, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn has just read, has been handed over and sufficiently supported; he is involved in the trial. Mr Wabl's speech is now available. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e12819	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is a pity that the question of Agenda 2000 is being considered so closely and that the security policy has only been addressed in brief by my colleagues today. [[Abg. May. Stadler: There it was allowed!]] I wonder why the applications have not been approved – it would have been fully in conformity with business rules – because that is a crucial question. I am quite right for those critics who believe that there are huge risks in connection with the enlargement of the East and that there are fears in the population, especially in the Eastern region, in the border region, which are to be taken seriously. Ladies and gentlemen! But the question arises – and this is not only to be solved with the differentiation between east opening and east expansion; the liberals obviously only mean "East opening" and not "East enlargement": Under what conditions does this Easter enlargement take place? – It is of course that the reform states belong to Europe, and if the European Union is to be there in the long term, these countries must be involved. The crucial question, however, is: How are these conditions negotiated, under what conditions, and what are the priorities? Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! If the priority is security enlargement, then you also have to say that the American arms industry has already 50 percent of world arms trade in recent years due to the enlargement of the East – a doubling of arms production! – then you must also recognise and say that those reform countries in which the wage level of which you rightly say it is low and that the social convergence criteria are not met must provide huge budget resources for NATO enlargement, which is also a reason for low wages. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Mr President! Is this allowed or is it not?]] This money goes to the countries in the field of infrastructure, in the construction of the economy, in the construction of agriculture. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] They know exactly what it means for a country like Poland, where around 25 percent of the people in agriculture are employed, if this percentage is to be reduced to a certain level and only 5 percent are to be active in agriculture. [[Abg. Scheibner: Why do these states all want to go to NATO? Why do they all want to go to NATO if that's so terrible?]] Where are these 20 percent to go? – Mr Scheibner, this is your analysis in this context. That you present the fears – the legitimate fears – is correct, but your answer is wrong, because it is a reactionary and unolidaric answer! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Why do they all want to go in?]] They say: Austria first! I also say: Austria first – but Austrian security is directly linked to the extent to which social peace is guaranteed, enhanced and improved in the reform states. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Right!]] In this context, we are also obliged... – Mr Scheibner! [[Abg. Scheibner: But without certainty there is no social peace!]] You know very well that the security needs of Russia are severely affected by an enlargement of the East alone in the security field. That is of course! [[Abg. Scheibner: Yes, if you represent the interests of Russia, this is your problem!]] I do not represent the interests of Russia; I only say that these countries are, of course, uncertain when NATO approaches Moscow. Of course, the "falcons" will be blown there to revitalize and strengthened those people who believe that the Cold War will start again. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] – But this is a category of thinking that is completely different from you. You think you should go ahead with a policy of de-olidarization, and always say in Austria: Of course, people should build their country, seek security in their country, shape their homeland. – That’s right, but they must also have an opportunity to do so, and they must have the support and cooperation of the rich Western European countries! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is therefore necessary for us to conduct open cooperation negotiations at the same time as we take the fears seriously. In this context, I say quite openly to the ÖVP and to the Social Democrats: What you have done in recent years has been a smooth neglect of this problem! Where is the trade union war, where are the great connections of the European trade union, which acts as a unit in order to meet exactly the same standards for all in the field of labour law, in order to achieve common levels in the number of hours worked per week? Where, then, is the European level for minimum wages to be paid which have been fought by the trade union – by the European trade union, not only by the small-scale Austrian trade union? Where are the Europe-wide environmental standards that have been met by Austria, and where could the Minister of Agriculture also occur? Minister for Agriculture Molterer! If you set a clear objective during the EU Presidency, how can this look only to ensure Austrian agriculture? – They must then, together with the European Agriculture Ministers, ensure environmental and social standards and, of course, ensure that international negotiations under the WTO aim to: If there is a ban on pesticides in Austria when eco-taxes are introduced in Austria when environmental standards are introduced in Austria, of course this must also apply to imported goods! Of course! You have to work for this, and then there will be clear progress not only for the benefit of Europe and Austria – which is our first concern – but for the benefit of all countries and all the peoples of this earth. If there is globalisation, then there can be only one way of increasing justice, of increasing social and environmental standards, so that markets are not only conquered. Mr Stummvoll, of course, is quite right in his statement – he is quite specific about what he is talking about when he speaks of the enlargement of the East – that an expansion of export opportunities has taken place with regard to the Eastern States, from 7 billion to 37 billion – also in the agricultural sector, Mr. Reichhold! What happened? – Not the Eastern European countries have delivered agricultural products to us, but we have found markets there. At last the shops are full! [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Super, what an Easter expansion for?]] People don't have to do it anymore to get meat, they can finally buy something! Only: The problem there is that, because of unemployment, people can no longer buy what we supply them. And that is why we will need to help them build up their structures and not move forward with reactionary patterns of thinking. Of course, it will be necessary to negotiate hard, because there are governments in the reform countries who believe that the neoliberal course is the course that is good for their countries. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Reichhold]] They believe that the American dream can be achieved by submining all labour law laws, squeezing out and reducing solidarity. Ladies and gentlemen! There are already construction companies in Berlin that employ people at an hourly wage of 70 Pfennig! If this is the new form of Easter enlargement, there can only be a clear no! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: I hope so!]] If the neoliberal course prevails, then there can be no Yes! [[Further calls to the liberals.]] The question is whether the liberals are willing to act in solidarity, or to act selfishly and outrightly. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Of course!]] To do this, you need to find an open word. Mr Reichhold! I know the speeches! When it comes to playing the great statesman, Mr. Haider turns himself up and says: Of course! We must ensure that the reform states in their own country build something, and we must help them. – However, when it comes to an amount decided here in Austria, namely an amount for the promotion of the environment or for the construction of infrastructure in these countries, it is immediately added up and said: The money is given there, but our poor pensioners are not given anything! [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Who will cash the money? The Mafia!]] You'll play a group against the others again. This is reactionary policy, and we can't win it! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e13055	Deputies! You have presented here a motion for a resolution which has not been read. It cannot therefore be dealt with on a business basis. - That's for clarification. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Wabl goes back to the speaker's desk.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: That's not possible, the speaking time is over!]] [[Call:Set]] [[Further calls.]] [[Unrest in the hall.]] Mr Wabl! I'm sorry, your speech has ended. The application was submitted but has not been read. It cannot therefore vote. Ladies and gentlemen! There is no more word message for this. The debate is closed. I ask you to take the seats. We shall come to the vote on some of the amendments. We are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Petrovic and Mr Comrades on the abolition of the EU processing premium, the "herodes premium". I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution by Mr Aumayr and Mr Comrades on tax relief for Austrian farmers. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Principality and comrades on EU enlargement and Agenda 2000. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of This request has been made by 20 Members. The vote will therefore have to be taken. I recall the rules on voting: The voting papers to be used are located in the drawer of the House of Deputies and bear the name of the Deputies as well as the name "Yes" – these are the grey polls – or "No" – which are the pink polls. Only those official votes can be used for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the votes in the votes cast. I am looking for those Members who are in favour of the Dipl.-Ing resolution. Prinzhorn vote, "Yes" vote, and those who vote against to cast "No" vote note into the urn. I now ask Mrs Reitsamer to start with the name call. Mrs Applebeck will replace them later. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e13166	The vote will end. I would ask the House's officials to make their votes, under the supervision of the authors. I am interrupting the meeting for this purpose.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e13199	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. There were 163 votes, 38 "Yes" votes and 125 "No" votes. The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn and comrades are therefore rejected. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, stating their voting behaviour. With "Yes", the Members voted: Apple beck, Aumayr; Bauer Holger, Blünegger, Böhacker, Brauneder; Dolnschek; Förlinger; Gaugg, Grollitsch; Haider, Haller, Chief, Hofmann; Koller, Krüger, Kurzmann; Lauter; Madl, Meischberger, Meisinger, Mentil; Nut trees; Partik-Pablé, Povysil, Preisinger, Prinzhorn, Pumberger; Reichhold; Salzl, Scheibner, Schöggl, Schreiner, Schweitzer, Stadler; Trattner; Wabl, Wenitsch. With 'No', the Members voted: Ablinger, Achs, Amon, Auer, Bauer Rosemarie, Bauer Sophie, Binder, Brinek, Brix, Buder, Bures; Cap; Dietachmayr, Donabauer; Eder Kurt, Edler Joseph, Ellmauer, Fekter, Feurstein, Fink, Freser, Fuchs, Fuhrmann; Gaal, Gartlehner, Gatterer, Gatterer, Grabner, Gradwelt, Gredler, Großruck, Guggenberger, Gusenbauer, Hagenhofer, Haidlmayr, Heindl Kurt, Heinzl Anton, Hlavac, Höchtl, Horngacher, Huber, Hums; Jäger, Jarolim; Kaipel, Kammerlander, Kampichler, Karlsson, Kaufmann, Doppelmüller, Khol, Kiermaier, Kiss, König, Koppler, Kostelka, Krammer, Herbs, Kröll, Kukacka, Kummerer, Kurzbauer; Lacner, leikam, leinner, leashnak, Luke; Maier, Maitz, Marizzi, Mertel, Moser Gabriela, Moser Hans Helmut, Moser Sonja, Motter, Mühlbachler, Müller; Neisser, Niederwieser, Nowotny, Nürnberger; Oberhaidinger, oillinger; Perfuss, Parnigoni, Peter, Petrovic, Pittermann, Platter, Posch, Puttinger; Rada, Rasinger, Rauch-Kallat, Reitsmer, Riepl; Sauer, Schaffenrath, Schirder, Schrefel, Schuster, Schwarzenberger, Schwemmlein, Schwimmer, Seidinger, Sigl, Silhavy, Spindelegger, Stampler, Steibl, Steindl, Stippel, Stoisits, Stummful; Tegischer, Tichy-Schreiter, Drinkl, Tychtl; Wallner, Wicker, Worm, Wormitzer; Zweytick. Short debate on deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e13368	We are now entering into a brief debate. This debate concerns the request made by Mr Scheibner, the Committee on Foreign Affairs to report on the motion for a resolution 152/A (E) on the opening of negotiations with the Contracting Parties to the North Atlantic Treaty on the accession of Austria to the NATO Treaty, a period of until 11. In May 1998, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws of the Member States relating to the Member States of the Member I would like to draw attention to the fact that after this debate the vote on this request will take place. We are going into the debate. Under the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes. The first speaker, however, has a speaking time of 10 minutes for reasons. Similarly, opinions from members of the Federal Government and from state secretaries should not last more than 10 minutes. I begin by speaking as an applicant to Mr Scheibner. You have a speech time of 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e13398	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Our proposal for a deadline is clearly in line with today's foreign policy debate. We also demand that Parliament, after the failure of the Federal Government in the agreement on the option report, proceed with this request for a deadline. So far we, the honourable Member, have always been told that it makes no sense for Parliament to discuss a matter and perhaps decide on it before this report of options is available to Parliament. The request to which we wish to put this time limit is a motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Haider, Mr Scheibner and others on the opening of negotiations with the parties to the North Atlantic Treaty on the accession of Austria to the NATO Treaty. And this request, which is not our first request in this direction, comes – you hear and marvel! - from the year 1996, in March 1996. Since March 1996, this request has been suspended in the Committee on Foreign Policy. The argument that one had to wait for the option report has repeatedly delayed the treatment of this request. A few months ago, a subcommittee was set up in which a number of requests concerning security policy had been submitted. The spokesperson of the SPÖ and the chairman of the committee has pledged that, after the option report had been submitted, the relevant applications would also be dealt with in the subcommittee. Well, Mr Schieder, it was probably nothing with the option report. It is now the responsibility of Parliament to complete the vacuum that this Federal Government has produced with the failure of this important question. Now Parliament is in line. At last, these requests, which have been waiting for many years, must be dealt with quickly in the Committee on Budgets. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It can't be that we're still waiting for this disputing federal government to agree on a cuddly course, and finally we're going to have something to talk about. We are the people who owe our voters to finally clarify this issue of the future of the security of Austria. Mr Schieder and also Mr Spindelegger – I do not know whether he is in the Chamber now – I would remind you that you yourself have been – have been discussed today too – who in 1997 in February 1997 asked the Federal Government in a resolution to present the relevant option report by the end of the first quarter of 1998. Now I ask you, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and SPÖ: If you take yourself seriously, do you take your own requests to make your own decisions seriously when you do not want to see a federal government working against your own requests, your motions for resolutions ignored, and you are not even prepared to speak and answer this failure here in Parliament, as we saw today in the early days? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You ultimately have to answer this before your conscience and also the mandate given to you by the voters. We believe that after eight years of debate – eight years of debate here in Austria on security policy after the turn in the East – all the facts are now on the table, and we ultimately have the responsibility here in Parliament to actually vote on it before the summer. Ladies and gentlemen! If I say that there was an eight-year debate, let us all remember how this debate started, how you responded to the beginning of this debate, when our party chairman Jörg Haider declared for the first time in the summer of 1990: Communism is at the end, there has been a turn, now we must also respond to it, now we have to ask ourselves whether neutrality can still meet the requirements of security policy or whether a membership of an alliance would be better in line with the security needs of our country. – A storm of indignation is then swept away from the liberal or the liberal partyobmann. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: State enemy number 1!]] What you didn't say: State enemy number 1; he wants to destroy Austrian identity and more. Everything sounds completely different today. It is also true that at least some people in this House have been able to learn. But, ladies and gentlemen, why does this learning process take so long for you? – Other countries have been able to make much faster and more clear decisions. If you look at tomorrow's newspapers, Mr Schieder, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, you can read that there has been an overwhelming majority in the Czech Republic for NATO accession, that only the radical forces on the left and right have voted against such integration into the Western Defence Alliance. I do not understand why there is still such a large political group in democratic, Western Austria, which can still befriended by such arguments. [[Abg. Arbitrators: It is interesting that you do not want it in the EU, but in NATO already! That's defamatory!]] Mr. Schieder! I can tell you that. Thank you for the call. Do you know what the difference is? – Security policy is a clear task, is a clear matter that is best organised together with the State community; and the existing security alliances are exactly what we understand by international integration that we are entering into a separate treaty for each Member State, that we are also dealing with uneven conditions and not, as is the case in the European Union, all about a comb. [[Abg. Arbitrators: human rights, culture, economy, nothing?]] Even if countries have different conditions, different economic strength, different access to the various instruments also the European Union, everything must be treated equally there. It is organised centrally, there are directives that are based on Brussels. [[Abg. Arbitrators: And NATO is so federalistic?]] . These are the problems we have with the European Union, Mr. Schieder. In the field of security policy, for example, NATO, with each candidate country, is entering into a separate treaty which clearly defines the rights and obligations. I believe you understand this, Mr Schieder, but here you must not speak exactly as you would like to do when it really came to you that Austria is involved in security policy organisations. [[Abg. Arbitrators: With us you can be more than with you!]] Ask You are also the other representatives of your party, who are with us if we as observers – unfortunately only as observers! – are, for example, in the Parliamentary Assembly of NATO and the Western European Union. While we can see what a start in security policy development is, what has happened in recent years, that former enemies are sitting at a table and building together the security-political structures of the future, we Austrians are literally sitting behind the pillars in the last row and are allowed to observe, but not to say so and not to decide. And, Mr Schieder, if we are already at the NATO General Assembly: It is not even possible for the President of the National Council, the President of this House, to make a positive decision on an offer to the Austrian Parliament, namely to raise Austria's position on the status of Albania, Russia and Bulgaria, at least to allow the association to take place in this area. Ladies and gentlemen! How can one be drilled, in what old patterns of thinking must one think that one cannot even support such a measure here?- Oh, my God! - That's where you need some follow-up. I believe that Austria would have many opportunities to participate, for example, in the construction of a European security structure, which, you know very well, will only take place within or at least in conjunction with NATO in the future, as it will ensure Austrian security at the same time cost-effectively and efficiently in the long run. Ladies and gentlemen! That's why it's very clear: No matter what you think in this direction and at this level, it is now necessary that we have an open and finally honest debate on the options in security policy, here in Parliament, that we discuss in the committees, that we discuss in plenary and that we finally decide and then present this decision with the people's decision-making bases, so that the population is involved in this important issue, as is the case with Austrian security policy in the future. Finally stop the veils, stop with the false information! Finally, allow an objective discussion and also a quick and clear decision!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e13500	The next speaker is Mr Arbitrator. I would like to draw attention to this: For all speakers who are now following, a speaking time limit of 5 minutes applies. [[Abg. Arbitrators: I can accept it for myself, not for others, Mr President!]] That's an announcement for the others.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e13530	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Scheibner has certainly been right in a question, namely that, if there is no option report, it is not necessary to postpone for a long time the requests we have put back for this purpose. I would like to thank him on this point. If one says that one deals with the applications together with one thing, and this thing does not occur, then of course one can deal with the individual applications. I am in favour of doing so as soon as possible in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. There is no need to set deadlines for this. I hope we agree on the dates. If it goes after me, they'll be right before the time you called it. I hope that applicants will at least make no difficulties in making appointments, because they want to have that until May. Of course, why the deadline request has been submitted and why the whole thing is being played so strongly: The Freedom Party wants to play the thing up as long as it goes. Two government parties are not of the opinion – that is what they want to play. That's clear. But if the 11th. May be some particularly necessary date, I doubt. At the beginning of May, although the Day of the State Treaty and the Assumption of Christ, none of these data is based on the fact that applications must be made until that date. So I am in favour of making it soon, I am in favour of, as always in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, agreeing on an appointment. However, I am against the fact that we are doing this with deadlines, and I am also opposed to the intention to use this only to wipe out the coalition parties and the government one. On the issue of membership or hospitality, observer status in the NATO assembly: There is also a request in this regard. I am in favour of talking about this issue without emotions and calmly in the Committee on Foreign Policy. [[Abg. Scheibner: In May we sit there...!]] – You started with your chairman. I have already said that I am in favour of speeding up the whole process. I can't repeat my statements once again, although you're kind enough to listen to me now, but maybe someone else will tell you. So we'll surely find ourselves there. I think the key to setting an appointment that you are applying here is wrong. We shall vote against. We will, however, endeavour to reach an appointment by agreement. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e13568	Mr Maitz has now come to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e13589	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What you see here is a facsimile print of the North Atlantic contract. [[The speaker shall keep a document up to date.]] Two pages, 14 short articles, twelve signatures of the founding states, of which ten are European states, America and Canada, and on page 3 of the facsimile are four other European states that joined NATO at a later date. This Treaty proves that NATO was and is from the first day to the political security community of the Western world – a security shield under which a unique social, economic and democratic development has taken place in the Member States and in the neighbouring countries of the European Member States, including Austria, through five decades. The key to this success is simple, amazingly simple. The Member States agreed 50 years ago: We want to ensure freedom, common heritage and civilisation of the peoples on the principles of democracy, the freedom of the person and the rule of the right. It's easy! The Signatory States shall assure each other of their assistance in the event of an armed attack against one or more Member States, each in the form that the sovereign State, the Member himself, decides to provide such assistance. There is therefore no automatic obligation to update troops. It shall decide for each individual what is appropriate in the event of an event, in accordance with the principle: One for all, all for one. [[Abg. Arbitrators: But there are other duties that apply to everyone!]] There is the sovereign decision of each State in which assistance is provided. Therefore, the assistance is not the military force. The holding effect has taken full effect. There was no attack on a NATO Member State for 49 years. Following the collapse of the Eastern bloc, NATO has offered the "Partnership for Peace" and, of course, 16 NATO countries and 28 European countries, including all Eastern countries, including all the neutral states of Europe, have accepted this offer. The "Partnership for Peace" is thus the largest and most comprehensive peace initiative in and for Europe that has ever existed in history. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is a new quality of the political encounter of states of different structures, the preliminary stage, if you wish, for united states of Europe, as well as the EU in a long process. This goal was formulated by the Austrian Coudenhove-Kalergi in 1927. Did you notice anything? – Whenever leaders of the Social Democratic Party talk about the "Partnership for Peace", they never say "NATO". They are just talking about the "Partnership for Peace", not that it is a establishment of NATO. Why do you think? [[Abg. Arbitrators: Do you know why? – Because the documents of the Ministry of Defence never contain NATO!]] NATO Partnership for Peace! [[Abg. Arbitrators: No, just "PfP"!]] Klubobmann Kostelka spoke again this morning about NATO as a "pure military pact". In a typical diction of the Greens, Kostelka speaks of a "relict of the Cold War". You know why? – Because the SPÖ-Stratgens have chosen the possibility of Austrian accession to NATO as part of their 1999 electoral campaign concept, thus dissociating themselves from the People's Party. Without regard to Austria's reputation in Europe and without regard to the best security for our country! [[Abg. Arbitrator: This is the fairytale strategy! Jetti-Tant military planning!]] We will not agree to the request made by the Liberal Party for a deadline. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] You're asking why. – Because it will certainly not serve to convince the Socialist Group. Secondly, when Mr Scheibner asks why, I tell him clearly: [[Abg. Scheibner: I didn't ask why! I said it was clear to me anyway!]] Those who defame the efforts of the democratic parties as a mean political game, as a mafia procedure, as a last-class lubrication comedy, like you, Mr Scheibner, in an issue of 31. It cannot be expected to have done so on March 1st.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e13707	Mr Magistrate is now coming. Stadler. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e13728	Mr President. High house! Mr Maitz. You should eventually decide how by the way your whole party would like to be a mandl or a female. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Maitz.]] Now you have had over a year to make this decision. They say: I would like to be in favour of NATO, but I do not trust to be in favour of it because another party, which is against it, clearly says that it will be against it. What kind of attitude is that? – This is a classical trapping, Mr Maitz! That's a crash policy you're running here! [[New condolences with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: We do persuasion!]] In the morning, during the current hour, your clubman Khol came to the speaker's desk and explained in arrogance – I quote – that you don't want to match the government's partner, but you want to convince him, and in the afternoon, the colleague Maitz bravely continues to be like a parrot. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You too! But they're not a parrot, they're a Doberman!]] I quoted you. I quoted your parrot, Mr. Khol. Your parrot has done a good job, which should only cover the fact that you do not have the political mum to agree to at least a deadline today. Not even consent to a deadline is enough! Mr. Schieder! For your question, why do we go up to 11. May have clarity to answer: Because we want to prevent us from attending the full NATO Assembly on 21 January. May, ten days later, still do not know whether colleague Maitz is a mandl or a female and whether Austria is for or against going to NATO. This is the problem, Mr President. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lukesch.]] There are people who have said: We have an option report because the House has decided that by the end of the quarter of 1998 you will know what you want. Now there is still no option report because the government is obviously unable... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] Clear You were, Mr Schieder, it would be best if you just left the colleagues of the ÖVP at home, because the ÖVP does not know what to say there anyway. Although the ÖVP is a government party, it is for NATO, but it does not trust to be for it because you are against it. Go alone and explain: [[Abg. Arbitrary shakes the head indiscriminately]] The socialist-dominated Federal Government is against it, and therefore it is sufficient that only socialists are represented there! This is the real consequence, Mr Arbitrator, that you should draw. Are you different, or are you not my opinion? It would be more reasonable and also more economical if you left the ÖVP at home and led it alone and explained that the ÖVP had nothing to say anyway, the SPÖ decided only whether Austria would join NATO or not, and the SPÖ had just decided that Austria would not become a member of NATO. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Who wants to suspect this, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ? If you have such a mummless government partner as the ÖVP is one, you can... [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Now the parrot speaks!]] No, I'm not a parrot! [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: A Dobermann!]] No, no, no, If you weren't a black man, you'd actually be an ara, so you'd populate everything your clubman's planning on. Mr. Schieder! Just leave the ÖVP aside, leave it at home! It would be cheaper, Mr President, to use this money better elsewhere, because the EIA still does not know what it wants to do. It does not even agree to a deadline, according to which Parliament should clarify before the full NATO Assembly what Parliament believes in the NATO accession question. Mr. Schieder! I have already been a little surprised that you too are against this deadline. Clarity is not bad, especially if you have to go on the international stage! Or am I deceiving? Do you take a different view in this regard? It is good if Austria represents a clear position on this question! This highlights the ÖVP on every occasion. [[Abg. Arbitrators: I can do that without a deadline!]] At the time, in February 1997, to help Mr Spindelegger and the ÖVP out of embarrassment – I was present at this committee meeting myself – I know that – you invented the idea with the option report. They meant that they could gain time and try to convince each other first. The sicker process at the ÖVP has taken eight years, and you seem to have taken a little longer to reach the state of the ÖVP. Ladies and gentlemen! I wish for Austria that, once a decision has been taken – and it should soon fall – it should be clear that the partners at international level, our friends in the international community, know what Austria really wants. The worst thing we can do to our country at the moment is to leave some ambiguity behind. But Mr Maitz must be alone with himself and with the ÖVP, namely that he does not know whether he is for it or against it. I do not want to quote Mr Cap at this point. The Austrian People's Party is not the SPÖ. In the SPÖ, the dominant position of the party president is still valid. However, it did not prevail. It is clear that the SPÖ is against NATO with a voice. Josef Cap, too, dares not say anything. He is not as presumptuous as Mr Maitz, namely that he goes out here and says he is for NATO, but then he is voting against it. Ladies and gentlemen! The problem we currently have in Austria is the following: We have a government party or a government team that does not know what it wants, and in their opinion it is best to remain that way for as long as possible. But we liberals want to set a time limit for the whole of the state to finally end the unclear policy of the Federal Government!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e13875	The next speaker is Mr Hans Helmut Moser. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e13899	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is really a sad game, which the Federal Government is showing in terms of security policy: It is not in a position to present the option report to Parliament and thus to comply with or implement its own policy guidelines. However, the government parties are also unable to comply with a resolution of the National Council, which clearly and clearly stated in February 1997 or decided that, by the time the EU Presidency is adopted by Austria, that is, during the first quarter of 1998, we will have to discuss here in this House the option report on the prospects of Austrian security policy. Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Government was unable to do so. And today this mourning game has been continued: Mr Schieder came out here and suddenly offered us dates for discussions in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Mr Maitz from the ÖVP, on the other hand, came out here and, in principle, spoke only for one option, but on the other hand, he was opposed to the time-limits that we decided here in this House a year ago, so that we can reach a decision in Parliament until the summer following a corresponding consultation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Maitz]] It would be necessary for us to have completed the Committee's discussions by May or June at the latest, and that is why this deadline is necessary. We Liberals will vote in favour of this deadline proposal, because we believe that it is necessary for this Parliament to have clear prospects for future Austrian security policy, if already this Federal Government is not able to do so. [[Call to the liberals:Bravo!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I really think that the ÖVP is suddenly "inventing" the security debate here. I wonder, What discussion does the Austrian People's Party actually want to hold? How does she intend to conduct this discussion? We heard that there should be no vote on the Austrian People's Party' s Party's optional report, which will be introduced at some point in time in Parliament and then assigned to the committee responsible. This means that, if there is no vote, there will be no serious discussions on it in a committee. Mr Maitz and Mr Khol. What discussion should be held here? Are we supposed to be holding sublime debates? I would like to hear a very clear statement and a clear statement from you. If you want to have a discussion, this has to be a discussion, in which we actually come to a decision in this House, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Or should the optional report of the Austrian People's Party be dealt with in the same way as the request made by the Liberals in March 1996 or our motion for a resolution in which the Federal Government was asked to enter into discussions on Austria's accession to the Western European Union immediately? Mr. Schieder! We made this request in February 1997 and now this request is staggering because it has been before the Foreign Policy Committee for a year. [[Abg. Dispensers: He is not stubbed. We have the data processing, and there's nothing stabbing! In terms of content, maybe!]] He has already been stowed, Mr Arbitrary, but not in content, Mr Schieder. I believe that it represents a real perspective for Austrian security policy. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Then do not say that he is stubble.]] It is necessary that the applications which have already been dusted be dusted, and I will take you to the floor, Mr Schieder, and ask you to ensure that we actually get to the Foreign Policy Committee very quickly. Ladies and gentlemen! It is also necessary for all options to be put on the table, be it the option offered by the Austrian People's Party, or the option of the Greens or our request or the request of the Liberals, so that we can really have a clear and open debate on security policy in this House. However, it will not be enough, ladies and gentlemen, if we see Austria's future security policy as closely as Mr Maitz does, who knows only one thing: either NATO accession or neutrality. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz shakes his head.]] That, Mr Maitz, is too little. There are also other aspects, other dimensions, other possibilities. Especially in the light of the Treaty of Amsterdam, we should look more closely at the European perspective, the European option and take the lead in our debate, our deliberations. The European dimension, Mr Maitz, manifests itself in a possible accession of Austria to the Western European Union. The Western European Union is the European Union's security and defence policy arm and should also be the focus of Austrian security and defence policy in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e13977	The next and last speaker is Mrs Mag. Kammerlander. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e14007	Mr President. Aha, there's another lighter from the budget debate. [[The speaker has a lighter on the speaker's desk.]] [[Dr. Khol, Member of Parliament, brings the lighter to the attention of Dr. Hazelsteiner.]] Would you like to light the speaker's mouth? Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. Once again, we are in one of our most popular debates, which is the one about a deadline – the only way of the opposition to draw attention to what requests go down where. Mr. Schieder! To speak of the trick of the definition is truly an exaggeration, because it does not work because you unfortunately have the majority in this House and vote against any deadline request. Even if, as you have said, you are tending and content to deal with this matter quickly, you will, as I can now judge, vote against this deadline. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Well closed!]] In addition, in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, you have cheerfully pushed up and down for more than a year the requests of the Liberals, those of the Liberal Forum and also our requests for security policy, as you have just done in the past: An application was granted to the Subcommittee against the will of the applicant, a second was immediately completed, and a third was left at all. As they have done in the past, you have been involved with the requests. A request for a deadline is really the last plea we have as an opposition if we want our requests to be dealt with properly. [[Abg. Arbitrator: Is that your request?]] The opposition's requests! They shall proceed in the same way with all requests received from the opposition. It is important to draw attention to this. I do not at all agree with this request in substance, but I do not agree with your approach, in the way that you, as a majority here in the House, deal with the opposition's requests. Indeed, they deal with the opposition's requests as if it were only annoying to deal with them. This concerns in particular the applications concerning the security policy of Austria, which also concerns the question of possible NATO accession. As you have not produced an option report, you have set yourself a procedure that is more than strange. Some of my previous speakers have already said that. As I understand it, you will bring in your options, which we are then allowed to discuss, but are not allowed to vote, because there could be something quite scary, perhaps quite different, new majority. I can assure you that you can and should vote calmly on our report of options or on our request. In fact, I also expect the Social Democratic Group to acknowledge color. If you always say that you are against joining NATO, then you will probably be able to agree to our option report in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Why? We just need to stick to the law!]] Because it does not provide for accession to NATO, but contains a definition, a definition of a common foreign and security policy. [[Abg. Arbitrators: In order to stay the way you are, you must not make a decision!]] No, that's not true! You obviously haven't read our option report yet. He goes beyond what is now planned. Read it and get a picture of it! [[Abg. Arbitrators: But let's not go any further!]] But I don't think it's right to get out of here and fight right away. I do not want to say anything about Mr Maitz's comments, because you have spoken the evening prayer here, obviously according to the hour. This began with the swearing of the three Musketeers "one for all, all for one", which has already sounded very similar, and reached the conclusion that NATO - seen with a obviously sad look - is a peace community that has ensured economic and democratic development and peace in Europe, and has been overlooked that it has required quite different institutions and measures. But on that and on the proposals the EIA will put forward there, we can then discuss them in the Committee. It is not so unusual that the EIA does not agree with this deadline request if it does not even agree with its own request. You from the ÖVP submit a request on options and will not agree to them on your own request. So, in view of that, I am not surprised that you do not even agree to a deadline. In any case, we will agree to this deadline, just as we also agree with all the deadlines – because we believe that applications that are being submitted should also be dealt with seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e14110	There is no more word message. The debate is therefore closed. We shall proceed to the vote. – I therefore ask you to take the seats. We are now voting on the request to the Foreign Policy Committee to report on the resolution 152/A (E) concerning the opening of negotiations with the Contracting Parties to the North Atlantic Treaty on Austria's accession to the NATO Treaty for a period of until 11. In May 1998, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws of I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this deadline request to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The deadline application is rejected. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e14149	I now take the negotiations on the 1. The item on the agenda relating to the first reading of the Federal Finance Act for 1999, together with investments, will be resumed. Mr Magistrate has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Schreiner. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e14173	Mr President. Federal Minister for Finance! Ladies and gentlemen! The current debate on the issue of the non-existent Federal Government option report prompts me to conclude: No progress in security policy due to the inaction of the Federal Government and no progress on the tax reform that we urgently needed, as a result of your inactivity, Mr. Federal Minister for Finance, and the entire Federal Government. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! On the occasion of your appointment as Minister of Finance, you have – also in allusion to the question of the EU Presidency from 1. July 1998 – make it sound that you consider tax harmonisation to be one of the most important issues for which you will use yourself in your role as Minister of Finance and also in the time when you are chairman of the ECOFIN Council. I would now like to point out that you still have no opinion on the question of taxes, which is also very much related to the design of the 1999 budget. They are currently letting a tax reform commission work and think, but SPÖ has no position at all. However, this Commission is being told a lot of things that will in the next few days cause the Austrians to become quite incorruptible. The only thing that has been heard so far is that there should be a reduction in the unit value and a reduction in the basic tax, which I am referring to as an attack on the property of many Austrians who have created a house, and on the property of many farmers who already do not know where they are going to get the money because of the lack of agricultural policy in the Federal Government, and who are now being asked to cash again. Federal Minister! I think it is necessary to implement a tax reform already now, because if you help now, you will help twice. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Doing this But you don't, you're putting it on the long bench. Among the proposals that come from the coalition partner ÖVP is a kind of mini-proposal by my colleague, Mr Stummvoll, with an investment volume of 11 billion schilling, which I would like to call a simplification of the structural reforms. This proposal is a very thin paper, which I noticed as follows: The aim is to improve equity by providing for a relatively fictitious interest rate as a deposit item. This has already been done in many countries, but it is impracticable because it opens the door and door to the bureaucracy of the tax administration and only makes the current situation worse. I noticed something else about this ÖVP proposal: In this one has the forehead to say: We demand the abolition of the drinking tax! But against five requests from the liberals who had this request, was voted by the entire EIA Group and by all the Economic and Social Committee officials. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Like NATO!]] In the same way as in the NATO question, the ÖVP has fallen over the issue of the abolition of the drinking tax. Although 300 000 signatures for the abolition of the drinking tax have been collected by the ÖVP officials of the Economic Federation – that is part of a "tax reform paper 2000" – I bet that a request by the liberals to abolish the drinking tax would be made today, it would not receive the consent of the ÖVP. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is not a tax and financial policy that deserves this designation, Mr Federal Minister for Finance – I am quite clear to you. Now I want to make a grunt to the greens and the LIF. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: The LIF!]] Liberal Forum. Excuse me, Mrs. Colleague! – I know only two tax proposals from the Greens, namely the introduction of an eco-debit and the increase in the petrol price to 20 S or 25 S. On the proposal of the Liberal Forum I noticed that he was a so-called "Lex Peter". The "Lex Peter" provides for a reduction in the VAT on accommodation companies from 10 per cent to 5 per cent in order to achieve a better pace of march for the local tourism industry. This is a clear proposal from the Liberals. I'm just saying one thing, Mr. Peter: We will not bring together tax reform alone with this reduction that could be discussed. This is what I call the legislation of a president of the Hoteliers' Association, but not a financial speaker of the Liberal Forum. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister for Finance! The liberals have other proposals. Our club and party officer has already explained a few things here. I would just like to mention a few principles as to how we imagine a tax reform. The first: It is necessary to lay down constitutionally a reduction to a percentage of less than 40 percent of the total tax rate on gross domestic product. There must be simplification, fair treatment of taxpayers must take place. This tax reform must increase purchasing power, and this tax reform must create fair and manageable conditions of competition. Federal Minister for Finance! I believe that all your proposals, which have so far come from the Tax Reform Commission, will not be suitable for this. Finally, take a heart and remember that there is some time! Finally, take seriously the requests made by the liberals, who have now arrived in the Subcommittee together with requests from the Liberals and the Greens, so that in 2000 we can really come to a tax reform at the parliamentary level, which guarantees us that, as an economic location in Austria, we will come to a better future with the self-employed workers and businesses! Federal Minister! We are debating the 1999 budget, and I do not want to make it clear that I have noticed a number of things that can be said here under the title "beautiful right". Federal Minister! You also need urgent reform. If I look at the fact that we have businesses in Austria, which have been established here by international corporations, with the annual accounts on the table within two months, which draw up forecasting and budgeting quarterly, so that key figures are already on the table three days after the end of a calendar month, then, Federal Minister, I would remind you that you are budgeting 767 billion expenditure and 697 billion revenue without a budget committee in this Parliament, which checks whether this is really being observed, without any attempts to save, without removing the so-called November fever, where everything is spent, otherwise there is a risk that you will no longer get these budget items next year, without any transfer of a position from one calendar year to the other, without any means of real budget planning. Federal Minister for Finance! In addition to the tax reform, there would also be an urgent need for action. I believe that this is also part of a modern budgetary and financial policy. If you have any proposals on this, the Freeman will certainly be your partner. But if you do as you have so far, if you push everything to the long bank, and say that the government will make it sound like that, and Parliament does not have to have an opinion on it and not give an opinion, then you will not be able to count on us liberals.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e14250	Mr Mag. Peter spoke about an actual correction. – Please begin with the claim you want to correct.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e14275	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Schreiner claimed that the Liberal Forum did not have a tax concept, he would only know a proposal for VAT. – That does not correspond to the truth. It is true, on the other hand, that at our last Federal Forum we have decided on a liberal tax concept which Mr Schreiner can have at any time. Secondly, the proposal to reduce VAT on hotels is not a proposal from the Liberal Forum. It is therefore not a party-political proposal, but a proposal from the Austrian Hoteliers' Association, which refers it to all the political groups in this House, but which does not carry a party-political punch. I ask Mr Schreiner to listen better in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e14312	Mrs Schaffenrath is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e14334	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Finance! Ladies and gentlemen! . I am really pleased that you are igniting the light again, Minister. [[on the government bank is a cake with a red candle in the middle]] [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: Advent, Advent, a light little one is burning!]] I am glad because I feel it as a nice gesture to the liberals. [[Federal Minister Edlinger: Promise – held!]] I am pleased that you are actually going to light up exactly that cake, which cannot be there, because it is already distributed in all parts of the world by a missing policy. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: The last light is burning!]] And I am pleased, Minister of Finance, that you too will see how much light the government parties need in order to get a clearer look into the future. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, Mr Klubobmann Khol has come to me now. I would have liked to say to him that I have already found it very remarkable, as he has started here today on the budget. We have a budget, he said proudly, we have a budget in time, he said proudly. Well, I'm right about him. We got it, we got it in time. Only: I cannot imagine alternatives to this, and at least this budget does not provide a basis for celebration. We don't find any innovations, we don't find any structural reforms. It is a mere continuation of posts. We don't have a future orientation. In any case, imagination and creativity leave me. If Mr Khol – perhaps he can be executed – here still says that we have significantly more employees and, above all, women – I mean, if Mr Klubobmann Khol talks about women, it will always be problematic anyway – then I must say that he seems to have lost sight of one thing: the current statistics and the current figures. As a Tyrolean, he should know that we have an increase in female unemployment of 32.7% there, that we have 9 times the increase in women's unemployment throughout Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: That's not true! Where?]] This can be read, that is no problem at all. Mr Feurstein, read how you are and you should not be bothered. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: I don't make any actual correction!]] Do this, please! The unemployment rate of Tyrolean women increased by 32.7 percent compared to the previous year, by 7.2 percent across Germany, by 0.9 percent.... [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: Germany!]] I have differentiated, Mr Feurstein. Listen, you don't need to read it! 7.2 percent nationally for women, 0.9% for men. I leave it to you to multiply it to see how much more women's unemployment is increasing. Then the AMS, for example in Tyrol, brags that it would have qualified 350 new entrants during the last ten years. That's 35 a year, and that's ridiculous! We can still praise the AMS so much here, fact is: The funds are being robbed, the pension payments are being paid, and we know that this patched apprenticeship action has shifted funds from the Federal Government which are missing here. But regardless of that, we spend the least on active labour market promotion. In any case, we are quite in the direction of the final light position in the OECD comparison, and I regret that from the labour market point of view of the labour market as a whole. If we are talking about women's policy here, we simply need to know that qualification can be seen as a key in the area of labour market policy as a whole. But the AMS is staring for women's projects due to the redeployment of funds for the "teaching reform" – under quotation marks –, the Minister of Education is constantly promoting 99 points on the promotion of girls and women and does not implement them, and this, although we are shown to have a rate of discrimination in the field of education among women, i.e., the distance between men and women is highest in OECD comparison in Austria. And I think this is a particularly unfortunate situation. Ladies and gentlemen! Neither in this budget nor in the national employment plan can I find approaches that would really be against this. I can't find any means either. In my opinion, the budget remains completely nebulous. If we – including the government parties – always hear as great a word as it is important for women to reconcile care work with the profession, I will tell you: These 600 million schillings, so to speak, are presented as a sign of government for a missing policy in the past, are a drop on the hot stone. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Already 1,500 care places have been created!]] Yeah, and we're missing 140,000. This time I leave the division – in the case of Division – to you. How many years will we still need to have comprehensive public childcare facilities? Can the women wait so long? Approaches to promote private initiatives, approaches towards incentives for establishments for the establishment of farm kindergartens have not only not come from this government, but also have been rejected by the Liberals. I really wonder what the importance of women's policy as a whole is in this government. I sometimes wonder what the minister has in the SPÖ. For that I do not expect anything in women's affairs on the ÖVP side is not a secret, but the SPÖ should also consider how far it can strengthen its back here. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Unfortunately, Mr Commissioner is not here anymore, but Mrs Tichy-Schreder, who is also a very important interlocutor for me when it comes to apprenticeship reform. But if As a man of the Chamber of Commerce here, Mr. Colleague stupidly uses the medals we win with the young people at professional Olympics as a standard for the quality of apprenticeship training, I ask myself: How far has the Chamber of Commerce gone from the apprentices? The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy should know exactly how this training takes place on the part of professional olives. I've been involved in it myself. This is done by committed persons without payment, so that economic officials can perform at the various events, at the Olympics and, so to speak, can be celebrated as those that have contributed to this training success. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Gschahlhuber!]] [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Tichy-Schreider: That's not true!]] Mrs. Tichy-Schreder! I took care of an Olympic winner who won a gold medal in Osaka. I know. There was no big deal from the Chamber of Commerce. The Chamber of Workers... [[Abg. Tichy-Schreider: What?- Oh, my God!]] No big deal came from the Chamber of Commerce for the training of Wolfgang Angyal! Read it, I was there. The Chamber of Labour has gladly cofinanced. The coach who made this for free was not allowed to go to Osaka, but the high range of the Chamber of Commerce was represented there. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: Who is the "high Riege"?]] [[Abg. May. Peter: That's it!]] It is also important to me to say: Gold medals in professional olympiads do not reflect the standard of our apprenticeship training. I think apprenticeship training is important, you know, but I think it should be discussed here in a serious way. Mr President, the opposition has boldly accused us of unscrupulous argumentation. For me, this is unscrupulous of how the government parties deal with the prospects for the future of young people! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Mrs. Tichy-Schreder! You cannot tell me that it is what the economy and the entrepreneurs want, what has now been negotiated to ensure the employment of young people in the dual education system. That can't be it, and that also contradicts all the demands of the economy. There is no longer a word to hear from a reduction of the overregulations in the vocational training law, here there is no more word in the field of child and youth employment law, here is not a single approach to the quality of education as a whole. The quality of training – as I am now making a loophole to the FPÖ, even if Mr Schreiner is no longer there – seems to be no concern for the government parties or the FPÖ. I have to say that. We talk about "only" – under quotation marks – financial discharges from entrepreneurs. We are also in favour of this, but we want to do so in a way that will also make structural reforms possible, that the quality of training can also be improved, that we can gain more space in the school sector in order to be able to offer essential additional content in order to meet the demands of the economy as well. The future requires the future worker, the future employee, to have other qualifications. We need improved skills in the general field, improved cultural techniques. We need the provision of transferable professional qualifications in order to ensure mobility at work. Specialization, practical training is to be carried out in operation. This is also a very important concern to me. I don't think there's a training of vocational training. There's one point of view. I think this is missing, and I think it is once again a very, very cost-intensive delay in the problem of apprenticeship training, which we will then fall to the head a year later, and it will fall on our head anyway even today. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Now I have to turn to the FPÖ, which the apprentice always accepts. [[Abg. Böhacker: How many apprentices do you have in your company?]] I would simply like to see this subject in its complexity and not to make populist statements and to speak to everyone after the mouth by demanding, on the one hand, a reduction in the cost of tax deductibility, on the other hand, an annual increase in the compensation of apprentices, which in many areas are not low with God. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: Exactly!]] My daughter gets 8 500 S net in the third year, even if she is in the vocational school! [[Abg. Blünegger: Should the apprentices work for an alms?]] She doesn't need any more. That's so simple! While she is in school, she has the status of a student. [[Abg. Böhacker: You can afford this!]] Education policy must not be mixed with social policy. The needy have to get social support, a student aid, a travel aid, but education policy cannot address shortcomings in social policy. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: Yes, yes!]] Let me tell you something else: Please point out to your clubman that the polytechnic course has already been renamed to "polytechnic school". He didn't know. Now, to rename him again... [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: What does it mean to be baptized? He's got a new headline!]] His proposal was: Let us name the polytechnic course as a basic vocational training course. Rename – nothing has been done with that. That's where we need... [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: This is not an argument! That's just a semantic change!]] I can't do anything for what your clubman calls for, who makes only populist statements and never deals with the subject matter. [[Abg. Böhacker: Mrs Colleague! Tell me how many apprentices you have in your company!]] If the FPÖ now demands tax deductibility – I hope you do not go that far and the I hope that you will not want to do so – if your clubman here asks for an extension of education, which of course also has to do with an extension of the schooling period, then he will compensate from the cost side for the profit from tax deductibility due to the fact that the apprentices are longer in the vocational school and that the entrepreneur will continue to pay compensation for this. [[Interlocutory call to the liberals]] Let's finally take a proper step! We decouple school and business training! Then we have every necessary flexibility to make this good dual training system a successful one again. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Because I've just got a few minutes left, I'd like to say something about the teaching budget. Mr Haselsteiner! I hate to disagree with you in particular, but you said today that it would be a pleasure for us to add 3.4 billion in the field of education. [[Rejoicing at SPÖ and ÖVP]] This was also mentioned in Mr Finanzminister's budgetary speech, and this would be gratifying and desirable if this would result in an improvement in the quality of our schools if schools were to receive additional units of value if we were to expand the offer of electoral goods again if we could offer more free will to address the individual skills of our young people in order to give schools the opportunity to develop a profile if, through these grants to the teaching budget, the key to lifelong learning would be fulfilled if there were any new initiatives to prepare our students for the new challenges of the future. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: Yes, you must not forget that!]] Unfortunately, this is not the case. An increase of 3.2 billion schilling is not available to improve quality, but only to meet the prognosis that an IHS study has already produced in 1994, namely that the cost of staffing at schools will be exploded without a single teacher being additionally recruited. The most negative of the calculated variants has already been exceeded. This IHS study was prepared on behalf of the Ministry of Education, so you should already know about it. This most negative of the forecasts was exceeded despite the savings packages I and II, which were anti-education and have worsened the educational conditions in the Austrian schools. Please don't tell me anything about pedagogical conditions, because if you're going to spend 36 students in a class, then the pedagogy just has to stay on the track! That's a fact. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. May. Mühlbachler: What should you do?]] What are these 3.2 billion schillings used for? – They are used to cover the biennial jumps in an anti-performance remuneration scheme: without quality improvement, simply in the sense of automatic. In this respect, there is nothing from the government, such as: The abolition of this anti-performance remuneration scheme, the abolition of Pragmatisation, the requirement for performance, the provision of incentives for performance. [[Abg. May. Mühlbachler: What do you want to do? Say it! Tell me how you'd do it!]] This led exactly to the current situation in schools: Teachers are taken away from privileges, they are unannounceable, but they cancel inwardly – and this must be done by the young people. What is the teacher union doing in the field of higher and middle schools? What's going on? – Call for the recruitment of all projects, call for the recruitment of school events and so on. Your Minister of Education is already under pressure, and I hope that she will come up with a performance-promoting system to prevent a disaster in this respect – I am telling you quite honestly. What are these 3.2 billion schillings needed for? – There are 250 million schilling in addition to the Ministry of Education. As skills are handed over to schools in the case of increased autonomy, more administration and 50 million schilling are needed in addition for secondary school authorities. 4 billion schillings are spent only for school administration, so that this party propaganda system, this personnel policy as a power policy can be properly "efficient" and "targeted". [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl.]] [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Such a fool!]] What are these 3.2 billion still needed for? – The funds for additional services, which were lowered in the last budget – in the hope of being able to employ unemployed young teachers – have been increased to the level of the previous year, and I believe that this is also a kind of employment policy: Overtime benefits, over-proportional median income for the pragmatized German teachers – but 10,000 young teachers without employment stay on the streets! Ladies and gentlemen! If this is to be a budget for the future, if it is to signal or guide innovation in some form, then I am really worried about the young people in Austria. If the speakers of the government parties praise the budget, I believe that this is a form of refusal of reality! Mr Edlinger, Minister of Finance! You need a few more candles, because I think you need a clearer look to be able to deal with these problems. [[Abg. Tichy Schreiter: This is a celebration candle, not a search candle!]] But I would like to give the Minister of Finance a very strong flashlight if it were useful.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e14786	Mrs Mag. Kammerlander. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e14807	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Unfortunately, the discussions of the general debate on the budget as a result of the urgent request or the deadline request have fallen somewhat asleep, although I think these would be important. At any rate, we Greens have undertaken to put this debate under the heading 'Employment policy' today. I think that this is one of the most pressing issues in relation to the budget, not only because of your long-standing promises made by the Federal Government, not only because of the long announcement of the National Employment Plan that we have received this afternoon, but because, above all, the unemployment figures give us dramatic signals that this is one of the most burning issues – and unfortunately will also be in the future. This has already been referred to by some of the previous speakers. The unemployment rate is 7.9 percent, which is 240 000 people without employment, with a particularly significant impact on women's unemployment, because, as we can see from newspaper reports, and this seems to come out of your division, mothers return to work after the karenz "opportunity". – That says a lot about the Federal Government’s attitude if you did not expect it, even though you – I can only keep it to you again and again – have said over the past few years, obviously only as a lip commitment, that of course, the return to the workplace should not only be possible and guaranteed, but all possible assistance should be guaranteed. It has also been said that 140 000 places are still missing in childcare facilities. The 600 million schilling, which the federal government has provided so far, has created about 18,000 childcare places. This pace – and my previous speaker has already pointed out – leaves one to go straight away in view of the unemployment rate, the number of women without employment, the impossibility for women to accept jobs, because child care places are not available. It is only logical and clear that there is a shear that is getting bigger and bigger instead of smaller. They all probably have received letters like we did some time ago from the various institutions, from socio-economic companies and women's advisory bodies, in which 13 questions were addressed to Mrs Hostasch. They are probably just as much as we have seen from the newspaper reports that the AMS can no longer promote any further projects and support initiatives. And we also know why: because – and this has already been said today – for two years between 7 and 8 billion schilling annually – this year it will be 8 billion – to pension insurance. With these 8 billion schillings there are not too big a jump to make, but they are very missing. Other resources would be necessary. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] I was surprised when I took a look at this National Employment Programme. We must link this programme with the budget and all of that. In part, it has already been said that Austria is in the final analysis of measures in relation to active labour market policies. Considering all these proposals for the National Employment Programme in this context, one wonders: They propose all kinds of measures here, training that are useful and good: Re-entry measures, qualification measures, special programmes for long-term unemployed, for young people and for qualifications for disabled people. You propose this whole range, a range that has been available for years, but which has been restricted, even impossible, by your savings measures, which had to be reduced, with the AMS dramatically, dramatically affecting socio-economic enterprises, saving, reducing, refusing courses, including those already announced. I could bring you a whole map of letters, which we have in the last two, three years of the various socio-economic enterprises, of women's advisory bodies, of various associations, which have not only made a name for themselves in the fields of qualification measures, of further training measures, but have really worked very successfully. All these facilities had to reduce their actions. And I'm asking what's happening now. What happens in the specific case of a Styrian socio-economic enterprise, which has a very high reintegration rate, namely 56 percent – by disabled people in the rest –? But it doesn't matter which population group. That is why I would like to speak later. 56 percent is therefore the reintegration rate, but according to the requirements of the AMS, they have already had to save because the funds have not been increased, but have even been reduced. And now, in March 1998, they get the AMS order, another 20 percent – that's 1.8 million schilling for this company! – save. In other words, they have to take action which they have already taken in January that they have to take back courses they have set in January, because they cannot pay them because they are not feasible – and this is precisely what you propose in the employment programme and announce here. Ladies and gentlemen! You have done the following in recent years – I have told you this before and can only repeat it now –: They have set up special measures for long-term unemployed four or five years ago, followed by measures for women – for re-entry women, for qualification measures, for their own programmes. They have also followed measures and their own programmes for disabled people. And now come – and that is right! – measures for unemployed young people and apprentices. This is true because there are many groups of people suffering from the developments of neoliberalism, including the savings of past years. What have you done in recent years? – You played one population against the other! They have written letters last year on the part of the AMS to all the institutions which have offered training measures, training measures in the field of women's counselling, that there is now a need to be saved because there will be specific measures for unemployed young people and apprentices. So you played out a population group against the others, and you played out exactly those groups of people who have nothing at all: who have no work on the street that suffers! However, it has never come to your mind, perhaps to compare those groups of people with one another – I deliberately do not say: play out – who have something or nothing! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And you're continuing this now. This employment programme is so unclear and so unclear that I ask myself: How will you finance this, Minister of Finance? How to become Do you finance this employment programme? If this is to be decided in about a month, will you write letters of content to all socio-economic establishments that they will now be able to continue their programme in an unbiased manner, as they actually intended? Will you write letters to those who have already given up saying: Get in again!Unknown term type: "%s".? Who then sets out these measures? – There has been a very good tradition: For this there are facilities that are qualified. These can also be checked: You have high return rates! You will probably use these facilities, just as it has now happened: on the review, control and evaluation of the AMS. All these facilities will now receive a letter: Hold back, with the savings measures, now we have a National Employment Programme, which presupposes these goals and measures – and that is what we will do now!Unknown term type: "%s".? Or how will you do that? Have you perhaps submitted a programme which will not be included in the budget? Or where does this find its rainfall? Is there now an increase in active labour market resources? Where does that say, where are they to be found, and how will you finance all this? They set up this employment programme by 2002. However, it will take place in December 1998, while Austria's Presidency, so to speak, the first review conference on this National Employment Programme. What's going to be You're going to put it there? The dramatic and drastic savings you've ordered over the AMS? What's going on? Do you then submit for review? – There will be little to show, and there will be little to offer – unless you suddenly turn over the money in this area over the budget, so to speak. But that won't work, we know! This has already been discussed in detail today. Not only do other institutions already doubt, like the Monetary Fund, but also others, that you will be able to keep those measures that will be imposed on you with the euro, which doubt whether they are enough, just as our budgets have been designed, as they are now becoming increasingly clear that these budgets are being kept to a large extent with budget tricks. At the same time, however, you are proclaiming a National Employment Programme. What irritates me so much is the following: They make many people hope. If this is the case in the newspaper – as is the case in tomorrow’s editions – many people are entitled to hope – people who have been unemployed for a long time, who have no opportunities to do so. In any event, I dare – knowing what you have done in recent years – to doubt whether this National Employment Programme will change so much. I could read to you a lot. I've done a lot of work, things I've noticed when I've been flying. But I think we will discuss this National Employment Programme separately. However, we cannot discuss this if we do not keep the budget figures in this context unless we look at the budget target you mentioned here in your speech, and if we do not also consider those budgetary targets that Austria will have to meet in the framework of the European Union over the next five years. We can only discuss this employment programme in this context. I doubt that it will keep what it promises. In my opinion, it would be one of the first measures to give the AMS at least the money that belongs to the AMS, which was intended for the AMS, i.e. it would not be for pension insurance this year. They do not miss out on a genuine structural reform in the field of pension insurance. Don't think you can get yourself through this pension reform with small reförmies, pumped money from other areas. This is not a reform as long as it does not really go to the structure, to the basic basis that is actually questionable. Then it would not be necessary – that works and studies show – to get money from there or from there, to serve once out of this and once out of that pot, always at the expense of those who have nothing at all! In every speech in this budget debate, I will write to you in the main book that you are constantly playing against each other those people who have nothing at all, in any case, in which there is nothing to get, that you are serving exactly from those pots, by taking away those people who have at all as good as nothing. You do that instead of helping these people!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e14922	Mr Eder is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e14943	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! When the first reading of the 1998 budget was carried out here in the house about half a year ago, the opposition also opposed the government's great scepticism – as is the case again today. Part of the opposition also seeks to continue its strategy of consistent uncertainty to the Austrian population. We have now been able to see this very clearly in the speeches made by my previous speaker: There is nothing to be said about the fact that over the last three decades, Austria has experienced a development that is almost unique internationally and that it has envied us with countless countries in terms of prosperity, standard of living and narrowness of the social system. Of course, the opposition has also been pushed aside by the fact that the path of budgetary consolidation has been excellent for a number of years now. In addition, the latest economic data show that the overall demand increase I was addressing six months ago – despite the consolidation of the budget – has occurred. The positive fiscal effect projected by economic experts has thus occurred – despite the unidentified opposition. Ladies and gentlemen! All important economic data in Austria are currently showing further improvement in the economic situation. Our country is not only one of the most price-stable countries in the European Union, but also the interest rates have commuted at the lowest level, thus favouring investment. This is also confirmed in the recent economic survey of the Industrial Union. It is also particularly important in international competition that the unit labour cost position has improved significantly vis-à-vis the main trading partners. The property sector – without the construction industry – expanded by almost 5 percent. This is a value, ladies and gentlemen, which could most recently be recorded in the 1989 high-economy phase. There is no doubt that consideration must be given to the issue of additional wage costs in respect of relief. However, I would like to write the above-mentioned fact to all those in the parent book who are always sorry about incidental costs, without putting the total cost into the calculation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gaugg.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A wage-by-cost discussion with the aim of social reduction will certainly not be conducted by us! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It will not be conducted, in particular, because the trade unions, with their informed and responsible wage policy, are responsible for these successes. And even in view of the fact that the profits of capital companies have increased by more than 100 per cent over the last ten years, while their tax revenue has only increased by about one fifth over the same period, there is no question for us of a discussion on additional wage costs with the aim of social reduction. Ladies and gentlemen! The construction industry, which is a particularly important area in terms of employment and domestic value added, was also easy to recover in 1997. Real growth was at least around 3 percent, and the government, with its budget creation in this area in particular, has set important impulses, although this has been disputed by the opposition. [[Abg. Böhacker: Where are impulses set? Please call numbers and facts!]] We will still have enough opportunity in the special debate to talk about the facts and figures on the individual budget chapters, that is, also on the chapter Building! [[Abg. Böhacker: Agreed!]] Ladies and gentlemen! In total, the German Federal Government's 1999 construction investment demand – now I call you a few percentages, Mr Böhacker – is increasing by 15.5 percent. Compared to 1997, this means an increase of 42.5% or 10.3 billion schilling. [[Abg. Gaugg: 1996 was 20 billion!]] – The above figures show the high level of responsibility of the Federal Government towards this sector, especially as infrastructure is also an important location advantage in international globalised competition. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Despite this gratifying development of economic data in our country, borne by the responsible budgetary policy, it should not be ignored that the labour market has changed significantly over the last few decades. Of course, the times when higher economic growth automatically led to declining unemployment rates are over. This awareness forces a wide range of measures, particularly at national but also at European level. The path of a highly developed economy from the secondary to the tertiary sector is logical. [[Abg. Gaugg: I haven't heard such a pot for a long time!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The responsible budgetary and fiscal policy of the Federal Government, in particular the Minister of Finance, who has done excellent work with the staff of his department, will also ensure an excellent international position in the coming years, which seeks to achieve stability and strength of its own and thus plays a particularly important role in the European process of change. [[Abg. Gaugg: Nowotny should have written the speech to you!]] This active cooperation in Europe is the only opportunity for our country to continue to be successful. Whoever believes to have to act with a bird-strout policy or, even worse, with uncertainty and the gnawing of fear and envy, is truly doing a bad job for our people. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Gaugg.]] Mr Gaugg! I understand: You too would like to give such a structured speech here from the speaker's desk! - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e15058	The next speaker is Mr Schwarzenberger. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e15079	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Government continues with the 1999 budget the clear consolidation course, which – well noticed! – was forced by the People's Party by the 1995 National Council election. [[Abg. Böhacker: Look here!]] The net deficit is expected to be lower for the first time in 1999 than economic growth. This will also result in a fall in the percentage of total debt against gross domestic product. Nevertheless, benefits, especially for families, could be improved with a family tax reform. Families will receive more for the first two children in 1999 per child by 3 000 S and from 2000 per child by 6 000 S for the first two children, for three children – three children, for example, the average number of children in the rural family – it will already be 22 800 S if the monthly income is below the maximum contribution basis, and that is the case for most of the families concerned. 22 800 S are at least a full monthly income in addition! In addition, some further improvements have been made in the agricultural sector. We'll be 1st. In July of this year, a health certificate system is also given, as is the custom of the local health insurance fund: In the future, 20 percent of self retention will be charged with 50 s per health certificate. The fictitious exodus is also reduced by another step, from 35 percent to 30 percent, which will at least mean more than 250 million schilling for the rural minimum pensioners in the coming year. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: That was a "noise" applause!]] In addition, as early as this year, however, maternity aid could be improved by 20 percent compared with 1997. The Federal Government is also committed to a powerful, comprehensive agriculture and forestry. In order to meet this objective, a sufficient amount of funding is provided for in the agricultural and forestry budget. In the 1999 budget, permanent direct payments are estimated at the same level as in 1998. The next package of the Europe Agreement will begin in 1999. It has already succeeded in establishing the agreement with the countries for another 40 billion schilling for the next four years, in relation to 60 percent federal funds to 40 percent national funds. Farmers can therefore safely expect direct payments to be made to them in the next few years. Federal Minister! However, it is still not satisfactory to solve the question of VAT rate adjustment. It is known that EU accession has reduced product revenues for farmers by about 25 percent, i.e. by 25 percent less VAT revenue, while at the same time investment in agriculture – which Professor Schneider has also shown in his press conference today – has significantly increased since EU accession. In 1997, they were 20 percent higher than in 1996, and this investment boom continues because farmers want to face the new competitive conditions. However, the result is that they pay much more in advance tax than in VAT for the sale of their products. If this question is not resolved soon, we are forced to advise all farmers to resort to the tax system. However, this will cost the Minister of Finance by 1.7 billion schilling, and in addition 200 000 additional tax rulings will be reviewed and processed. Germany also increased by 1. This year's VAT is fully applicable to farmers. We therefore need urgent action on this issue, Mr Finance Minister, and I hope that this question will be resolved by the next budget or by the year 1999. We have a legal claim on that. Otherwise, as has been said, we will be forced to carry out VAT declarations everywhere. We already advise farmers, if they make greater investments, to proceed to rule taxation, because it simply cannot be assumed that we have 1.7 billion schilling – this sum is not what I have – but instead, Professor Schneider of the Economic Research Institute, that is, from a really neutral point of view, has renounced. That is why we need to regulate this over the next few months.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e15136	Mr Böhacker is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 7 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e15157	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! As not to be expected, most speakers from the government parties have limited themselves to criticizing the opposition: They have accused their inactivity, ignorance, false forecasts et cetera. [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: Right!]] Mr Höchtl! To give the truth the honor, let us briefly go back: What has this Federal Government promised the Austrian citizen and taxpayer in connection with the tax packages and budget consolidation? – revenue increases by one third by closing tax loopholes and spending savings by two thirds! [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: But it has been consolidated!]] We liberals have called this prognosis into question and have said that this will not happen. Today, Mr Höchtl, your clubman had to admit that the budget was not consolidated by a third by means of revenue increases but is much higher! Experts speak of a reverse relationship. Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, you have broken this promise that you have given to the Austrian citizen and taxpayer! That is why, Mr Höchtl, there is absolutely no such thing as jubilation. Due to the fact mentioned, your jubilation messages are maximum macularity. Federal Minister! The business base for the budget recovery and fiscal consolidation announced by you has changed significantly. You would have had the opportunity to go into history as Minister of Rehabilitation, but in Austria you will be regarded as a tax increase minister! What has this Federal Government promised the Austrian citizen and taxpayer to swallow the bitter pill of the tax packages? – Less unemployed, more jobs! In this context, however, we liberals have also been able to predict that – regrettably! – will not be the case. And how does reality look now? – Unemployment rates are rising and rising – despite the fact that around a quarter of a million unemployed and willing to work were sent to early retirement, re-training courses are taking place without future prospects, and more so. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Feurstein.]] Mr Feurstein! These figures are confirmed by the AMS, and in turn they confirm the criticism of our liberals. Federal Minister! This 1999 budget can be headlined with the title: Nothing new from the Ministry of Finance. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: The numbers of employees are increasing constantly!]] They have raised the "creative accounting" for perfection; there is just about a fireworks of budget beauty: This 1999 budget represents an unimaginable continuation of past budgets, cash of every creativity, bar of any future orientation and bar of any innovation. Federal Minister! Nevertheless, I agree with you, because I have done this experience in the meantime, you will succeed in keeping the budget deficit nominally thanks to various budget tricks and through "creative accounting". And if it really actually burns or gets tight, then you'll be rescheduling the clearance decisions, then you'll suspend the loss premiums, then you'll keep the advance payment supplements longer and much more. And the bill will pay again the taxpayers! Once again, the taxpayer, who already has to pay around 147 billion schillings this year, will pay more than three years ago. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The number has already been mentioned: 26 000 S per adult citizen. And despite this surplus revenue of 147 billion schilling, net 107 billion, for the federal government, this budget still has a deficit of 70 billion for 1999. This proves that this Federal Government is not in a position to renovate the Austrian federal budget in a sustainable and successful way! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! This unfortunate tax policy will only allow the budget deficit to be met by 2.6% of GDP. Its permanent handling in the taxpayers' pocket, however, leads to an increasing number of citizens having tax frustration and, unfortunately, increasingly slipping into the grey zone of taxation. I have heard with interest your statements on tax reform in the budget speech. You said: We are trying primarily to ensure that the taxes due to the State actually originate. - Now just! Was it not in the past, for example, that tax revenues granted to the State were actually lifted? You said: We will focus our auditing capacities on VAT verifications. We agree, Minister of State, if you are pursuing the professional tax fraud! However, these special VAT audits must not lead, Mr Federal Minister, to the fact that this – in this case I address you directly! – Tax repayments are to be carried out massively over weeks, months and years! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] To conclude, I would like to give you the following example: A German company has a balance of 14 million Schilling from pre-tax payments at the Graz Financial Office, partly returning to the year 1996. This act was examined at the end of 1997, the examination was completed in December, and a few days ago 4 million schillings were paid back by these 14 million schillings. However, 10 million remain with the Financial Office. It is unbearable for the Austrian State to get a senseless credit from the honest taxpayer! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Minister! There is a real need for action in this regard! This also concerns the small and medium-sized economy: Companies must wait weeks and months for the repayment of pre-tax contributions because you have either given instructions that are slowly repaid or do not have the corresponding audit capacity. Federal Minister! It's unbearable!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e15254	Mrs Dr. Moser is also speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e15276	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Truthfulness, seriality, cleanliness and correctness: With these words, Mr Minister, you today characterised your own budget. – Preserving, unimaginative, disrespectful: These are the attributes with which the green opposition of this budget is available in the main tenor. Because this so-called true and serious budget cements the status quo, and this cementing of the present conditions and maintaining the old structures, in short: this static budget policy, lies across to the changes within the economy and society. And if your budget policy remains static and you budget status quo, you will not meet the social and economic challenges you face! Mr Novotny mentioned figures. He said: 3 per cent growth is expected and employment is expected to increase by 1 per cent – in his opinion, 30 000 people. – However, your status quo policy does not bring down unemployment, and that is the crux of this budget. There is something lazy, there is a miscontrol, and this miscontrol must have an end! That's why I represent the thesis: This budget is based on fragile pillars and is based on an anti-employment tax structure! There is therefore a high level of taxation of labour force and therefore high additional labour costs. You yourself have regretted this and have said that you will be looking for appropriate prospects in the tax reform 2000. At present, however, tax shares in the labour factor continue to rise and low energy taxes, low capital income taxes and no wealth tax are found on the negative side. In these aspects of mismanagement, only such a budget can be drawn up, and only one such – that is, experts from various universities – can result in a dramatic downturn, which is even condemned by the EU Commission. In a study entitled "Structures of the taxation systems of the EU 1970 – 1995", one can read: "The share of taxes on labour rose from 14.5 percent of GDP in 1970 to 21.4 percent in 1995. On the other hand, taxes on capital have been reduced by 10 percent over the last 15 years. Internal Market Commissioner Mario Monti sees this disparity of developments in the tax sector and in this overload of the labour factor cause 4 percent of increased unemployment." – This is said in the EU, where you are orientation, that is what the EU Commission says, which, on the other hand, focuses on the convergence criteria, so to speak, as "golden calf". – Nevertheless, the EU is well prepared to reform and is already making the latte for tax reform in 2000. You yourself have said that for you a perspective is the relief of the factor work. How urgent this is, show graphics that I would like to present briefly If you compare the development of labour and energy prices in Austria from 1960 to 1997, then you can see that the curve which indicates the labour price rises steeply, which means that labour costs have increased by 20 times since 1960, while the curve or line which represents energy prices only increases slightly, since today energy prices are only 3.7 times as high as 1960. [[The speaker shows a curve diagram entitled "Index of the nominal development of labour and energy prices in Austria since 1960"]] In this context, there is a disparity, and our employment policy suffers from this scarcity. That is why we should start on this point. Then you have to control your budget policy differently. It would be essential for you to realize at last the opportunity to control or re-route differently by choosing a different form of burden and not using the labour force for filling the state budget. It is not your job to preserve structures, but you need to put a new control model on your feet. There are enough proposals to this effect – I just need to draw on your answers – and above all there are studies in the Austrian field. I have a study by the Institute of Economics of the University of Graz on the Toronto Technology Programme in front of me – one does not necessarily need to read tax models of the Greens, one can also use the answers from Mr Farnleitner – and in this study it says: "In order to activate these investment activities for the Toronto Technology Programme, public funding of 1.44 billion schilling is planned each year." This amount is broken down into "830 million Schilling's share of the country's energy tax, 250 million environmental funding of the federal government and 360 million schilling re-transitions of the existing budget". And it is predicted that in this way after a year – you read and marvel! – 12 000 new jobs would be created. You read: "In total, net revenue from public budgets in all the years in which this technology programme – with the Toronto objective – is to be "effective, far more than the annual projected 1.44 billion schilling for public incentive funding, as the increased economic activity means that additional revenue from public taxes is between 8 and 12 billion schilling annually." Mr Finanzminister! I strongly recommend that you apply this Toronto programme, because its application would not only be very effective in budgetary terms, but would also be highly necessary and ecologically mandatory in terms of labour market policy. I would also like to point out that several German institutions, whether the Wuppertal Institute or the German Institute for Economic Research, have repeatedly pointed out that environmental management, i.e. taxation of energy use, would definitely bring jobs. For Germany, 300 000 to 400 000 additional workers are forecast, and an economist from Osnabrück has even foreseen 1.5 million additional jobs for Germany. If If you read the Greens' tax programme, you can see that 50 000 to 70 000 additional jobs have been identified in this context in Austria. This would be a possibility, and so it would also be proposed by managers, for example of AEG telefunks, who could be used to reorganise businesses by means of the technology offensive that would trigger this tax model. Because this technology offensive could certainly create not only more work, but also a production boost, a reorientation and a restructuring in the right direction, namely towards a sustainable society. Take this as an opportunity to put the rails in the direction of an eco-tax which is to become reality by the year 2000 at the latest, namely a real eco-tax, which massively relieves the labour force, which has at least 130 billion schilling as foreseen in our programme – and is not as low as in the budget estimates of the past years, when you used the higher taxation of energy in particular to stop holes in the budget. We need a massive relief action for additional wage costs, at the same time we need an eco-bonus for the socially disadvantaged and also for every Austrian and every Austrian, and above all we need a job creation programme. Such a budget policy not only relieves the environment, but can increase the number of employees and be socially weak, and in the final effect innovation and restructuring of the Austrian economy would be possible. However, your budget does not offer all of this. They represent these aspects only as perspectives for the year 2000, and I am forced, in this context, to formulate my final sentence in the terminology of Mr. Klubobmann of the ÖVP: This budget is not worth a fair!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e15360	Mrs Dr Mertel is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e15381	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! With the present 1999 budget, there is no doubt that a first step towards quantum leap in the promotion of families will be taken. Mrs Moser, I recommend what you have recommended to the Minister for Finance: As a reality, a particular focus in the 1999 budget is the reform of family support, a family support aimed at supporting families more financially than it has been in the past. In this context, I recall the principles that were important for the Social Democrats in the reform of family support: We have said that we need a constitutional solution, particularly in the interests of young families and the weaker families. There must be no tax gifts, especially for the best-earners, the conversion of family support must not lead to an increase in the planned budget deficit, the path of fiscal consolidation must be continued, and, indeed, there must be no increase in taxes, nor should there be an increase in taxes on children. These criteria and objectives mentioned by the SPÖ were welcomed. I would particularly like to stress that a significant social component could be installed for the first time in the area of family support – and this was already in the first stage of the 1999 budget. For example, the amount of child support – i.e. the amount of child replacement and family allowance – will be more than 250 S for all families per child and month next year. However, for poorer multiple-child families there are... [[Abg. Gaugg: Thanks to Austrian courts!]] Courts? – If you have read the Constitutional Court of Justice, Mr Gaugg – it is very laborious – you see that the courts have not prescribed us what we should do and to what extent this has to be done. [[Abg. Gaugg: But you have to do something!]] Read it, then let's talk, and then we can talk Carinthian, then only we two understand each other! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There is also a bonus per month for low-income multiple-child families, from the third child 200 p. For single-parents, single-earners and single-earners with low incomes, an increase in the negative tax of 2 000 S to 5 000 S will already take effect every year in 1999. As for the financing of these additional funds, I believe that a reasonable solution has been found. It will be made up of half of the budget and of the FLAF, the family compensation fund. I think we have come a great deal closer to our project to make the social and family benefits of the public sector more socially balanced and effective in this phase of the family package. Lower income families, i.e. families with low to average income, will be relatively more promoted next year than better-earning families. The budget resources and the resources of the Family Control Fund will be concentrated and targeted where they are most urgently needed. It will therefore be more helpful to those who need the aid of the State than others. In our view, as a further focus in the 1999 budget estimate, it should be noted and highlighted – even though this has already been criticised as too low and insignificantly – that 600 million schilling will be made available next year by the federal government for the expansion of childcare facilities. It was 600 million schilling last year, and 600 million schilling will be it in the future. Some 17 000 childcare places have been created for 600 million schilling. I think that should not be put under the table. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have repeatedly stressed that reforming family support should not only take fiscal aspects into account. We have always said that children are not tax evasion posts for us; we did not want to see children reduced to tax evasion posts. We focus on the interests and rights of children. These must be sufficiently taken into account, and this, of course, includes the question of whether there is no right to qualified care outside the family for a child. Finally, it is about such important educational and educational approaches as social learning, the learning of team ability, the development of personality in the Community and much more. We Socialists and Democrats are always concerned about the core question: What about the compatibility of work and family? – This includes the development of infrastructure that we consider to be an essential part of the family support system. This will make it possible for young people and will make it easier for young women to complete both a qualified training and a qualified profession and at the same time fulfil the desire to start a family. We therefore want to know a focus on extending childcare places until the third year of life, as well as on children from the sixth year of life with an afternoon care. Last but not least, we see social democrats and Democrats in it an important impetus for the labour market in terms of women, which will bring new career opportunities in qualified childcare. With the objectives of "More money for the family", "Increased investment to create and safeguard employment", and "Increasing the fight against unemployment", this budget is a key factor in social and social policy.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e15449	Mrs. Dr. Sonja Moser is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 10 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e15471	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Family policy has a very high priority in Austria as an independent area of social policy. This has also found a focus in the budget. Family policy is a real cross-sectional matter: It is closely affected by all social and economic policies and should therefore always be considered in this context. The main focus of the interest of family politicians is to ensure appropriate framework conditions that allow people in their roles as mothers, fathers and children to have together as families the same life and development opportunities as people without family responsibility. Sharing, being solidary, not living egoism is a matter; another thing is to establish what has long been set out in Article 7 of the Federal Constitution. The formation of consciousness for equality and for sharing must be anchored in the minds and hearts. Only from there can you make changes! The place where such social skills are learned are intact families! A group of people from the human realm are always going wrong! Old to play against young or men against women, these are wooden roads if the goal is to be solidarity. After all, the families in our country ensure the necessary continuity of society, ensure that the relationship of generations remains balanced and that our young people grow up in security and with the necessary emotional contribution. The necessary framework conditions include the economic security of families, structural facilitation of the compatibility of family and work life and a social climate that is compatible with family and child-friendly. Especially in the first area, in the economic security of our families, we have made a big step forward by the recently decided tax relief of the families. The reform of family taxation, which will result in families paying less tax in the future – to the fullest extent in the year 2000 – in a total of over 12 billion schillings in the year, is a long-term measure that is all the more satisfying in terms of the financial relief of families. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] 500 S per child per month in conjunction with the multi-child bonus of 400 S per month from the third child is a noticeable economic support, which will permanently relieve especially vulnerable families, single parents, but also middle-class families with several children. Together with the reform of family taxation and the expansion of family transfer systems, other existing instruments of our social state should be forced in the future, such as housing support, the federal family grants and the provision of childcare facilities. This family tax benefit is a clear signal of the future in two ways: The value of intact families, nests and security for future generations is clearly explained by this signal in terms of content and financial terms. Yes to the successful consolidation course, and the reins of saving do not let go! Yes to the social strategy: Without intact families, there is no future for our state. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It should be stressed again that the reform of family taxation is not tax reliefs or any promotions: Rather, discharge in the form of transfer and tax measures is a requirement for fair taxation and family tax compensation. I would also like to remind you once again that it was the ÖVP that was driving forward the implementation of the Constitutional Court's mandate to the tax relief of families with initiative, commitment and consequence, until finally the entire federal government joined. Some people have said that the family tax reform would have led to tax reform in 2000 or 2001 ad acta. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Why do you know that?]] Contaminate: The funds that flow into the families benefit the economy immediately and directly! Another innovation in the family tax compensation concerns the regulation of the school book action. It now leads to the more frequent reuse of school books and thus to a strengthening of the autonomy of schools in the acquisition of teaching resources of their own choice. This will ultimately increase the overall supply of teaching equipment. In the area of school-free travel, a number of things have been in motion during the week of the week. Our youth is being included in the transport associations. It is really not to understand that pensioners... [[Abg. Dr. Karlsson: There were holidays!]] Yes, even in the vacation is worked, imagine that! – It is not to be understood that pensioners, commuters and dogs are in the transport network, but not our children. The mother-child passport bonus, which will be paid for the first time in 1998 to the parents whose children finished their first year of life, is estimated to be over 90 percent of all parents. Unfortunately, God's income limit has been removed, which is not quite understandable in so far as the Bonifcation system is intended to remind all concerned of the fact that their children actually receive the necessary valuable free investigations. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: That's where you voted against your own minister! I can remember that!]] So that's what I'm saying now. Whoever is poorer is stupid and needs the memory of who is richer, he is also wiser and does not need this memory. – The noticeably reduced examination discipline is particularly blatant after the first birthday: It's up to 43 percent! That is why we need to think of something else. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: What is the meaning of the look?]] Because maybe we could do something! [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Do something!]] What we need in order to unite family and working life is the job of developing part-time jobs. Mothers and fathers should also be able to get involved in family work. I would like to quote here again Professor Dr Zulehner: "Become the fatherless family in a motherless society! If the father fails, the child gets too little I-strength, the mother lacks, the children lack the simplest social competence, and we lack children, we become barbarians." With an additional and attractive offer In any case, part-time jobs would reduce the risk of women becoming mothers being banished into their own four walls. This is exactly what the opponents of all family policies are happy to keep us up to date. However, it should be stressed that it is contrary to a modern family policy to give only the impression that women are discriminated against in the workplace and women and families are being played against each other. The economy already plays a very good role in many businesses through business agreements and takes due account to a large extent of parents, especially mothers with smaller children. The economy complains that the simplest basic principles are no longer followed by the apprentices – for example, the rules of courtesy in conversational situations – or that they lack cleanliness and punctuality. But where will this be maintained? In intact families! Where does the economy attract dedicated employees? From intact families! Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, what I would like to say is that, if women really, as shown by two large studies, are ready to stay at home at the time of the socialization phase of their children, at the time when the cerebral brain grows from 23 to 90 percent – yes! – and which includes the time of social learning, particularly support and protect this time, so that this time is not only pension-enhancing but pension-based. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Were you home too?]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: How long?]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e15618	Mr Gaugg is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e15639	Mr President. Federal Minister! My precious ladies Mertel and Moser! If you already consider social, family and social policies in our country to be essential and wish to add to these successes on your party political flags, should I ask you not consider your policy to be a failure if 140 000 childcare places are missing? [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: You can't put that on your flags! That would be amiss!]] Don't consider yourself a failure... [[Call the SPÖ:Who says that?]] This is a statement by Mrs Prammer: There are 140 000 childcare places missing. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Karlsson.]] I'm just quoting woman Family Minister Prammer, you have to read this: There are around 140 000 childcare places missing in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Karlsson: Wrong construction site!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Just read, that's all I want! We don't want to talk about the development of the brain right now. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Karlsson: Wrong construction site!]] Do you not consider yourself to be a failure of 300,000 unemployed people? Do you not consider yourself to be a failure if nearly 20 percent of the population now live on the poverty line in Austria? If you want to talk about social and family policies, if it goes beyond what happens to family support and child support, will it not be taken up by law? At this time, in this socially very difficult time in our country, the Minister of Finance is presenting a budget which he believes he can praise on the green clover and which he seems to think there are no problems at all. Although the deficit is rising by 70 billion schilling – that does not matter! - We have consolidated, you say. But help, Minister of Finance, within the scope of your possibilities for workers, the unemployed, pensioners and all those in need in our country! Don't become the willing figure for Brussels! Because do you know what your budget is? – Your budget is the premature subjugation towards Brussels! [[Abg. Dr. Karlsson: And you're a trade unionist?]] They could afford it financially and monetaryly to bring about reliefs there or there. If it is absolutely necessary and necessary, billions can be released at once, for example for the National Employment Programme. That's why I'm not wondering. Why is it necessary to develop a programme of employment, which seems to exist only on the "island of the Blessed" of Austria and which should be at a zero rate? Or, as I put it, are you merely leaning on the economic research institute's forecasts published in January and saying that 100 000 jobs will be created as a result of the economic economy? – I am going to maintain this assumption for so long as you do not take the counter-proof that you are actually creating additional jobs with additional resources! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They're making headline policy! The first line reads: Budget consolidated, budget over the stage! But the second line already says: The financing of all agreed packages is not yet secured. [[Abg. Marizzi: Mr Gaugg!]] They do budget and financial policy without regard to social losses in our country! The alleged budget renewal... [[Abg. Marizzi: 60 000 jobs come from the economy!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. stupid.]] [[Abg. Marizzi: I just wanted to explain that to him!]] Ungern! Maybe telephonic, but that's not quite harmless with you. [[Abg. Marizzi: 60 000 come from the economy, 40 000 jobs from the programme!]] The Wifo writes 100 000 – to read in its forecast. There is nothing in it from a National Employment Programme, as you are now putting it on stage with hangings and stranglings! Other countries have long done this task for the first time and use second amounts in billions of schilling height. [[Abg. Marizzi: But have far higher unemployment!]] On the other hand, we believe we can make this a zero rate. The fact that the Social Democrats are doing this shows that they cannot expect it. How did the alleged budget renovation in Austria go about? – At the expense of investment – these were almost halved compared with 1996! At the expense of the unemployed – unemployment benefit has been reduced! At the expense of youth – there are fewer training places! At the expense of pensioners – see pension cuts! And finally at the expense of the stability of the labour market! It is also associated with slipping in the international ranking of our economic data. We're falling back everywhere. There will be a wave of founders, Mr. Vice-Chancellor has publicly announced in press conferences. What are we really experiencing? – In the first quarter of 1998, it appears that there are 600 self-employed people less than in the previous year. That's your kind of politics! If the situation is as rosy as you present it, and if all this is so great, I ask: Why Lower You don't have the tax rate at the international level? Why Lower Don't you immediately and beat the payroll tax like that? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If you really had such a great budget, you would surely be able to prefer the urgently needed wage tax reform. But reality looks different. Even your own party colleagues complain of the budget situation, including the director of the labour market service in Austria. He considers the situation to be worrying and says that if he had to implement all that is imposed on him, then an additional 3.7 billion shilling would be necessary each year. - I wonder where the money is going to come from. Where can I find additional resources in the budget for labour market service in the order of 3.7 billion schilling? On the contrary: At the labour market service, you take a raid by collecting 4.9 billion schillings for the pension funds in 1998 and 1999. Where the money is now urgently needed for appropriate employment programmes, take it away. This is your form of politics! I also wonder: Where's the design? Where is the shift from passive funds to active labour market policies? Where in the budget does this become apparent? – It is not apparent from your budget report. Another example: An association for disabled people in Gleisdorf writes that he has to release employees and the infrastructure is at risk due to your budget: "We only need to save 1.8 million schilling for 1998 on labour market service benefits." Where is the signal to the workers in this Republic? – Not even for disabled workers you have money today. That's the reality! You can also have been a financial referent for the longest time in Vienna, and you can do so with all the rhetorical tricks of the Social Democrats, which you learn from the Renner Institute or elsewhere, you can't hide that you're no longer able to shape the budget in such a way that it's human- and workplace-like. [[Abg. Dr. Karlsson: Please, you booksticker! Have a good time!]] I don't want to talk about social matters anymore. Because that's the problem: There is an outpouring of the social situation, as it has never been in this Republic before. On the permanent self-payments that everything had been bad by the year 1995, I would like to say: Dear friends, those finance ministers who have been promoted to the Federal Chancellor are responsible for this! So I can also recommend, Federal Minister for Finance: Make relatively bad budgets, then you may become Federal Chancellor once! It seems to be a prerequisite in Austria for making a bad budget first. Because in 1992 Austria would have fulfilled the convergence criteria without savings packages, without burdens and without pension cuts. Only after that did it start: 1994 was a choice, as was 1995, and there one had to win elections! Today, however, in the speeches up there on the government bank: But no, we are planning everything in the long term! – It is clear that all of your success data are aimed at arriving only after the next election. That they won't come, you know already today. A high level of employment does not help if, among them, "McJobs" are when part-time workers are counted as a full-time worker, when they are short-term jobs and when jobs are needed, as they now appear more and more often. I miss the call of the Austrian Trade Union Confederation in view of the development in trade. There is a new shop in Vienna, in the Mariahilfer Straße, which has been selling for weeks in the newspapers with employment according to need: You will be called within three days – if you have time, you may come if you do not have time, then not. – Woe, that would make an Austrian small or medium-sized business: The cry that would be the result, I look at it! For all these things I can no longer understand when the question of responsibility in this policy arises. All of this is aggravated by the fact that the public sector is taking a massive part in the labour market and in this way is contributing to the fact that older workers are increasingly out of work. For over 55 years old male unemployed, we have to record an increase of 40 percent compared to the previous year. Public service contributes significantly to this. While he carries out tenders in the job market of the Federal Service, he always combines requirements such as these: "The highest age of 30 years", "age of about 30 years", "an age of about 30 years, at least 18"; with "compulsory of 50". Year of life" is a single job, which is probably an alibi treatment. But public service itself should go ahead with a good example. A 40-year-old is also able to provide the service as a speaker at the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. That should be one of your tasks, Minister of State. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Since you are constantly talking about how rosy the situation is, I would like to remind you: Austria was the final indicator in Europe in 1997 in terms of income increases. 1.6% income increases mean the last place in Europe! Germany had 3.7 percent compared to that – I would expect this to happen with us. I do not want to talk about others – like Greece at 7.4 percent – right now. [[Abg. Edler: Do you want Greek conditions?]] Austria is and remains the final light in social policy. I don't understand. The National Employment Action Plan, which you have now adopted, is not worth the paper on which it is written!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e15867	Mrs Hlavac is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e15888	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker made great statements about the failure of social policy, family policy, in all possible areas. I would ask you to look carefully at the budget figures and to look closely at the policies we have been making in our country for a long time. [[Abg. Gaugg: I look at the families and the unemployed, not the budgets!]] We have certainly not failed in the area of family policy, in the field of family support. In Austria there is one of the highest family promotions in all of Europe! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is the second highest within the European Union. More than 200 billion schillings are spent in the broadest sense of the word in the year for family policy. This includes family allowances, schoolbooks, co-insurance contributions and anything that really helps families. I would therefore like to point out that you are saying that nothing is happening in our country for family support. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Gaugg: Little!]] As Mr Mertel and the Federal Minister have already carried out in his budget speech a few weeks ago, family support is a priority of our policy. As early as 1999, there will be increased funding for family support, and as of 2000, even 12 billion schilling will be spent more on family support. I want to... [[Abg. Meisinger: These are just announcements!]] This is not only an announcement, but also a draft law in which this is already clearly expressed. I can assure you that we will adopt these laws! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I also think that 600 million schillings are particularly important for childcare, which are then also decided. For we measure budgetary policy, we measure the budget also in terms of how it affects women, how the figures which represent us have an impact on the concrete lives of women. We do not expect a special budget for a small area in which women's policy is made, but we expect – and this is also done by the Federal Government – that in all areas, whether it be social, health, labour market or education, women will be given the fair share that is due to them. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] As an example, I would like to cite the labour market; he was also given great importance by the Federal Minister for Finance in his budget speech. It has stated that the unemployed must be given a financial basis, new career opportunities and a life perspective. This is to be underlined by a hundred percent. Of course, this applies not only to men but equally to women. For women in particular have special problems in the labour market. Their wages are still lower and the range of professions in which they work is smaller. It is therefore important to promote women in the field of education and training, as well as in re-entry into the profession after a child's break. We will be very careful to ensure that, for example, in the field of labour market services, emphasis is placed on the return of women to work and on the opportunities for women to re-entry, and that a fair proportion of the funds for women, women apprentices and female trainees are used. There are also very specific tasks assigned to the Minister for Women. These are in particular the promotion of women's initiatives, information centres and awareness-raising. Already in 1998, significantly more funds were available for the promotion of women's projects than in previous years. There will also be a further increase in 1999. This increase will primarily benefit intervention agencies, but other initiatives will also benefit from it, such as the daily parent model project "Cinderella". The women's service offices – there are currently 29 in Austria – are not only to be continued but also expanded. Intervention agencies are also planned against violence within the framework of the Federal Government's anti-violence programme. The first three institutions were launched in 1996 in Vienna, Innsbruck and Graz as model projects. They are based on initiatives by the then Minister of Women, Konrad, and they are also to be further extended. The measures taken by the Federal Government against violence – violence in the family, but also violence in society at all – with which more security is to be created, education on the freedom of violence and resolution of conflicts without violence are very important and are therefore welcomed by us. But we also need to fight against organised crime and other forms of crime. Security policy is a central issue for us Social Democrats and Social Democrats. We do not see security policy one-dimensional: It also includes for us social security and the social network, the sense of security in family and society, health care and many others. I would like to address the issue of protection against crime with a few sentences. There is a great deal of security in Austria. Especially Vienna is a city that is one of the safest in the international comparison, and everyone who comes to Vienna, as a tourist or as a professional traveler, enjoys and appreciates this. And this great measure of security must be preserved. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that much more resources are being allocated to the creation and maintenance of safety than in the previous year. For the interior resort this means about half a billion more schilling. The additional funds will be used mainly in the area of personnel expenditure. There will be more staff to ensure border, i.e. to safeguard the EU's external borders, because the safeguarding of external borders, of course, also means greater security within the country. The areas of border control, as well as new techniques in the fight against crime, such as DNA analysis, also play a major role in the matter. Other priorities will be the protection of victims and the donation of the criminal police advisory service. All these are things that we consider very important and very welcome. The figures show how much it is for us to ensure the security of citizens and all the people who live in Austria. Mr Edlinger has spoken of a budget of honesty, and I believe that it is indeed a very realistic proposal for the Federal Republic of Germany, which remains within the framework of the possibility, but which also sets important priorities, such as employment, family promotion and safety. I therefore believe that everyone who considers this budget fairly should also support it.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e15978	Mr Auer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e15996	Mr President. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The budget is the policy put forward in figures and at the same time an opportunity for the government to explain the projects, intentions and aspects of future policy. The opposition has the duty to critically question the projects and objectives and the future programme to be set up with this budget. It is not written, however, that this must be done by means of a one-way road, so that all that the government and the government say is regarded as false and only that which is given by the opposition itself. Ladies and gentlemen! In his budget speech, the Federal Minister for Finance has set out the following sentence: "The budget is therefore more than a numbering work. It is and must be the expression of the political will of those responsible in this state." Ladies and gentlemen! I've been talking about an opportunity for the government. The facts and results of the last three years clearly show that all the figures have kept. [[Abg. Böhacker: Go!]] Mr Böhacker! Just like the 1996 budget, the 1997 budget and the 1998 budget, the 1999 budget will hold, because your current prophecies were just as wrong as the previous ones. In view of the advanced period, I would now like to give you examples. However, I would have a whole collection of statements by speakers from the opposition parties, who also know the Minister of Finance. It was talked about by swindle budgets, the failure to reach the Maastricht criteria, the intensive care station and so on. [[Abg. Wabl: Mr Auer! Stay with the truth!]] Mr Böhacker! They are clearly transcribed and blamed because of these facts! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Her free budget speaker Trattner spoke of the panic saving without regard to losses and without any prospect of success. The fact that he was blaming with this statement must have confirmed himself, ladies and gentlemen. Austria is the first country in the EU to have the stability requirements that can present convergence criteria for a single currency. Finally, I would like to say: This federal budget and the past federal budgets influence many areas, especially the budgets of the federal states, and the Federal Budget has also contributed a great deal to the recovery of so many national budgets. Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal budget, however, also has a significant impact on the budgets of the municipalities. That is why, Mr Federal Minister for Finance, some steps are needed in order to achieve a more just balance and in order to secure finances, especially in the less-favoured regions. For the contracts awarded in these regions benefit them directly. We should therefore try to find a fairer solution in this context. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I cannot at all befriend the idea that, as always discussed, the drinking tax should be abolished and that the basic tax should be increased. I expressly say: With me, there's no basic tax increase! For it is not a matter of punishing and punishing, as it were, the one who works a lot and invests money in land and land or a home, as it were, while the one who, in turn, simply drinks his money, is to be relieved. There can't be that! Take note of this, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: What do you have against the hospitality?]] It is precisely the one who buys a property and builds a house that has already made a substantial contribution as a taxpayer due to the removal of the basic tax exemption. Because everyone pays their basic income tax today, and so you can't increase the basic tax in addition! Ladies and gentlemen! The financial adjustment – which is still said at the end from the point of view of the municipalities – will also have to ensure the minimum allocation of a certain head-rate in the future. I am pleased that in 1998 it will finally be possible to initiate and implement the so-called consultation mechanism in order to make it clear to the future: Whoever buys, he pays!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e16077	Mrs Haller is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 7 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e16098	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! You, Mr Finance Minister, have presented us with a budget with a deficit of 70 billion schilling, rising trend. This budget is based on the fact that small economic growth can be achieved through exports. This and the minimal increase in domestic demand are a ticking time bomb, Federal Minister! You're an expert, you're really competent. You should know that very well! They have thus reached the Maastricht criteria, and above all through the savings package 1, 2 and 3 – but at the price that there have been no structural improvements and that there is a constant increase in pressure on countries and communities which pass on this pressure in the form of increasing charges. And despite the opposite insurance, of course, the ghost of the five-fold increase in the unit value is still at the door. Mr Finanzminister! The small increase in domestic demand is mainly due to the fact that savings packages 1, 2 and 3 ultimately cost each adult Austrian per anno 26 000 s. It is not surprising that there is an increasing number of private bankruptcys that private consumption is declining and family poverty is rising! Mr Finanzminister! You said in your budget report: ==References====External links==* Official website In October 1997 on family taxation, family support had to be reformed." – Mr Finanzminister, you know very well that this is not true! In the knowledge it is only about tax justice. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If Vienna Archbishop Schönborn has recently said: Families do not need alms – that is, not support – but justice, and if he has further said that in the political debate it is obviously only a matter of fulfilling the decision of the constitutional judges as minimal as possible, then I can only give it right from our side. For everyone who has followed the years of debate and the repeated referrals of the Constitutional Court with this § 34 of the Income Tax Act must simply admit that the current Austrian tax laws in the field of family taxation are a single and unfair Pentecost! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Finanzminister! They have now reached a minimum political compromise together with the Minister for Family Affairs, which goes back in the same direction. It can only be pussed again! Her party colleague Mertel made this very clear today. One is not at all willing to stick to the knowledge from the side of the largest government party, but only to bring in social aspects. Mr Finanzminister! You're about to get into the FLAF pot. The knowledge allows this. But: What you have designed now and what you are planning does not even correspond to a long-standing valorization of the family aid! I can only mention your numbers. Overview No 22 on family allowances for 1990 to 1999 from your budget documents shows the increase in family allowances between 1990 and 1999: in 1990 there were 30 billion, in 1994 due to the savings package, 38 billion, but in 1999, despite the planned increase, there will be only 34 billion schilling. On the other hand, the service providers’ contributions – listen and marvel! – amounted to 42.9 billion in 1990, rising to 57 billion schilling in 1999. Valorization would have been possible at any time, but you did not perform it. If one really wanted to stick to the knowledge of the Constitutional Court, then, despite this increase in family support, a percentage of around 25 percent remained open to meet the standard set in knowledge. But also in the area of the social aspect of the proposed income limit in the multi-child supplement, which you and my colleague Mr Mertel have so much praised, you have set only a negative objective, Mr Federal Minister. 20 percent of service providers are excluded. They know that the people in particular need are to be found in the lower quarters of the population. 80 percent are treated equally and only 20 percent are excluded. There is a question of whether the administrative costs resulting from this are expected at all. I don't know if you thought about it. Mr Finanzminister! To amend the Income Tax Act: It is already certain that the corresponding amendment in respect of both common households and separate households is unconstitutional. The amount of children's contributions is insufficient, in turn it is only transfers which do not bring tax justice. Mr Finanzminister! We liberals have always known us about tax justice in the area of Austrian families. And sufficient consideration of the maintenance burden in tax law would allow you to stagger family allowances socially, according to age and number of children, so that you could really fight family poverty. That's what's happening. However, not currently, and this will not change with your highly praised new model. I come to the conclusion. We liberals have always forced the family tax division, and it has been shown that this will still allow us to live up to the Constitutional Court's knowledge.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e16177	Mr Edler is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e16198	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! You can turn it and turn it as you want: The 1999 budget estimate includes the continuation of a successful consolidation. I believe that this is essentially also being expressed by the Federal Minister in a serious way. Ladies and gentlemen! In many countries we would be glad if we could already consult and decide on the 1999 budget in the spring of 1998. It was, because this was addressed and questioned, made quite clear by the Federal Minister that it was a budget without a electoral sugar. Yes, I do! It is not a budget with electoral sugar, but it is a budget that is necessary to ensure that appropriate impulses can be set. Ladies and gentlemen! Family policy has been discussed, but it has been essentially addressed as well as employment policy. As a social democrat and trade unionist, this is the main task for me. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We had to decide on two savings packages, which were certainly high in thorns, but I said here a few weeks ago that the Austrian population really contributed them. However, we have also created the necessary framework conditions for the economy. We can report or report that there is a total increase of 16.4 percent in exports, especially in exports to the Eastern countries, by 31.7 percent. I do not want to address the overall problem of enlargement in concrete terms now, but the enlargement of the East is certainly an opportunity for us to consider it as an opportunity in the future. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meisinger.]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, I would not only like to say to the sector of the economy that there is a need to give impetus, but I would also like to point out the special quality of our workers. We can be proud of that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If the employment plan, which has now been decided, has repeatedly been urged by the Social Democrats, in particular, to set incentives for young people in the direction of training, this should be seen as a common social policy task. [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! An important area is tax revenue. What is legitimate was also addressed to the increase in wage tax. There is certainly a need for action on tax reform. I hope that it will be possible – and the relevant statements will go in this direction – not only to relieve the labour factor of the tax reform in 2000, but also to eliminate the progression in the area of payroll taxpayers in order to strengthen purchasing power again. I believe that this is an important matter. Ladies and gentlemen! I fully support what the Minister of Finance has said in his budget speech. It is not to be seen that VAT is in default. We need to take a closer look at that. There should be no shock, but I believe that appropriate controls in this area are necessary. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress – and I will do so again and again – that investment in infrastructure is an important contribution to employment policy. If we have heard today that a total of 143 billion shillings will be made liquid for the development of rail infrastructure in the next few years, we must also bear in mind that this will ensure over 200 000 jobs. These investments must be considered from the perspective that they include more than 90 percent return on value added. Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion: Budget and economic policy are not separate. Policy has to create appropriate conditions for the economy. The State has important tasks in the field of employment policy, in particular in the field of State-related matters. I recognize that in view of the high quality of the services we can provide here, contracts are generally awarded in Austria so that they can be added value here. The creation and safeguarding of work is the essential social challenge for all of us, because social security guarantees social peace. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e16283	Mr Dkfm is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Mühlbachler. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e16305	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The key figures of the 1999 budget have been presented in sufficient detail. We have, of course, supported these key facts by the government parties, but the colleagues of the opposition parties have more or less questioned them. Therefore, allow me to use some assessments of our budgetary policy for the critics in particular, for example in the European Commission's letter entitled "Euro 1999", in which Austria is qualified alongside other EU countries. This document notes that, in 1998, an average inflation rate of 1.1 percent was given in Austria and the reference value was thus significantly lowered. It is found that we have a long-term interest rate of 5.6 percent and thus we are also below the reference value. This means that we can provide the economy with good conditions, and that is why the assessment is that Austria has achieved a high degree of lasting convergence. – This has been noted by an objective comparative body, and thus the opposition’s statements that this budget has a brushwork but is very questionable. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In this context, I would like to point out the enlargement of the East. The liberals make it their goal to keep discussing the Easter enlargement and to present it as a threatening ghost. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: How the "blood chocolate"!]] However, they will be punished in this regard as well as in other statements they have made. The last issue of the "Industry" shows that the CEEC market, which is the market of Central and Eastern European countries, is the hope market for Austria. And not for nothing, exports to this market increased by 29.2 percent last year and we have achieved an export volume of 121.7 billion schilling. This is job security! Remember: 600 to 800 jobs per export billion are secured here in Austria. – That means something! But some may not be able to calculate that. [[Abg. Gaugg: You only talk more pots!]] Dear joy, to agriculture. I had a conversation with the Czech ambassador Dr. Jaitner last week. He has told me quite clearly that there are very massive problems in the agricultural sector in the Czech Republic. It was expected that 50 percent of the collectives of private farmers would be taken over. However, only 8 percent of these collectives have been privatized so far, all the other farms are working in wage labour, and this is a burden on Czech agriculture. This is why we will still have to take huge structural measures in order to become competitive with our agricultural system at all. With my last point, I refer in particular to the liberals: Recently, 64 executives of Austrian industrial companies have been asked what they value so much at the Austrian and special locations in Vienna. – The result is: The first priority is political stability, second, public security. For this purpose, the notes 1.52 and 1.67 are awarded from a five-digit scale. Participation in the European internal market is also assessed with note 2, as is participation in the European Monetary Union. – So you live by what our economy demands and appreciates Austria! That's what I wanted to tell you. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e16361	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e16382	Mr President. Federal Minister! After today's pro and counter to this budget – partly in general, partly special – has been dealt with, I would like to limit myself to a few points and then go directly into the replica to colleagues Mühlbachler. Because that will be a special pleasure for me. Federal Minister! My colleague Trattner, our Budgetary Spokesman, rightly noted in his statement that the overall budget is on undulating legs and is based on waving assumptions. If I... [[Abg. Dr. Khol: My God! That is what he has said so far about every budget, and he has never been right!]] Mr Khol! Listen to me! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Stepped Quark becomes wide, not strong!]] From 4.2 percent nominal growth, after deduction of inflation, one comes to 2.5 percent real growth. Federal Minister! You know, just as I and our Budgetary Spokesman do, that these figures do not include the effects of the East Asian financial and monetary crisis. [[Abg. Hans Helmut Moser: They pass Austria!]] If you negate, Minister of State, that there is an impact on this, I would like to ask you: [[Abg. Dr. Khol: He doesn't even know the OECD report on this!]] Listen to your experts, because they tell you that at least 0.25% of growth will be reduced. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: 0.1!]] Experts in Europe predict an influence of about 0.5 percent for Austria. [[Abg. Hans Helmut Moser: But the International Monetary Fund says something else, Firlinger!]] I would like to see, Mr Federal Minister, what you will say when it comes to accounting, and where you take the compensation for the loss of revenue if you simply get away with 0.5 percent growth in your budget. That's where I want to hear your argument! The chief economist of the Deutsche Bundesbank – yes, just shake your head! – Professor Otmar Issing, has made a similar forecast a few days ago, stating that growth will be expected to decrease by about 0.5 or 0.6 percent across Europe. [[Abg. Zweytick: Who is this?]] What was the result? – Mr Issing once spoke of becoming Vice-President of the European Central Bank, but now suddenly he is not left because he is too critical of government. So you can see that it is no different in Germany than in Austria: If one becomes uncomfortable, it is politically cornered. Federal Minister! We will look at this growth problem in due course. But since in your budget speech you announced with pride and pride that we had made it possible to participate in economic and monetary union and that this had actually been over the stage without problems, I would like to say to you: The convergence report needs to be carefully read. [[Abg. May. Mühlbachler: You must not, like the Gaugg, go from wrong conditions!]] It is not just a matter of taking advantage, Mr Mühlbachler, of what is going to be a political situation, but of reading what is in the convergence report as a whole. But you, dear friend – I have to tell you – did not do that! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You've chosen something that fits you into the concept. [[Call the ÖVP: He knows what to do, the Mühlbachler!]] But to help the truth, ladies and gentlemen, let me tell you what the EMI says in the Convergence Report on page 107: "On the other hand, if the overall and primary balance remained constant at the level of 1998, at minus 2.3 percent and 1.7% of GDP respectively, the debt ratio would decrease accordingly. That means that it would only go below the 60 percent reference value in 2010 and 2004 respectively." – You have to say that. Here, Federal Minister, there is a constant working of fine dyeing. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Zweytick: Easter is over!]] Here is explicitly stated, Mr Federal Minister – I also say this to the address of the ÖVP –: "Although such calculations are purely exemplary and cannot be considered as forecasts, they indicate that Austria must continue to achieve significant consolidation progress in order to reduce the debt ratio to 60 percent of GDP or below within a reasonable period of time." . I consider this to be a critical statement in the Convergence Report and not as something that could be thought to be praiseworthy for the Federal Government. But now we have a second problem. – Minister of State! I simply do not believe that you will be waiting for a tax reform until 2000 or 2001. I believe this is simple and simply not because the money will go out to you. This will be done for a number of reasons. If a budget is based on false assumptions and then certain framework conditions do not occur, you will need money. Then you will go here and not implement a tax reform for the benefit of workers and households, but you will make a tax reform which represents a new tax package. It will go toward wealth taxation, it will go toward unit values, as it is already being bred through the newspapers today. I would like to give you an example: With a rent house with six rental apartments built in 1942, the basic tax is currently 2 006 S per year. If the current unit value of the transport value were used as the basis for the basic tax, the basic tax would increase to 29 000 S per year. Conversion to the square meter price means that the basic tax will increase from currently 66 sizes per square metre per month to 7.40 s. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. What a terrible thing!]] – I can only say: Prost, dinner – the tenants will be happy! There are other examples, Mr Federal Minister, in which it becomes even more drastic. At a family house built in 1940, the basic tax is currently 1 065 S per year. If the basic tax on transport value were used as a basis, the basic tax would rise to 26 300 s a year. – These examples, Mr. Federal Minister, are not my invention. I did not say this out of my fingers, but refer to a statement by the Upper Austrian head of state Pühringer. He moves against your tax plans massively to fields and has given you the... [[Federal Minister Edlinger: These are not my tax plans! Where are you taking this?]] All right. Free greetings, please, to the Tax Reform Commission! Any order You gave them. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! Finally, I would like to conclude by saying: Make reasonable tax reform plans aimed at a discharge, but do not make such a nonsensus with which you punish Austria and its citizens, rather than reward the caretaker, the diligent and the committed who does something in this country.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e16605	Mrs Bures is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e16626	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Even during today's debate, but now all the more so, I feel that it is on the right side here, so to speak, the powers of darkness. Therefore, I would like to take the opportunity to bring the power of light into your ranks. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Whether you want to take note of it or not: I would like to make it clear to you once again, although many of my colleagues have already done so, in particular the Minister of Finance, the starting point to put the matter in the right light, as has been said. The starting point in Austria is not only positive because it has happened by chance, but because there has been a large number of reforms in recent years, which have improved the quality of life in Austria. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: strains!]] It is an indisputable fact that we have the second lowest unemployment rate within the EU, that Austria is one of the most price-stable countries in the world, and that the forecasts already quoted today are about to increase income and private consumption in 1999. [[Abg. Gaugg: So no problems! Everything's fine!]] All the more, we are not content with the statements of the "powers of darkness". We have, of course, also outlined this – Mr Novotny, too – problem areas which, at the same time, represent the challenges of the future for us, which I would like to address briefly and which you – apart from polemics – did not give any answers. The first priority is a future enhanced commitment in the field of the working world. This means nothing more than a continuation of the activity of the past few years. Much has been said today about the concrete measures and the very dedicated programme under the National Employment Programme. [[Abg. Gaugg: Further production of the unemployed!]] Furthermore, it is a continuation of the consolidation course. We should refer to this, although we will come back to it in the detailed debates over the next few weeks. On the question of additional funding for families, the negative tax should be applied to those people who have low incomes and whose tax performance is low, and to the strengthening of family support for each child: from 1999 onwards in a first phase, from 2000 onwards in a second phase. A very important point from my point of view is the question of the conditions under which women can be employed. – Women generally still have the sole responsibility for the education of children and the management of the household. We are obliged to support it. This includes the measure of providing 600 million Schilling alone by the federal government for a total of 18,000 childcare places. This is, in my view, a very dedicated programme for 1999, which seems to me to be necessary in the interests of women's employment. However, there are a number of measures which lead to concrete improvements and do not directly affect the budget. I cordially invite you to agree, especially with regard to women's employment. When it comes to the right to part-time work, you agree that there is a right to part-time work until 6. The child's year of life is to be given! This does not affect the budget and improves the living situation of women in concrete terms. When it comes to extending the retention period after karenz leave to 26 weeks! This does not burden the budget, but it improves specifically, from one day to the next, the situation of many women and thus increases their career opportunities. As regards the measures in the field of basic tax, you too, Mr Firlinger, have – albeit restrictively – been addressed. Where can we improve the living situation? – An example: The basic tax is part of the operating costs. I cordially invite you to vote when it comes to renting law, there are clear renting rates, and there are not more and more apartments out of the rental right. When free agreements are made on the rent rate, the tenant is always the weaker one, and there you stand on the side of the landlords. You cannot count on this house when it comes to actually reducing the housing costs of the people, the Austrians and Austrians. The last point I would like to make is the question of tax reductions. In this discussion, it is always about the question of whose costs are the resulting less-incomes. – Minister of State! I would like to thank you for even greater efforts in the future to protect the fair taxpayer from those who are acting unfairly, who are making, so to speak, unreasonable tax cuts for themselves. In this respect too, I miss your commitment. [[towards the liberals]] But perhaps in your group there is a personal concern of one colleague or another, with regard to unfair tax reduction and non-delivery of tax benefits. I see today's discussion as a start. In the next few weeks, we will have the opportunity to discuss each chapter here. But I think that this budget as a whole shows – it is very important for me, Mr Federal Minister, that you have also made this clear – that, in your view, budgetary policy should be seen as a social and social policy, because the budget in this country is also a very essential distribution and justice factor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e16699	Mrs Gatterer has also been mentioned. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e16721	Mr President. Minister! The creation of jobs, the support of families, the improvement of opportunities for women, in general Agenda 2000, generally the budget framework and the circumstances of life of Austria, the circumstances of life of the Austrians are traditionally the focus of the first reading of the budget. This is also the case today with the 1999 budget, which, in my opinion, has to recognise the opposition, which creates very good framework conditions for the year 1999. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Nevertheless, the first reading of the Federal Finance Act is also an opportunity to discuss politically important issues that are not – or are not yet – on the agenda. I would like to take advantage of this opportunity today. I would like to talk about one of the last major taboos in our country: the topic of death and death aid. As a result of the handing over of that manifesto to the President of the National Council, in which the wish is expressed to allow active death aid and killings on request in Austria, I believe that politics is also called upon to deal actively with this issue. The topic of death is primarily linked to fear and oppression in our society. On the one hand, many people are afraid that the use of modern high-performance medicine will prolong a painful death process – perhaps even against their will – and therefore they cannot die in peace. On the other hand, there is growing concern that life could be reduced prematurely, not least in view of the growing population, perhaps also in the light of austerity measures in the health field, but above all in view of the ethical uncertainty of judgment in dealing with this issue. I believe that politics is called upon to deal with the question of a decent death. We have to ask: What are the ways and forms of dying in today’s society to look like? How does death accompaniment look like a self-determined, self-responsible death? – I think we have to ask two other essential questions: Is a person at the end of a disease so taxable to deal consciously with one’s own death? – And what is even more important: How can we shape the environment – the framework conditions – for these people? Since the subject of death aid is always discussed rather superficially, I would like to briefly point to substantial differences to be taken into account when talking about death aid. [[Abg. Aumayr: Are you talking about the agricultural budget? Are you talking about the farmers? What does that have to do with the budget?]] Mrs. Aumayr! I told you at the outset that in the context of the budget debate there is an opportunity to discuss other important political issues as well. This is an important issue for me, and that is why I am now talking about it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I think we also have to deal with this issue from the political point of view. We need to examine how we can enable patients to die pain-free and fear-free. We need to consider how we can bring medical care and care in this direction in order to deal with this issue and ensure better death support. We need to know that the primary aim of dying is to die painless, not to die alone, to die in the circle of the family. I believe that we in the Austrian Parliament will soon have to deal intensively with this issue. Because this topic is demanding and ethically very difficult to deal with. Personally, I would like to say that for me the demand for active death aid and killing on request is not a form in which we should approach this issue. This contradicts our right to life, which is established in the Constitution. If one considers this to be liberalisation – Heide Schmidt has actively adopted this issue as a candidate for the presidency a few years ago; for example, she also supports active death aid – then I must resist that this is only a front-end liberalisation. In reality, when we open this door, we force the sick and the sick to take this opportunity and follow this path, putting them under great social and psychological pressure! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Killing on demand is a threat to my entry into the Euthanasia society. That is why we should make every effort to ensure that this door is not opened!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e16776	Mr Koller is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e16798	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. The agricultural budget will continue to fall by more than 1 billion Schilling in 1999. The budget for agriculture and forestry in 1996 was still over 29 billion Schilling; in 1999 it will only be 23.4 billion Schilling. This is budget renovation at the expense and expense of farmers! According to Wifo expert Dr. Matthias Schneider, farm income fell by 8.4 percent in 1997 and thus significantly higher than in the EU average. Farmers' incomes fell only by 2.8 percent. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Farmer mortality will continue through your budget policy. 8,000 to 10,000 jobs in agriculture are lost annually. The continuation of free and efficient farming is a prerequisite for the conservation of the natural livelihoods. Degressive compensatory payments are under way. These amounted to 7.3 billion schilling in the first year of EU accession in 1995. Farmers will not be able to make up for this loss of support. The dependence of agriculture on the public sector and hence on policy decisions, especially those of the EU, is becoming increasingly evident. Minister! Austria has the highest diesel oil price in Europe. I call on you to reduce the price of diesel at European average by means of tax relief measures! Ladies and gentlemen! Since 1995, both the §-7 Commission and the Freedoms have called for the increase in the standard VAT rate from 10 to 12 percent. Farmers lose 1.75 billion schilling each year because of the absence of this measure. Our requests are repeatedly rejected by you, although you are always referred to by the ÖVP as a peasant party. It's an anti-farm! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Austria's farmers are stuck in a price and cost shear. The Federal Government is increasingly attracting the tax, tax and fee screw and is thus buying the homemade part of the farmer's death. Ladies and gentlemen! My colleague, Mr Reichhold, has already said at the urgent request that Agenda 2000 will be a bitter pill for farmers: in cattle minus 30 percent, in cereals minus 20 percent, in milk minus 15 percent. These proposals make the Commission even more powerful, the bureaucracy even more imperceptible and the dependence even greater. The ÖVP is playing a dangerous double game here, on the one hand, which seems to be acting against Agenda 2000 and on the other hand to stand up for the enlargement of the East. The big losers of this double game will be the farmers. The burning problems will not be solved by this 1999 budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e16852	Mr Marizzi is now speaking. - Please, Peter.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e16873	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! From farmers back to economic policy and convergence and convergence criteria. Ladies and gentlemen! It was a difficult and ambitious path that the Federal Government has taken to reach the Maastricht criteria. I think we should thank the Federal Minister for Finance and the Minister for Economic Affairs for this. This is not just a matter of monetary union, and it is not – as Dr. Haider said – a kneeling in front of Europe, but of the economic and monetary union, it is a matter of securing the economic location of Austria. You have forgotten one thing, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals: This Federal Government, this small Austria, has moved a lot in Brussels, such as the inclusion of employment programmes. We have moved that, and we are proud of it – also in the common Europe! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It's not a euphoria, it's not a pink-red painting. Mr Novotny referred to the Stability Pact, and we know very well, ladies and gentlemen, that very difficult obstacles will still be encountered. The fact that there is no euphoria here, but a clear task, which is evident in the budget figures and from the documents that have been received to us. On some points of this debate, I would first like to refer to the fact that it was said that the investment would be reduced. There are two examples, ladies and gentlemen. In 1997, the FGG increased its equity and thus increased the financing potential from 10 billion to 30 billion schilling to boost the economy. In 1999 alone, 23.4 billion – 4.5 billion more – will flow into the construction industry and infrastructure measures. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I know that as an opposition, you have the right to show that and to say that everything is bad, everything is terrible, but at least stick to the numbers. I want the "Kurier" of 4. April – you should also read newspapers – quote the economic forecasts: Winter is over, GDP is growing in real terms, consumer prices are falling. Unfortunately, the unemployment rate – as you have to be very open – has increased by 0.1 percent, but private consumption is increasing. Ladies and gentlemen! If we look at the situation in terms of jobs, we must say one thing with all the clarity: In 1997, we had 2,968 million employees, with 2,993 million in 1998 and 3,012 million in 1999. We are facing the phenomenon: more workers, but also more unemployed. In my opinion, therefore, we can be proud that there has been an agreement on the job package and that the fight against unemployment is a common goal. Of course, there are different developments in the labour market, there are winners and losers. You should read the "Economic Sheet", ladies and gentlemen, from which you can see exactly in which sectors increases are to be expected. I think that's important, too. To quote the "Kurier" again: 1 billion more schilling for the apprenticeships. – An ambitious programme is also evident in this, and I think that the Federal Minister for Finance and the Minister of Economic Affairs has set clear guidelines in many directions to give Austria a boost again. I believe that the deregulation of telecommunications or the trade regulation has implemented important points, even though we would have wanted more liberalisation. The pension reform has been abolished, an administrative reform has been launched, reasonable privatisations have been introduced, and economic growth is increasing. It can therefore not be so bad in Austria. Please also read the "profile" of the current week! Let us look at the full order books of the industry: 13 percent more orders! So, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, it can be said that the economy is growing and exports are rising. Today it has already been said that only in trade with Hungary 34.5 billion are booked for the foreign economy. Hungary is third among the trading partners to Germany and Italy. Exports of goods will rise by 10 per cent in 1998 and 8.5 per cent in 1999. – It all sounds simple, but the Federal Government has set the economic conditions for it and had success with it. I would like to make a comment: When you look at the Wifo and IHS analyses, you can see that it is always easy to read how good the economy is, but it is never mentioned that the workers and employees employed in these enterprises also do something for this economy. I think that a special priority should be given to those people who are busy in the farms! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'll get you together. There is increased investment in this budget, more money for education and research, more money for families and more money for security. I therefore believe that the Federal Minister for Finance has presented us with a good budget. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e16949	Mr Großruck. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e16970	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Gartlehner will probably remember, apart from me, that he was here today at 13:45 a.m. and at the beginning of his debate he said that he felt it almost a punishment of God to speak after the Minister of Finance who had immediately given his statement. Mr Gartlehner! I noticed this because you chose exactly the same passage for the entrance I wanted to use for my speech today. In this way, I now save myself from getting closer to it. I am referring to page 4 of the budget speech by Mr Rudolf EdlingerDort, who determines the right direction and points out that the dimension of budgetary development and the budgetary consolidation we are now pursuing is going in the right direction. – I can fully agree with this! However, I have to point out – and this has already been said several times today – who was the father of this change of direction: It was our party observer Dr. Schüssel, who recognized the signs of the time three, four years ago and pulled the line, and only because of new elections could we reach another view of budget debt. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] And it is gratifying that the new Minister of Finance, Edlinger, has consistently and correctly pursued this right path. We will, of course, support him and assure him of our full willingness to march. We are also confirmed by the European Commission in today's report on convergence. So this statement is not from the Austrian Parliament, not from the government parties, but from the European Commission – I quote –: "The average inflation rate in Austria was 1.1 percent in the twelve months to January 1998 and below the reference value of 2.7 percent." It also says: "However, the public deficit has been reduced from 5.2 of GDP in 1995 to 2.5 in 1997 and thus below the reference value. A further decline in the deficit is expected for 1998." The Commission report also states: "After assessing the fulfilment of the convergence criteria, the Commission considers that Austria has achieved a high level of sustainable convergence." – This means our 1998 budget and therefore also our direction and our financial policy development in the coming years. This is the one side of the medal. However, there is still a second side, a non-public, non-state, but which is also particularly significant in terms of economics and therefore important: I mean our associations, in which many volunteers do without payment and without getting anything for it daily, do their work day out and therefore also make a very important contribution to our economy. Head of State Dr. Pühringer made a study in Upper Austria at the Kepler University of Linz, and Professor Dr. Klaus Zapotozky published a study on the honorary office in 1996, stating that only in Upper Austria, 230 000 women and men per year provide 41.2 million hours of volunteering. Professor Zapotozky makes the following hypothesis – I quote –: "If an hour of volunteering is set at an hourly rate of 200 s, this results in a total performance of more than 8.2 billion Schillings by volunteers and officials in Upper Austria." If this were to be calculated in Austria, we would be able to reach about 50 billion schillings or close to the budget deficit, which is over 60 million; this is twice as much as the Minister of the Interior has available for his place of business in the year. This must be done on the tongue! And therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is our firm will to support those who are volunteering, whether in music clubs, in fire brigades, in red-crust organizations or in auxiliary services. We say a clear no to the erodement of the honorary office and to the deterioration of the well-functioning association law for 100 years, a clear no to legislate shocks, the volunteer aid organizations such as now the fire brigade by the driving licence law and by the Promille Act. In this area, a corrective action is urgently needed, and I am pleased that measures have already been taken to remedy this legal uncertainty. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Austrian People's Party says a clear yes to the honorary office and to the clubs, to their unpaid and priceless achievements, a clear yes also to the voluntary fire brigades and voluntary relief services, a yes to the elimination of harassment and a great and unconditional yes to a new solidarity of citizens, as also our clubman Dr. Khol in his book "My Political Credo" – I recommend everyone to read this!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e17048	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Nut trees. The clock is set to 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e17070	Mr President. High house! Federal Minister! First of all, I would like to congratulate you on two small compliments. First: Unlike some of your colleagues, you sit down here and at least try to listen. Secondly, The budget will be dealt with in a timely manner. – However, I have not seen you write down, Mr. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Otherwise, the present 1999 budget – which has already been stressed several times today – is another very impotent continuation of the previous budget policy with tricks such as disbursements and so on. Approaches to structural reforms can also be found in this budget. There can be no talk of sustainable budget renovation, as it was raised by 1.9 percent two years ago as a target. The false amount – already mentioned today – accounts for 20 billion schillings. Federal Minister! In any case, according to OECD, the budget deficit for 1999 is too high. Since all declarations of support issued by representatives of the government parties are of little use here. And if in this context you still have to flee into the praise of volunteering like my previous speaker Grossruck, then you either have not studied the budget or do not want to say anything to the budget. Mr Finanzminister! If one compares only the data submitted last July 1997 with the data available, then it can be found that in turn you have 6 billion more expenditure on expenditure. The problem is that they are covered in particular. They continue to remove the Christbaum, which was once fully suspended, by partly very uncertain once-in-a-life income, for example by transferring the property to the Bundesimmobiliengesellschaft, by making interest profits from retransmissions of long-term debt, by higher revenue tax revenue and by increasing tax control – you do not know whether what you assume will also happen – and by increasing economic revenues. Mr Finanzminister! They have joined this government in order to solve the major problems of this country. They have proudly presented in the budget speech – I quote – the significant reforms that have been made in recent years in modernising the economic, social and administrative frameworks. – Minister of State! I ask you: Is the combination of various related trades a liberalisation of the trade order? Is a budgetary more than 3.7 billion Schilling to pension for 1999 a pension reform? Is the stagnation of the research rate at 1.56 percent a technology offensive? And on the administrative reform: What is the introduction of the administrative reform? You don't think you understand the labor contract puss, which even tax advisors don't understand? Do you think that the environmental impact assessment, since its introduction, has resulted in a positive conclusion of a single procedure concerning a ski lift? Or do you mean the holiday scheme for seasonal workers, which is caused by the lack of an aliquotation bill for taxpayers? – I could still ask you many, many similar questions. It is true that we have a higher growth, triggered by a softer schilling. But that is why the budget for me is a real disappointment, Minister of Finance. Or do you seriously believe that the Austrian citizen has not felt the higher tax and tax burden by 147 billion? Do you seriously believe that the Austrian citizen is unable to add the figure of 70 billion and the additional burden of 107 billion to the federal government in order to reach the amount of 177 billion? So where are the savings? – In fact, the budget shows that you spend more. Or do you seriously believe that the frequent export success has arisen through the two load packages? Do you not also think that these export improvements are based solely on the fact that the schilling has become softer, while other currencies, especially the dollar, have become harder? Mr Finanzminister! The softer schilling has one more side. You will notice this very soon, when the conversion rates for the euro are fixed at the beginning of May. Why, Minister of State? – At the beginning of 1995, we had a Euro parity of 13,32 S, so we had to pay 13,32 S for an ECU. Today, the Euro costs 14.04 p. This means that we will receive less euros for Austrian capital, estimated at some 4,000 billion dollars. This can amount to up to 200 billion schillings, which we cannot achieve with the current course against January 1995. Although this will not be noticed directly and immediately by the public, it has no influence on the budget, it is undisputed that this will reduce the value of Austrian assets. It could also be said that this will be the first major European financial compensation in this monetary union. It is incomprehensible to me that Austria, which has pursued a hard currency policy for good reasons, now, when it comes to exchange against the euro, not only accepts a softer schilling, but also cements through budget policy. Federal Minister! They will be the Minister of Finance who will be responsible to citizens in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e17131	The next speaker is Mrs Gisela Wurm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e17152	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Apart from a few months in 1994, I have been working as a parliamentarian in Vienna for about two years. This time began to be turbulent because the double budget for the years 1996 and 1997 had to be decided at the beginning of the legislative period. The so-called savings package had given rise to neat whirlwinds, great excitement and intense discussions. Many people in Tyrol and elsewhere I spoke to at the time thought that it would be painful and unpleasant if the belt had to be tightened up, but that they would be ready for this sacrifice if the government budget were to be built up in a sustainable way and given budgetary flexibility. However, with many I heard the more or less inconceivable threat: But woe to her politicians to just pull the money out of our pocket and not to change structurally! That's enough for us! Now, two years later, we see that, contrary to all the unconventions – above all, to all the unconventions of the opposition – a budget consolidation has been achieved. Key figures have improved, the Maastricht criteria have been loosened and, in my opinion, without any tricks. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Meisinger.]] Just laugh! The Austrians have applied for these consolidation measures, perhaps – I already admit – with co-cooked teeth, but yet understanding. Real income losses are hard. And even if the savings package has met all the levels of population, I must say that the greatest victims have once again brought the lower levels of income in which there are above-average numbers of women. For those who have to spend little money, the loss of 100 s, which he or she needs for daily life, is far more than a top earner of the loss of 1 000 s, which he may find to be lacking in the purchase of shares. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! We currently have the highest level of employment in Austria, and it continues to rise. Nevertheless, unemployment does not decrease. One of the main reasons is that many women push away from housework into the labour market. Many of these women don't just want to enjoy the luxury, as some of them don't rarely think well-informed cynics are, but they are simply and simply threatened with poverty. With us in Tyrol, a study on the labour market, unemployment and poverty in Tyrol was recently published on behalf of the Tyrolean state government and the ÖGB Tyrol. This so-called "poverty study" has caused a great deal of attention because it states that Tyroleans who earn less than 9,750 S of income are potentially vulnerable to poverty. Some 37,000 households, 15 percent of Tyrol’s households, are threatened with poverty. These figures apply more or less to the whole of Austria, because Tyrol is not the richest, but also not the poorest federal state, so it is on average. Pharisees, who sometimes have hundreds of thousands themselves, if not millions of schilling incomes, were defying this study. That's how one official – I'm not sure, but I think it was a official of the Industrial Union – said that many could live happily and happily with 5,000 s, according to the motto: Poor, but happy. – In view of the sometimes extreme rental prices and the high cost of living in our country, I feel that this is a white cynicism! For me, it is clear that women from such levels of income must push into the labour market, but I would also like to add that other women who may not have to work but who like to be able to do so should be allowed to do so. Today, it is a great desire to be able to unite, above all, the younger women, the profession and the family, and this requires the creation of appropriate framework conditions, which are mainly about childcare facilities. I am therefore particularly pleased that the action of the so-called kindergarten billions – that is, 600 million schillings, which are being advanced by the federal government, and another 600 million schillings that contribute to the countries – will continue with this budget. That means more about 17 000 to 20,000 childcare places again. This further initial inflammation of the federal government ensures something like a comprehensive child care area expansion, which is – and this is also important – the expansion of child care places for children from the second year of life and also after the education, in the folk school, because then the problems start properly. For all, but especially for women, an active employment policy, as provided for in this budget, is extremely important. Although, according to a recently published "Spectra" survey, the Austrians are still pessimistic and many – I hope, falsely – believe that the economy will be downhill in the near future, the already very low unemployment rate in Austria on the European average will for the first time be slightly reduced by 4.5 percent in the next year following the research institutes' forecasts. The government's employment impulses will contribute to this. The fact that more money is available for education, training, science and research is an important investment in the future and shows that, after the so-called savings packages, there is now room for manoeuvre in the budget. Ladies and gentlemen! Minister of Finance Edlinger also addressed the liberalisation of capital markets and the globalisation of the economy in his budget speech. There will be many changes and dangers, but also opportunities for us Austrians. In particular, the draft multilateral agreement on investment, in short called MAI, has been strongly debated. In this context, fears are expressed that the unhindered capitalism could celebrate joyful origins and that international corporations could invest in all the local structures that have grown, popularly speaking. As an example, the European film industry is repeatedly mentioned. There is no question that violent things come to mind here and that we must be careful that our high social standards are maintained. Perhaps in the past, we have failed to respect international treaties. For example, the conclusion of the GATT-like WTO agreements has hardly been observed by the Austrians, although they have brought us some changes and also disadvantages, which are now falsely often charged with accession to the EU. We must learn from this, and I am convinced that the MAI Treaty, if it is to be achieved, will have to bear the handwriting of Austria and other highly developed small and medium-sized countries. Because when it comes to certain standards, there is almost something like a national consensus. Even if the coalition partners are not always of an opinion and – I must point out this in particular – come from different worldly camps, I am sure that the ÖVP will also pull on the same rope when it comes to preventing the fact that with an unfavourable MAI agreement, both the "eco" and the "social" component and the "social" component are the very word of the eco-social market economy. Nobody wants an unbridled capitalism in Austria. This budget has a high level of social responsibility. It is a successful work that continues to guarantee the Austrian path, which is characterised by social security, relatively low unemployment and social stability.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e17234	The next speaker is Mr Karl Freund. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e17258	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If we are discussing the 1999 budget at first reading today, I believe that, as a very important area, we must mention the budget chapter on agriculture, because it first helps to secure farmers' incomes and, secondly, can have a positive impact on development throughout the rural area. The farmer needs stability and security in terms of compensation, because the prices for the products he produces are partly heavily broken down, because the decline in degressive compensation payments is increasingly felt, but also because the BSE crisis and currency turbulence in this area are also reflected. International developments in the market can also be observed accordingly, as developments are often negative, which makes our farmers very much possible. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I believe that the government's agreement with the countries on the 40 billion package is very positive by 2002 because it creates confidence and security. Again and again it is said that compensation payments and subsidies in the EU had already reached the acceptable ceiling. However, if we look at America, we can see that in the United States agriculture is much higher than in the EU. The difference lies only in the fact that the promotions are hidden there. In America, on average, a farm gets about 273,000 S, in Europe there are 62 000 S. That means that our promotions and compensation payments are entitled. We do not need to be accused of this because it is about maintaining agricultural agriculture. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If employment programmes are discussed, of course the workplace must also be included in the farm, because it is the foundation for the rural regions. That's why we must not starve at him. The Austrian citizen is proud of his country because it is a beautiful country and it can be well lived here. Our national task must therefore be to ensure that this beauty of nature, the natural production of food and the protection of the environment are maintained. That is why every schilling is well established and invested for our farmers. We must also do everything we can to ensure that life in the countryside remains attractive in this context. It is constantly being said of the future: of the future agricultural policy, of the future economic and social policy, of the future employment policy. I note that in this context we are never talking about youth, but the youth, our children are the future of our country. We must therefore give young people prospects, and there must above all be prospects for young people in the country. We must create framework conditions that young people like to stay in the countryside again, through active cooperation in the clubs, because there can be communicated the experience of the community and the comradeship. We need an expansion of sports facilities and educational facilities. We must create jobs in the countryside, improve transport links and drive forward rail development. As a farmer, I also, of course, very much welcome the agreement within the government on the family package, especially because this package is increasingly for the benefit of families in the countryside and farmers' families, because there are the most child-rich families living there. I think it is very positive that from 2000 onwards every family will get more by 6 000 s per child and year. This particularly contributes to strengthening the economic strength of our consumers. However, I think it is very negative, Mr Financier, if you speak of an increase in the basic tax at your place of business. If reality is to become, then the families are again deprived of what they are now given. It is known and no news that larger houses and apartments must be purchased when the families are larger. That is why these plans must be rejected! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Security and stability are needed, and policies are required to give them to the citizens. The country and its farmers must play a central role in this. This budget can be used to achieve something in this direction.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e17324	Mr Mentil. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e17346	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Dieter Kindermann again provides proof of the foundation of decades of budgetary policy: "Citizens on taxpayers' costs". If one reads there that the costs for the land preparation fees and for two construction competitions consume 232 million schilling and one is still not ready to have a machine faculty, then one thinks: What is there in the Republic? If you also read that the German army is hammering and so-called stocks amounting to 19.8 billion – billions! – Schilling has been lying, then I think: [[Abg. May. Steindl: Where's that?]] Minister! If you were to check there and look at it – what reserves would be there to succeed! When you look at these things, one of the cold showers runs over the back. [[Abg. May. Steindl: Where's that?]] Mr Novotny and Mr Khol – he is not here right now – were the first speakers today. I have really believed that they come from another planet, because Mr. Khol... [[Abg. May. Steindl: Both are here!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol is standing in front of his seat and is demonstratingly looking at the speaker.]] Yes, I am very pleased! For I have to tell you that I am a trade and trade expert in the Lower Austrian Chamber of Commerce. The tradesmen and tradesmen employ 75 percent of Austrian workers. [[Abg. Murauer: This is nothing new!]] What you represent and what the craftsmen, what the small and medium-sized enterprises really are experiencing at the moment, is so different that I have to ask myself: How do you have your knowledge? For Mr Novotny, I understand. He always says: I'm a theorist. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: These are facts!]] It may already be that an economic theorist sees things differently from the practitioner. I take note of that. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Especially if he wants to go to the National Bank!]] Practice and theory can separate. But with you, Mr Khol, I think it might be better for you to have your speeches on the budget written by someone else, because it is no longer even fairy tale bookable, Mr Khol, what you have given in this direction today. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: He doesn't need that!]] Do you not know, Mr Khol, that your colleague Mr Farnleitner, Mr Farnleitner, a co-operator in the Chamber of Commerce, is thinking seriously about how he could relieve small and medium-sized enterprises, for he is aware that these small and medium-sized enterprises, which employ 75 percent of workers and employees, are in great, terrible difficulties. But what should I tell you? [[Abg. May. Steindl: Nothing!]] – You have made a budget policy for years, Minister, which you have achieved: They are now meeting the convergence criteria. You've got these under control, and the railway's over it. Only the price for meeting the convergence criteria is high: Unemployment, extreme burden on taxpayers, for citizens, loss of purchasing power, therefore also the difficulties of small and medium-sized enterprises, and 1.2 million Austrians live at the poverty line. If you do not believe this, Minister, it is easy for me to prove to you that you have no room for investment. [[Abg. Großruck: You don't need proof anyway!]] I believe that your piece of cakes, which has now disappeared, must be seen as a whole, and you no longer need to look for a cone that is available to you. I can prove this to you because the Institute for Commercial and Craft Research has now carried out the survey on the first quarter of 1998. Please listen to me, Minister, what's in it! The share of public procurement in the total order has reached a new historical temperature. Since 1990, only 16.3 percent of the Austrian population have been available for the first time on average. [[Abg. May. Steindl: Where's that?]] The share of public contracts in all orders in Austria fell to 16.3 percent! [[Abg. May. Mühlbachler: Are the others so good?]] No, the Minister has no money. He can't invest anything. He is not able to make investments to revive the economy. That's his problem. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But it's going on. Overall, sales developments in the first quarter now remain negative in the sixth year in a row. For the period from January to March 1998, 71 percent of businesses in the field of crafts and trade report stagnating, 23 percent dropped and only 5 percent increased sales. These are statistics which, please, need to be recognized. I could make them available to you for the whole of Austria. We are stuck in a fad of economics that will not last long. I'll give you my word on it: This budget, which you decide for 1999, bears the same powers. The farms will not be burdened, this development will continue, the bill will be just as low for you in 1999 as for 1998, and the bitter pill will come in 2000. You will experience it, Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e17530	The next speaker is Mr Müller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e17551	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The 1999 budget is the first euro budget, and Austria can be proud to point out that our country first met the convergence criteria, but not, Mr Grossruck, because Mr Vice-Chanceller Schüssel has broken new elections from the fence, but that is only the merit of our Social Democratic Minister of Finance. [[Abg. Großruck: That's it!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] Mr Grossruck! In your speech, you highlighted the many club activities in a positive sense. I'm sure that's what I'm doing. However, I did not fully understand your speech because the Federal Government does not intend to amend the association law without the broad consent of those concerned. This has already been underlined and emphasized several times by both the Interior Minister and the Federal Chancellor. It seems that the ÖVP still does not want to take note of the truth and abuse the members of the association for party policy purposes. As already in the Federal estimates for 1998, structural changes are also included in the now present Federal Budget draft. The priorities of the budget – which has already been discussed and stressed several times today – are in the field of employment, education and research, in the field of safety and, above all, in the family sector. Employment policy is also a central concern of the Austrian Federal Government in 1999. That is why, in 1999 a total of around 52 billion Schilling will benefit directly from the security and creation of jobs in our country for economic promotions, labour market policies and agricultural support. In addition, 1.5 billion Schilling is invested in the National Employment Plan. Another focus – and this has already been stressed today – is on education and research in the 1999 budget. In order to be competitive, research and development must be intensified in our country – we know that. Because only through innovation and know-how is economic stability secured. The family package already discussed many times today can, of course, be considered part of the tax reform 2000. It is known that the first stage of the family tax reform will take place in the coming year with an effort of 6 billion schilling. The family compensation fund must bear half of this, the rest being divided according to the distribution key of the federal, state and local authorities, with around one third of the tax disbursement effected by countries and municipalities. Of course, it has to be mentioned that the family tax reform is somewhat restricting the financial possibilities of the forthcoming tax reform. However, this advance on tax reform in 2000 will give a substantial relief to around two thirds of Austrian households already in the coming year. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] High house! The economic recovery of our economy will also have a positive impact on the budget. In the production of budgets, the Federal Government has assumed a real economic growth of 2.8 percent. In the meantime, economic researchers expect a growth of 3 percent. According to their forecasts, 1999 will significantly increase income, private consumption and goods exports. Of course, higher growth will also be reflected in the increase in the number of employees. The forthcoming tax reform will not only bring down tariff cuts, but will primarily eliminate injustices and thus ensure social balance. Mr Finanzminister! However, the tax reform must not only be carried out at the expense of the municipalities, especially the smaller communities, because a lower rate of taxation on the municipal tax, as the tax commission is discussing it, is not an adequate compensation for me as the mayor of a smaller community, even if it is also intended to raise the basic tax. Such a measure would primarily benefit the richer communities. Therefore, I will only welcome the discussion on a new single value statement insofar as it leads to the fact that speculation land – land that is being used to discard large capital gains, or dedicated land that does not come to the market for speculation purposes – is increasingly taxed. However, no house builders, who often invest their entire family income throughout their lives, may be asked to pay for water, waste and canal at any rate. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, it can be said that the 1999 budget is indicative of the future of our country, because with the turn of the millennium new tasks for the implementation of the tax reform as well as entry into the European monetary union are ahead. With the 1999 budget, we are already laying a foundation stone for this. The Minister of Finance and the Government have prepared this way through a prudent and wise budgetary policy.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e17614	The next speaker is Mrs Tichy-Schreder. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e17635	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Schaffenrath has complained that no word has been spoken about vocational training in today's debate. She asked Mr Stummvoll – he was not in the room at the time – whether he was satisfied with the outcome of the National Employment Plan. Ladies and gentlemen! I'd like to tell you, The agreement on the National Employment Plan is another step in the right direction, but we cannot be satisfied by the economy about it. [[Abg. Dr Gredler: Aha!]] We should and must continue to work on this issue in the future. I am very grateful to honourable Members for pointing out, as was the case with our clubman Dr. Khol, especially at the beginning of the debate on the first reading of the budget, the need to continue to pursue the stability course. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Novotny.]] We must remain at the stability rate, otherwise we will not be able to maintain the economy and employment in Austria. For this reason, the framework for investment set out in the budget is an important, although not the sole, issue within this budget. I would like, although my speaking time is very short, to speak deliberately about vocational training and the theme of apprenticeship, and I am glad that Mr President Verzellnitsch and Mr Nürnberger are here in the room. I am pleased that we have taken a step further, but, Mr President, there are still many steps to be taken in this direction. I am particularly pleased to receive a letter from the trade union of private workers, industry and commerce, because it has me on its 13th anniversary. Annual General Meeting from 25 to 27. May be invited. As a Member of Parliament, I will be given the opportunity to comment on the issues raised in this letter. I would particularly like to thank the gentlemen who have personally signed: Section Chairman Ing. Martin Krassnitzer, Head of Section Secretary, Ing. Walter Laichmann and Secretary Mag. Axel Maier. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President of the Council! This concerns working conditions and working relations, industrial policy, employment location, works council work, trade union organisation, new technologies, environment and industrial developments. That is where I read words about which I have rarely heard anything here in the House, Mr President Vergestnich, and I think it is admirable how this union has recognized the signs of time. This is where I read about industrial policy that the historical weakness of private capital in Austria has been masked for too long by the dominant role of the state-owned industry. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: There we are proud of our union!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nürnberger.]] I can also read that, through industrial progress and the associated introduction of new technologies and new management policies, industrial and industrial skills are changing. Drastically formulated, the classic industrial worker disappears in the Taylorist sense, and there is a stronger integration of planning and executive activity. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Laichmann, a great guy!]] The life cycle of the products and thus of the different professional groups has been extremely shortened, and in parentheses is added – you hear and marvel! –: Of course, the life cycles of individual companies tend to be reduced. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a challenge. How grateful I would be if we were to discuss the issues raised in this letter! When will come Your appeal, Mr. Vergestnich? – The call: Dear Social Partners Economy, let's get together! Let us discuss these issues until we all know what is happening! If that were the case, we would not have a joint committee within the Chamber of Commerce, as you, Mr Verzellnich, have called for, so that we could regroup the tableware companies from industry to industry. What's that for? [[Abg. Constantly shakes the head.]] – Of course, this Joint Committee has been called upon by you, Mr Vergebnitsch! My time and the time of many others you have used it to regroup where it is not about wages and salaries, but only about regrouping from industry to industry. This is not the challenge of the future! [[Abg. Obsessive: Easter is already over!]] Rather, it is about creating jobs and apprenticeships, Mr President Vergestnich! The studios in the Section for Commerce are making up 8,000 apprentices, those in the Industry 300 apprentices section. So now you want to regroup. But there is a works council in a company that says the following – you love it, Mr President, when companies say something; now I tell you what a works council says: [[Abg. Just too!]] We as the works council disagree that we are being regrouped. We see a capacity reduction of almost 4 percent due to the falling weekly working time. The rising cost structure is worsening the competitiveness of our company and thus directly endangers jobs. This is irresponsible in our region. [[Abg. Leikam: And this at 11!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: (in the direction of Abg. Well, what do you say?]] That's what it says: We have invested that our company is craftsmanship. [[Abg. Leikam: 14 hours of discussion!]] There can be no artificially created industry behind such a market presence. We lose our credibility with the consumer. That is where a Works Council calls for no change, but the President of the Trade Union, President Vergestnich, wishes a regrouping! Mr President of the Council! I'll bring this up here, because maybe we can do it once. – Don’t smile at it, Mr President. Don't make fun when I say this as a Member of Parliament and an entrepreneur. It's my time I spent working on your mission. [[Abg. May. Stadler: (in the direction of Abg. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Don't smile!]] I should be able to devote this time to my work, also to creating jobs, and it should not be the case that businesses and works councils are not insured! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What we want, Mr President, is to create jobs, also in cooperation with the trade union of private workers, Section for Industry and Industry. I would like to be prepared to enter into discussions as Members of this House. If we can put this into practice here in Parliament, we will not have a problem with the budget in the future. This is because constructive proposals are made, not as inadequate proposals for change as in the apprenticeship package.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e17812	The next speaker is Mr Prinzhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e17833	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I cannot ignore developing a certain sympathy for the Minister of Finance. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Leikam.]] What else is he supposed to do? After 30 years of socialist business policy, what is he supposed to do to continue writing a pleite budget? – In the middle of the legislative period, he cannot leave the job in the middle of the legislative period, after he has just taken over the job as Minister of Finance from the Federal Chancellor. That is impossible, let us be realistic. The opposition is unanimous in the view that this budget has finally been designed on a revenue side. The latest figures, those of the first quarter, have just been presented. Mr Minister, I congratulate you: by 16.5 billion Schilling higher tax revenue! This has to be achieved first: 16.5 billion more revenue! This looks very good, everyone in our company would like to have a tax recovery monopoly – but unfortunately we have no monopoly. I congratulate you, and somehow I envy you! On the other hand, I have to ask you, of course, whether the invoice - if You're thinking about the future of this country – it's really that simple. They say: A high tax rate, a high bureaucracy index, a little lack of investment in the future, research and development has a little bit to do – what to do, you can't have everything! We have a "creative accounting". – For creative accounting, I must tell you that there is an old saying about a creative accountant: Either he ends up in the port or the company in the pleite. In most cases, both are the case. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Minister! I have sympathy for your job. He's really not easy. But read the "Focus of the Economy" in the "New Zurich Newspaper"! That's not our leaf, it's not a liberal postille. Read in it about the costly structural weaknesses, Minister! For example: Around one third of all SMEs who have been seduced by the foreign capital promotion policy today have an equity ratio of 10 percent. The subsidisation of loans et cetera is cited. However, the credit sector continues to suffer from comparatively low profitability after recently successful shoulder closures. The state companies in telecommunications and the electricity industry are moaning at the opening of the market. The political sling of the past is now being exposed under pressure. In the public sector, there is a sustainable control of the expansive costs of the social system... et cetera. Who knows the price...? Eroded system sustainability... – So the "New Zurich newspaper". It's really bitter when the "New Zurich Newspaper" writes something like that! This is much more bitter than when it comes to the opposition politicians you can say: You can do it later if I'm not. - Then we'll have to clean up the dirt! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Minister! The Court of Auditors, too, does not leave a really good hair on it. Structurally, the Court of Auditors report – in Chapter 2.4 – actually reads cruel things. The IMF, in turn, concludes that fiscal consolidation has been achieved to a greater extent by means of tax revenue than by reduction in expenditure. The OECD also says: The Austrian consolidation programme is mainly designed in the short term. – All these are comments from experts, that is not to be shaken. [[The speaker points to a document that he keeps up-to-date.]] That means: The burden of the future, the burden on young people, the uncertainty of pensioners, Mr Minister! In the end, it will continue. Therefore, the politicians have objections, whether it was the honourable Member Peter, who said: a serious budget, haha – perhaps you can also compare us with Greece, as far as we have already come. Compare us with the countries that are exemplary, but not with the final lights in the EU! He is right when he notes that the government debt has grown five times as fast as the economy. You, Mr Minister, always point out proudly how fast the economy is growing. I congratulate you: You're a real growth minister! The government debt has grown five times as fast; that's something I have to tell you! If you compare like those who buy a Chrysler car from Steyr in America and buy the same car in Austria, and if you find that the vehicle in America costs half, then part of this difference naturally goes to the taxes you take. In America, VAT is 6 per cent and in this country 20 per cent. With us, the NOVA will also be added, which will result in a 25 percent higher revenue for you compared to America. By car you can also drive around 4 s, here at 11 s per litre of petrol. The difference will benefit you again. These are actually significant monopolies that you can exploit. In the end, however, no money for tax reforms is left. That's a big thing, I have to tell you, a very thick thing! That is why we have set up our programme for the future of work. We have made our critical comments on the budget, but we have also put forward our reform proposals, as you have remained guilty of them. We have made these proposals, which we have to take into account. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Finally, I would like to say to you: A gift from heaven is given to all good people. I read in the "Press" about a "gift of heaven" in the form of an additional economic growth, which is always said to reduce unemployment in Austria. Nebbich! It does not reduce them, even in Germany, to this realization has now come: There, too, 3 per cent growth is expected for 1999, and this statement is immediately added that unemployment will not decrease. It's exactly the same with us. In the "Press" is under the heading "Gift of Heaven": "The homeworks to be the basis for a sustainable economic upturn are not done." This is what Mr Urschitz writes, not exactly a friend of ours, but after all, I quote: "On the contrary: The work starts first. Countries such as Ireland, Great Britain or Holland have already pre-examinationed us by making economic progress in such a way that there is a fall for the labour market." Such countries, and not Greece! "A bit of "description" by the Euro-patterns" – Mr. Haselsteiner has already recommended this today and has just said that it is to be hoped that this policy will never come to the government; but you can learn something from others – is certainly not a mistake. "To a modern industrialized country belongs more than to hope for impulses from the outside" and, by the way, to leave things to their socialist course. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e17928	Next speaker is Mrs Haidlmayr. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e17949	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! The 1999 budget is really not constructive. Promises for years They hindered people from finally valorizing the care money again – but nothing will happen in this respect in 1999. Minister! You also know that you simply removed the disability allowance for care payers, and this adds to the tax burden which non-inhibited persons also have to bear. You promised us that you would make a change. But nothing like that is planned. Minister! You have increased the prescription fees. In addition, the spa stays were self-contained. The tools were also used with new self-retainers. All these are cuts in the area of people with disabilities, and all these cuts must now bear disabled people. No one asks how it should continue and how disabled people should shape their lives with the many burdens that have occurred to us, especially in the last three to four years. But all this is no longer an issue, but it is on the contrary again being discussed to reduce the care allowance at the top level of care by only granting the care allowance level 7 to those who are completely inability to move, that is to say, no longer able to live at home at all. These people may still want to be granted the care allowance of level 7, but all other people will fall out of the care level 7 if they make new applications. All these are the burdens that no one has talked about today. On the other hand, everyone is afraid that the basic tax will be increased. However, the fact that disabled people and single-schoolers really have to fight for their existence for years is apparently no longer a subject, but you have all come to know it, regardless of how it really is for individual people. Mr Finanzminister! They know that there is still a lot to be done in the public sector in particular. I am thinking, for example, of the disabled. It is only recently that I have received answers to questions about what the Ministries look like with disabled people. I have only recently received the answer to the question, as is the case in the Ministries with the disabled. – The disability settings were not fulfilled by 1,200 jobs in 1997. It would be better to pay to the compensation tax fund instead of recruiting disabled people, because it also costs money. Now I have read – and this has amazed me – that you intend to make available to the Federal Government and the countries, as part of the National Employment Plan, funds of the European Social Fund when they recruit disabled people. . I think this is fatal, because you know as well as I do that, especially in the field of offices and authorities, a disabled person does not have to be employed per 25 employees, but the number is set at 40. And this number is far from fulfilled! It also says in this programme that protected workshops should be expanded instead of integrating disabled people into the labour market. – You know that this does nothing when it comes to the integration of disabled people! You have to be aware that only by means of the self-determination of people with disabilities the possibility of reducing high structural costs in this context is created, radically, because every single home and every single protected workshop that you can block because people are integrated can be saved very, very much money. And not just that: In this way disabled people are offered the opportunity to live really humanely and to enter service under social security law. But that is not the point in your budget at all. On the contrary: In 1999, the National Fund, which was donated with 17 million schilling by 1996, is also being re-written with a single commemorative schilling. You will not solve the problems of the disabled! On the contrary, the problem will become much more acute, and the integration of disabled people remains on the road. Mr Finanzminister! I would like to ask you to look at these areas once again and to take a real look at solutions in the disability field and in the context of the disability adjustment. There are good approaches and good opportunities to really do something adequate with the existing money. You just have to want it! That is why I am trying to ask you to do this and so I will also implement it. I would ask you, in the interests of disabled people in Austria, to take back at least some of the savings measures which have now been very, very seriously affecting disabled people for three years in 1999. For the cost of living for disabled people has not fallen, but has constantly increased, and the struggle for existence is becoming increasingly difficult. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e18011	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is therefore closed. According to § 69 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure, I agree with the draft budget for 1100 and 1100 for the Supplements to the Committee on Budgets. 2. Point Report of the Committee on Immunities on the request of the Vienna National Court of Criminal Matters (9bE Vr 2111/98, Hv 1246/98) for approval of the official persecution of the Member of the National Council Rudolf Parnigoni(1110 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e18051	We'll get to the 2nd. Agenda item. I do not have a wish for oral reporting. I don't have word messages either. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Committee on Immunities, 1110 of the supplements, in which the House is recommended to decide on the following: 1. In the course of the examination of the request of the National Criminal Court ==References== In March 1998, for the approval of Mr Parnigoni's official persecution, he became a member of the European Parliament. 57 para. 3 B-VG notes that there is a link between the criminal offence claimed by the private prosecutor and the political activity of Mr Parnigoni. 2. However, an official persecution of Mr Parnigoni may be approved. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who join this request for approval of the official persecution to give a sign of this. . I note that this request was decided by a majority. The agenda is exhausted. Request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e18097	We are entering the negotiations on the request of Mr Gredler, Mr Wabl and Mr Comrades for the establishment of an investigative committee on the examination of the political responsibility of the Federal Government and the alleged illegal influence of political agents in connection with the investigations on the murders of three Kurds on 13 March. July 1989 and the persecution of three of these highly suspected persons. The application has now been distributed so that a reading is not necessary. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e18151	We are going into the debate. The speaking time is 5 minutes. The first speaker is available for up to 10 minutes if he wishes. Mrs Gredler. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. The statement also applies to first speakers, I apologize. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e18179	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! As usual at a later hour, but more up-to-date than ever, we demand a minority right in Parliament, which is, among other things, common in the German Bundestag, namely that the minority in Parliament has the right to demand committee of inquiry and that this be respected by Parliament and a committee of inquiry is set up. We have not yet achieved this. We have hoped that we will receive support from Mr President-in-Office Kletyl, who has performed as a supercontroller, now that we believe that we want to align ourselves with the achievements of other parliaments, but not even give us the opportunity to have a minority right. Now I come to the request I have made. I would like you from the "South German Newspaper" of 21/22. In March 1998, it was first discussed by the Mykonos Process, because it is now apparent. – That’s what it says, among other things: The reason for this judgment "will go into German legal history and also offers diplomats and contemporary legal fabric. For the first time, it should be noted that one German court is responsible for the conduct of another State for capital crime." It also says: "The massacre was either an act of solitarys" or, as the Mullahs claim, did not have its cause in disagreements of opposition groups among themselves. Rather, the attack has been launched by Iran's leaders." Those are tough words of a German court! This has not yet been the case last year. I would like to continue because the wording in the charge of the German court is dramatic over 395 pages. It's in the South German newspaper: "Your political opponents let them liquidate for the sake of pure control. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. The ‘Mykonos’ judgment is about the present.” Last thing it says: The judges "in their decision-making, minutiously trace the blood trail of the Iranian Killer Command across Europe (from Vienna via Hamburg to Paris). The Court of First Instance concludes that the Iranian leadership had operated with systematic force the ‘disfellowshipping’ oppositional until abroad.’ Ladies and gentlemen! The whole thing would not have gotten this drama if it had not become clear that a misbehavior in Austria had obviously occurred on the occasion of the murders of 13th century. The following is available on July 22, 1989: Mr Kle Stil, then in the foreign office, led to a reduction in the surveillance of the third suspect. As a result, the surveillance was reduced, and the third suspect disappeared! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The soup is too thin, Mrs. Gredler! Drill in teeth, but not in court cases!]] We would like to have a parliamentary investigation into the extent to which political misbehaviour was the reason for the release of the suspects – or whether this misbehavior was simply systemic! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: A matte thing!]] And this right, Mr. Khol, does not consent to the opposition. You should be ashamed of it! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You have an ash cross on your forehead!]] Now I'm coming on – I didn't actually want to bring this, but you're asking it out –: We received a document from the Foreign Policy Council in April. It contains a press release on the journey of the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Rohan, to Tehran in March 1998. In this, it says among other things: "The Secretary-General for Foreign Affairs will also express Austrian interest in the fight against international terrorism, human rights and the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction." However, there is another result in a summary of the talks held in Iran. According to this paper, the Secretary-General said that the "Iran is an important factor in the region". "Austria pursues internal development and greater openness with interest." He has expressed "the hope for an intensification of the relationship and the resurgence of political contacts". He also spoke about "economic cooperation in the tourism sector and in the railway sector". However, he did not speak a word – and this is a document that I did not write, but was written in your own house, in the office of the outside! – on human rights, as announced in the press release, and not a word about Kurden murder! He spoke no word about the fact that the situation will be tightened and not loosened. The mayor of Tehran, who is said to have a "modified" position, was abandoned due to the accusation of corruption. Press freedom was also restricted. No photos of undressed women should be shown. And you know why? – Because of a president and his mistress! I do not mean to say that the Austrian President, who has also shown some misbehavior in this respect, no!, this time I mean the President of the USA, who has obviously caused the fact that women's photographs in Tehran can only be printed in newspapers. That means there is also a restriction on freedom of the press. But then it is said that there is obviously a "reasonable" development in Iran, that one is very happy about it, and that we want to intensify contacts. The ambassadors have returned. Why, no man knows. Why were they there even when they returned silently and quietly? It has also been agreed that high-level contacts will be possible. And we are sending the Secretary-General of the Foreign Office, instead of exercising a little restraint on this issue and, if necessary, actually addressing the points that were obviously not even strangled, namely human rights and the fight against terrorism. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Khol.]] Remember this, Mr. Khol, and please tell your Foreign Minister: If he sends officials, they should act as announced in the press releases! In Iran, human rights are being trampled with feet, and that is daily! And I can't see why our officials there only prove our international contacts! Now is the wrong time! That's a false signal! If your Foreign Minister really respect human rights, he would at least respect a distance in visiting diplomacy!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e18276	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e18298	Mr Khol! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! This was not only a "thin soup", but these statements were immeasurably subjective – and that of a group, ladies and gentlemen, the High House, which always conjures the political style as a sanctified cow – because it sounds like hearing the Liberal Forum – of Austrian domestic politics! [[Call to the liberals: these are the teachers!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today you have used the wording that the ban on concealment in Iran has come because a President with his mistress has provided the reason for the concealment of Iranian women. Then the lady of the Liberal Forum, with the "great" political style, said that this was not meant by the Austrian Federal President, but may also have to be accused of a misbehavior in this regard. – Ladies and gentlemen! That's more than intertwined! It's bad! The private life of the President or of another Austrian does not matter to you at all! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is precisely from the mouth of the representative of a political group who advocates legalizing the marriage of homosexuals in Austria that we should not speak of a misbehavior when someone has marital problems. That's how it looks! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You should not talk about misbehavior when it comes to the President of the Federal Republic and his private life, because that is not a matter of clean and smoothness! Otherwise, I'll tell you a few stories about your party chairmen and their private life when we're talking about misbehavior! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intercom calls at the Liberal Forum.]] What you are offering now is an absolutely bad election finale a day before the final rally of Mrs Heide Schmidt, who has not put up an election campaign! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schaffenrath.]] That is the reality, ladies and gentlemen. That is why we are still trying to adapt the President of the Federal Republic of Germany today. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mrs Gredler! Listen I would ask you to shed crocodile tears by saying that the Federal President had abandoned the Liberal Forum, for he would have had the opportunity to stand up for the right to set up committee of inquiry would have become a minority right! Ladies and gentlemen! On every occasion, Mrs Schmidt has made the intervention of the President of the Federal Republic of Germany into parliamentary events! On every occasion! It has not only made the intervention of the President of the Federal Republic of Germany into parliamentary proceedings, but you yourself have missed it when you were pulled over to the table during the negotiations on the reform of the Rules of Procedure to enforce this very right, ladies and gentlemen. You have sold yourself for free, so to speak, and now you are responsible to the President of the Federal Republic! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schaffenrath.]] It must be brought together once! Mrs Schaffenrath! Explain You're your wife's colleague Gredler! Or didn't you understand? You cannot blame the President of the Federal Government for your political failure! You are responsible for this! Ladies and gentlemen! The scenario was clear: First of all, one wanted to adapt the Federal President with this Ghassemlou murder, so to speak, to salt him a re-candid. That was the first phase because Mrs Schmidt was already playing with the idea that she could become the Federal President. The second phase was a "privileged scandal" at the beginning of the year, when the article on this "privileged scandal" was already printed, when the Federal President did not yet know that a part of the pension payment had landed on his account. – That was the second part of the attempt to get out of the place, because it turned out that Mrs Schmidt remained on the track in all polls. She didn't come from the place. And then the SPÖ found that its own voters are not willing to vote for Mrs Schmidt. Therefore, one had to invent a left pastor or superintendent who plays the left integration figure. It was more than grotesque yesterday, as the two ladies flattered! And so that this lady could run, Mrs Schmidt was still ready to sign for her to bring her to the candidate safely! Ladies and gentlemen! What you have delivered was one of the worst elections that presidential candidates have ever delivered, ladies and gentlemen. You have, in fact, ruined Mrs Schmidt politically. Admit it! Mrs Schmidt has reached a political end, not only since the Lower Austrian country election! You will not be able to falsify this either by trying to adapt the President-in-Office, the head of state, to whom nothing is to be blamed, clean and clear nothing! You can thus not lead your wife Schmidt to a better vote! Your political end has come!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e18385	The next speaker is Mr Wabl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e18407	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Stadler, you just have to change a saying and say: Tell me who you choose – and I'll tell you how your speech will look! [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Level: Simmering against Kapfenberg!]] Mr Stadler! I would like to tell the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, Mr Klestil, that not Mr Khol comes out here or Mr Kostelka comes out, but that you will find out that you will come out to hand over the defender for a president who will certainly receive a gold medal of the blue group in terms of courage. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the Greens, the Liberal Forum and with representatives of the SPÖ]] In view of the courage that Federal President Klestil has so far shown in his term of office, one can really only say: Shut up in front of the blue, hat off! [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Inspector Wabl speaks!]] Mr Stadler! I say just one sentence on this matter with personal matters: President Kle Stil has led an American election campaign with his family. He himself joined the public by means of a magazine to spread his family relations. No one forced him to do so. He himself has waged an election campaign in which he presented to the public that he has a healthy family. For what reason I don't know – probably too long he was in America – he had to announce this to the public. [[Abg. May. Stadler: He has no mistress!]] But let's leave this issue. I do not want to judge or judge this. Let's go over to the Kurdish question: There has been a President here in this House, a President of the National Council who has come into suspicion of having played in an affair and who has publicly announced that a President of this House cannot continue to exercise his office if he is under such a massive attack. That is why he recommended that this House carry out a committee of inquiry. [[Calls and calls between the Liberal Forum, the Greens and the Liberals.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] President Klestil has not done this! Rather, he shuddered for an absolution of Mr. Haider, who was pilgrimd to him and said: Our President is all right, he has a clean white vest, only the opposition wants to adapt him. Ladies and gentlemen! The Salzburger Nachrichten have entitled: "The fragility of the unjust state becomes visible." – President Kle Stil hiding behind this frat! [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: And Wabl finds out!]] Mr. Swimper! You're a... – I'm not saying anything about it now! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] President Kle Stil has not once said a clear sentence in the entire election campaign phase, in which he would have run the risk of somehow triggering a discussion. He obviously learned from this "NEWS" performance, and now he has the FPÖ as an obligation defender! Ladies and gentlemen! President Klestil did not think it necessary to answer in connection with an accusation made by the Green Group that he had withdrawn an official from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and did not pay for damaging the League with a quarter of a million schilling. He did not even think it necessary to give a public opinion on this matter! He's hiding behind his emperor crown! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Maitz.]] Mr Maitz! I know. You would prefer the Principality of Styria with Krainer two, Krainer three, Krainer four, Maitz five! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] Klestil would have liked it too! But I'm telling you: The SPÖ has stopped because it is not able to appoint a candidate. The ÖVP left the unloved child. The FPÖ adopted him. I don't know if this is in the long run in connection with the President of a Republic. But I can tell you: We will address all these questions again after this choice, as always, and there you can say a hundred times: That's election fight! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Maitz.]] Mr Maitz! Luckily there is no "tagespost" because otherwise on the front page would always appear in the style with the emperor crown, and on the left hand he would lead Maitz and on the right hand Stadler!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e18539	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We shall come to the vote on the request by Mr Gredler, Mr Wabl and Mr Comrades for the setting up of an investigation committee. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give this request to Gredler and Wabl for the setting up of a committee of inquiry to express this by a sign. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00115_d7e18575	I can still tell the House that in today's sitting, the self-employed have been brought in applications 740/A to 747/A. Questions 4023/J to 4285/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for tomorrow, Thursday, 9 a.m. The agenda for tomorrow's meeting is set out in the written communication distributed in the room. Today's sitting is closed.
