ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e3710	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to welcome you very warmly and ask you to take the places. I declare 133. Meeting of the National Council for Opened. The official protocols of the 128. Meeting of 16 and 17. June 129. Meeting of 17 March 1990 ==References====External links== Meeting of 18 March 1990 In June, business regulations remained inconvenient and without opposition. They are therefore considered approved. For today's sitting, as prevented, Members of Parliament are reported. Kaipel, Kröll, Wenitsch and Oillinger. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e3747	For today's meeting, the Federal Chancellor's Office on the resolution of the President of the Federal Government concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government has made the following statement: Federal Minister Dr. Werner Fasslevend is represented by Mr. Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein. Mr. Dr. Schüssel will be represented by Mrs. State Secretary Ferrero-Waldner from 3 p.m. Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e3777	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: Equal opportunities for women in Europe First of all, Mrs Hlavac has spoken. As a contributor to the topic of the current hour, she has a speaking time of 10 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e3807	Mr President. Dear Mrs Frauenminister! Thank you, Madam Minister of Education! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Higher noise levels in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] A final document on employment was adopted at the European Council in Cardiff. In particular, the National Action Plans call on Member States to make serious efforts to improve the employability of the active population, in particular the young, the long-term unemployed, as well as women. Future work should focus on improving equal opportunities in order to achieve equality between men and women in all areas of employment policy through mainstreaming. It is particularly stressed that it is necessary to promote family-friendly working hours and forms and to create suitable childcare facilities and leave schemes. The States have now presented their employment action plans, and it is now important to consider how far they are in line with these projects, the importance of creating jobs for women. This week, an informal Council of Ministers will take place in Innsbruck, where for the first time, the Ministers of Labour and Social Affairs will meet together with the Ministers for Equal Treatment. The central issue is also the National Action Plans. I think this is very necessary and important, because it appears that a number of action plans have a clear deficit in the fourth pillar, equal opportunities for women, which should be a very important priority. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign the other day.]] Unfortunately, however, some Member States do not give due attention to the employment of women and to the improvement of their opportunities in the labour market. In particular, there is a need for targeted action for women. Equal opportunities will only be available in the case of participa­tion of supply work, changes in the organisation of work and a corresponding labour market policy. It will also be necessary to ensure that equal pay is actually paid for equivalent work in the area of wage policy, and to pay particular attention to the training of girls. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] However, it will also be necessary to consider the extent to which women are sufficiently involved in the decision-making processes. As a result, there are recommendations to the European Council. I very much hope that this Council meeting in Innsbruck will lead to substantial results, because women's promotion – and this should not be forgotten – is a mission in the European Union, lastly set out in the Treaty of Amsterdam in Article 119, which states, inter alia, that, in order to ensure the full equality of opportunity between men and women in working life, the principle of equal treatment does not prevent Member States from maintaining or deciding specific benefits in order to facilitate the professional activity of the underrepresented sex or to prevent or to compensate for disadvantages in the career. This wording states that measures to promote women are necessary and desirable. This also finalises the discussion that we have held here, whether the measures provided for in the Federal Equal Treatment Act for the promotion of women, which are also provided for in some national laws, are actually constitutional and equality-compliant. You can cut off this discussion. They are constitutional, thanks both to the wording of Article 119 of the EU Treaty and to the provision that we have just recently added to Article 7 of the Federal Constitutional Act. As far as our own, our Austrian National Employment Action Plan is concerned, a catalogue of measures is currently under way. In this context, it will be necessary to allow women in all areas to be encouraged and promoted. We know that the development of women in the labour market is worrying. At the same time, we know that women expect us to give them the opportunity to be employed, to earn their own money, to be independent and to realize themselves in the profession. Women's employment is also of increasing importance in maintaining the high level of our social security system. We will therefore have to pay great attention to the fact that the Women's Action Plan's catalogue of measures does indeed provide sufficient opportunities. Mrs. Federal Minister Hostasch and Mrs. Federal Minister Prammer are very committed to this, and I hope that there will be a success. We will certainly observe this very closely. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The field of training is particularly important. Women are to be encouraged as much as possible in apprenticeships as in continuing training and in training. They should be specifically promoted, and I think that they must also be promoted disproportionately. It is also of great importance to help re-privileged women. In Vienna, a lot is done by the Vienna Workers' Fund, also by the AMS – however, regionally different – and it is important to facilitate the return to work of those women who have children. It would be important for them to be cared for during their leave, that, as soon as it is clear that they will lose their job or are already unemployed, an attempt should be made to find a job or discuss training measures during their leave. Long-term demands that we have not been able to implement so far play a central role in this. This includes, for example, the extension of the retention period to 26 weeks after the leave of Karenz. We think this is a central concern, because if a woman chooses a child, she must have the guarantee that her job is waiting for her to start her job again. Another requirement is the creation of the possibility for parents of infants to change to part-time jobs, but with the right to return to a full-time job. This too is a necessary family-friendly measure that we will definitely continue to pursue. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am very sorry that it has not succeeded in anchoring this already in the National Action Plan, and where these demands are fully in line with the EU's mission to make work organisation and working time more family-friendly. We have tabled proposals for initiative, and we hope that there will be an objective and fair debate on this in autumn. This means that a number of measures are needed to implement the issue of equal opportunities and employment into reality, both at national level with our own action plan and through legislative measures, as I have mentioned them, as well as at European level. There is a need for greater awareness everywhere that measures are necessary to promote women's employment. The informal Council of Ministers, which will take place in Innsbruck, will hopefully provide the necessary impetus, and I hope, Mrs Federal Minister, that substantial results can be achieved at this Council meeting.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e3932	On the issue of the current hour, Mrs. Federal Minister Mag has delivered an opinion. Prammer reported. The speaking time should also not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e3953	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. High house! "Equal opportunities and employment" is, as mentioned above, the topic of the informal Council of Ministers, which will start tomorrow in Innsbruck and where, for the first time in the history of the European Union, the Ministers for Labour and Social Affairs and the Ministers for Gender Equality will meet in order to deal with this issue in detail and, hopefully, to develop strategies. I believe that this is a signal from the Austrian Presidency, and that it will also be understood as a signal accordingly. The fact that the informal Council of Ministers is under this motto of course also has a history, and I would like to start by briefly addressing this history. On the one hand: Under the British Presidency, there has already been an informal meeting of the Ministers for Gender Equality, which was primarily about looking at employment policies in the individual Member States of the European Union and discussing the strategies needed to improve the situation of women in employment, in the workplace. Let me say the following very clearly and clearly: There is no model country in the European Union. From Scandinavia to the south, we find quite good, worth mentioning examples, which other countries should probably take over, but at the same time there are also many obstacles, many obstacles in all these countries. This must be eliminated, since it is necessary to put the lever on. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I am also very pleased that, at the meeting of the Heads of State or Government in Cardiff, it was made clear again and mentioned that more action must be taken to promote equal opportunities and employment and that equality between women and men must be introduced into all employment policies. The theme of gender mainstreaming – as it is called at European level – is essential and important. In all areas of policy, we have had to take into account the fact that there are different types of concern and that the respective measure has to be questioned over and over again on the impact on women. This gender mainstreaming is essential, we also have to drive forward. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I don't want to be unmentioned in order not to make it confusing: Gender mainstreaming does not solve gender equality policy, does not break down women's policy. A gender mainstream is only possible and feasible in compatibility and in cooperation with a highly demanding gender equality and women's policy. Only together can actually move us forward, both together can actually create better situations for women. In the European Union, there has certainly been a great deal of progress in equality policy over the last five years. Let me just remind you: from the White Paper from 1993 to Cardiff, in between, of course, is the employment summit in Luxembourg. I am really pleased that the National Action Plans are in place and that the European Commission is very sensitive to these action plans from the point of view of equal opportunities. The first results are already available, and the Commission has already made initial analyses. Let me mention some of these points in the Commission's analysis, which I also noticed: The gender difference in employment is directly linked to the level of female employment. The lower the female employment rate, the greater is clearly the difference in the employment rate between women and men. This means that an increase in the employment rate can only be achieved by increasing women's employment. That must be clear to us, and that is essential. This means that the objective of the Austrian National Action Plan is only to be achieved by creating jobs for women and thus giving women the possibility of employment. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In the event of an increasing gender gap, the female unemployment rate also increases. That too is to be seen. The lever belongs specifically and specifically to the place where appropriate measures are to be taken to reduce these barriers, such as the framework conditions, the childcare places that are urgently needed. Another example was made by Mrs Hlavac, the possibility of temporary part-time work, with the best possible legal claim and, of course, the right to return to full employment. In addition, many other measures are needed. We must not forget that the qualification is quite essential. Women need the opportunity to obtain appropriate qualifications. We know that many women who are unemployed only have compulsory schooling. For this reason, the perspective of later, lifelong learning in adult education must also be given the appropriate priority. Finally, in the countries with the highest female unemployment, the lowest female employment rates exist. That is why we must draw conclusions from these analyses, as I have said. Of course, there is an above-average number of women employed in traditional professions, and there is also a high income disadvantage in these areas. For this reason, the strategy must also be pursued to in some way open women's doors to other occupations and to motivate them to work in other fields of employment. When it comes to new employment opportunities, new communication and information technologies will prepare new fields. This is about having women with them from the beginning and not possibly opening the door later on. A very important and important issue, which I am very happy to be discussed at the informal Council of Ministers from tomorrow – for the first time within the European Union in such a body, as I would like to say – is the question of the division of supply work. At this point I have said so many times: Those who do not take the issue of the different distribution of supply work seriously must also not take advantage of the fact that it is a serious issue for him that the different incomes are reduced and others more. We must succeed in this resolution. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The main reason for this is that women are disadvantaged on the labour market and are permanently pushed out of the labour market. The strategy can only be to live together at the social level as well as at the private level in a partnership future. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, I am very confident that it will be possible to develop common strategies within the European Union. This will not be made easy for us, because we know the problems in the labour market and also in the general employment situation, and we know that the solutions do not come in half the way. That is why we all have to make only possible efforts and make all possible initiatives. However, I am also convinced that it is going to be better together and that it makes sense, just as it now makes sense in terms of employment policy in general, to discuss the issue of women at European level and find the best possible solutions. But we do not buy freely, quite the contrary, we take the commission home, in Austria to do the best possible for women. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e4059	We are now going into the debate. The speaking time for all other speakers is 5 minutes. It would be nice if the sound level could be slightly lower during the contributions of all speakers. Mrs Mag. Mag has been reported to speak. Gisela Worm.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e4087	Mr President. Dear Federal Ministers! High house! A high point in France – not only because it provides us with wonderful hours and minutes in terms of brilliant football, but also above all because France was the state, which has already succeeded in establishing the Treaties of Rome on the occasion of the founding of the European Economic Community, in establishing the European Economic Community, in establishing equal opportunities for women and men for the first time in the European Union or in the European Economic Community at that time. Ladies and gentlemen! In the implementation one was then a bit sloppy, I would almost say. Five directives and four action programmes were necessary – at present we are in the fourth action programme, which runs from 1996 to 2000 – in order to increase this article 119 – let me put it that way – to help meat. In this regard, I would also like to mention that in the course of time procedures have been initiated against all Member States, because equal treatment has not been implemented in the same way as it has been proposed. The Austrian Minister of Women Barbara Prammer, together with the Minister of Social Affairs Lore Hostasch, wants to place a special emphasis on the policy of so-called gender mainstreaming – it has already been said several times – at tomorrow's informal Council of Ministers of Ministers for Social Affairs and Equal Treatment in Innsbruck – and of course I am very proud of it as a Innsbrucker and Tyrolean. In my opinion, this is also necessary. There is a lot to be done. Given the recent labour market figures, I am glad that the economic research institute is forecast to be higher than expected. On the other hand, as women's unemployment is rising, I think there is a lot to do, because it is still a fact – but I do not want to reduce the earnings of women's organisations, women's lobbys and pressure groups – that women earn at least one third less than men, that the rate of women's unemployment in the EU is higher than that of men, that the proportion of women who do poor pay is between 49 percent and 82% depending on the Member State and that about 28 percent of women work part-time with often poor social security. For the men, this share is – listen and marvel! – but only 4 percent. In addition, about a quarter of all women in the community are housewives. I would like to point out that this has consequences. I do not want to agree with the housewives in any way, but this has consequences in the old age, because it leads to no independent pension scheme resulting from this status. The fact is that the employment rate of women in the EU is far below that of men and that women earn less than men in each Member State. It is always argued that in manual activity men do the harder work, for example at the blast furnace, which is why the difference is somehow natural. However, if you look – this is an interesting number – that, for example, in manual activity, the wage difference is between 15 and 35 percent, but in non-manual activity there is a lot higher, namely, between 30 and 40 percent, and if you know that, on the one hand, education opportunities for women have been improved, on the other hand, the glass ceiling is still there, then you realize that something has to be done in terms of permeability and career opportunities. Now I have arrived at a theme that I like: In Austria, we have succeeded in anchoring the so-called NAP that childcare facilities must be supported accordingly. It is important that childcare, family and profession are compatible. That is the desire of the families, that is the desire of the women and men. There's no social picture at all, that's what you've got to face. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, I would like to say that the Treaty of Amsterdam, which we have decided in the last plenary session and which has also been very criticised, contains a lot for women, which is very good.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e4138	Please do not hesitate to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e4155	I would remind you, for example, that positive discrimination is possible, and I think a lot of what we might still think about it in Austria. As an example, I mention only the promotion of women and the promotion of the parties in the gender relationship.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e4186	Mrs Rosemarie Bauer. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e4210	Mr President. My dear Federal Ministers! High house! It is two points which specifically fill us with hope, namely the tomorrow meeting in Innsbruck, where common strategies are to be discussed, and of course also the Amsterdam Treaty, which my previous speaker mentioned as the final point of her speech, deal with all the possibilities we have to do for women. I believe that the key issues for ensuring the future of women are professional choice, education and training. But above all, we should help young girls and women in particular, or make them aware that, if they want to gain opportunities for their lives, they have to plan their careers, their lives as well as men do, of course, also associated with the hope that it is possible to live their lives the way they want – that is, that family, if they have a central concern for them, also has their place. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This, ladies and gentlemen, which is the compatibility of family and profession, is already the second central point, because at national level we have to solve our own problems. We have improved the accounting of child rearing times in recent years. The main issue now is the infrastructure, i.e. kindergartens, the possibilities for childcare. This central point is reflected in something we urgently need and what I would like to say here, Mrs Federal Minister for Women's Affairs, namely the women's promotion plans. They were in the Committee on 27 May. It is said that this year the year of the women's promotion plans will be the year. I am sorry, Mr President, because I think that these women's promotion plans depend very much on me. The question of childcare is a very central point. Further points are the income of women, the return of women to work – that is, a wide range. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! On the topic of women's promotion plans, it is also appropriate that the Independent Women's Forum – as I do today's press release – has made a press conference entitled "Taten instead of Words". "Taten instead of words" – this has been the occasion for emboldened women of the Austrian People's Party together with Federal Minister Bartenstein in the Federal Committee in 1990 to say: What are we always talking about? Now we have to do something! – In the meantime, they have already published a manual on equal opportunities. This is quite precisely what you want to do after two years of study, namely how these women's promotion plans are to look forward to. We got her! Every year since 1992, there has been a premiere of businesses in Styria, now also in Vienna and Lower Austria. I'm 15 years old. It was invited to such a premise on July, and it is of great interest to look forward to it. [[Abg. May. Chamberlander: Why did you vote against it in the Subcommittee?]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Here's it inside: With the help of a women's promotion plan, a large number of opportunities of employment can be used on a voluntary basis to satisfy the satisfaction of employees and the satisfaction of employees. [[Abg. May. Mr Kammerlander: If you had agreed to the request in committee!]] We have, of course, voted in favour of the proposal, because we are already waiting for the women's promotion plans, Mrs Colleague, because the cornerstones must exist. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I believe that this point is a priority. I'm not afraid of the officials of the Ministries, Mrs. Minister. It very much honors them that they should draw attention again to the fact that the ministers - and above all the ministers of the ÖVP, as I read - are to make a regulation known in the federal law paper on equal treatment law. I think this is an activism, because I think it's going on in the area of the federal government. But thousands of women who work in the private sector need our help, support and initiatives. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Federal Ministers! If the new century – and in that, I believe, we are absolutely all of the same opinion – should be a century of women, then we have to ask ourselves whether we have been driving nationally on the right track, or whether we really do not have to leave some kind of track, and if we have to set the course a little different, so that there really is a positive future for women.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e4273	The next speaker is Mrs Aumayr. Same time of speech.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e4294	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Mrs Rosemarie Bauer! They talked about babysitting again. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: Where did I say that? Listen!]] I must honestly say that your constant demand for the childcare check is almost ridiculous, Mrs Rosemarie Bauer. [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: Listen!]] Request Before Election You will always have the child care check in Upper Austria, in Lower Austria, also here in the High House. If the liberals make a request on this point, then reject it. The game you're playing here is really doubly! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: You must listen!]] Now on the comments by Mrs Hlavac von der SPÖ. Mrs Colleague, you said that women must be encouraged disproportionately. The Minister has also expressed himself in this direction. I now wonder who in the SPÖ actually determines women's policy. Because during the programme discussion in SPÖ, your Federal Managing Director said: Now to the "little-points" to the women. – Mrs Hlavac, you are the "small-points"! [[Abg. May. Stadler: Listen! Listen!]] The women are the "small dots" in the SPÖ! This is confirmed by your Federal Managing Director Rudas! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Listen!]] How should the SPÖ women's policy within the EU be taken seriously if your own Federal Managing Director calls it "small-points"? [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is the Lord Rudas, who has shown the Kostelka!]] The SPÖ women have no voice within their party, because they were quite silent to Federal Managing Director Rudas. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Mrs. Dohnal has already said they're in the front room!]] The SPÖ women are also quite silent when Members in Parliament are insulted and discriminated against by their colleagues. The incidents in the Committee on the Environment clearly confirm this to me. I, too, have had my experiences with it. One has to imagine: The fact that I dared to complain of Mr Doppelmüller on behalf of my colleagues and have won the process has sufficed that the entire SPÖ Group in the Committee on the Environment has not elected me chairman. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Look here! Women's solidarity!]] You have to imagine that! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Democrats are these! That's the good and the tolerant!]] A Member of Parliament insults a colleague in public. As a result, Mr Doppelmüller rejected my offer to apologise. I'm running a trial and winning it. And in response, the entire SPÖ Group, the so-called equal rights party, did not elect me for the chairman. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Where were the women's voices? Where were the voices of women's rights women? Where was the voice of the women's minister? What was the reason for silence? – I can tell you what the reason was: It was just about a freeman. A free parliamentarian can be insulted, one can discriminate, one can declare bird-free. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Let him step back!]] Mr Doppelmüller! You show your colleagues more than a bad style! These aren't coincidences. You're a repeater. It comes to your mind what's inside! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They are likely to have serious problems with women. If you are dealing with like-minded colleagues, I really wonder how you are dealing with women who are subordinated to you. But there is also a little hope for you, Mr President. For with the excuse of Mr Langthaler, you at least show a certain ability to learn, whether you do not want to lose a trial against a colleague for the second time, whether you have become really clear. [[Abg. May. Stadler: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller, just with Abg. May. Frieser speaks) Mrs. Frieser's checking him out right now! She's just making the intelligence test!]] In any case, it is positive if you, Mr Colleague Doppelmüller, change your attitude towards women and men in Parliament, because, as I have said, most of the men in Parliament have proper dealings with us and really do not deserve to be condemned for a few less flat-rate sentences.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e4512	The next speaker is Mrs Dr Schmidt. Same time of speech.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e4533	Mr President. Dear ministers! Ladies and gentlemen. When I listened, I thought: Could it be that the Members of the SPÖ are really in favour of such a distraction maneuver? It is inconceivable for me to be here, appeal to Europe and talk about what is to come out of Innsbruck, without mentioning what is actually going on insanity, discrimination in one's own country! Nor will it be better if Mr Bauer points out that. She just pretends to be in opposition and would demand from others what her party – and probably herself – torpedoed. It seems to me like I'm here at the wrong event! Of course, we are all in favour of women having equal rights in Europe. But the fact that there was a women's popular desire last year, of course, has its cause in that it has become unbearable how discriminated women are in their own country – and specifically discriminated against! It is not a question of saying: Well, the women want to break out of their old role understanding and want a little more than they have had before. - That's not the point! It is about women being badly affected under the same conditions. You know that, and that's where you say great: We need to pay more attention! We have to work hard! Let's wait for what comes out in Innsbruck! – It really can't take people seriously. Why don't you talk about what to do in Austria? We do not need European initiatives to do this! It would be necessary and sufficient if there were Austrian initiatives! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] It is about this actual discrimination, and I think that most of you know all of these figures. But it is obviously necessary to bring them back to mind. It is a reality, if I make the labour market, that women are more often affected by unemployment, for longer periods and in younger years. We all know. It is a reality that, compared to the previous year, the number of unemployed women has increased twice as much as that of men; for women by 3.7 percent, for men by 1.7 percent. In 1997, the unemployment rate in women rose by 3.8%. In comparison, the male was down by 2.3 percent. We know that the male employment rate is far higher than that of women. We know that the employment rate is changing further down. This means that the female employment rate has fallen from 49.4 percent to 48.8 percent – at a time when we are experiencing an increase in other countries. In Denmark, for example, from 1995 to 1996, the female employment rate rose from 57.5% to 68.7%. Don't tell me this is the situation, because the women are the ones who are still taking responsibility for children. It is true that especially those countries where these figures are different from those in which there is a much higher birth rate than Austria. And, of course, this is also related to the childcare offer. What is the point of Mr Bauer here, what should all this do? She should talk to her conservative country leaders in the countries who think it is not necessary at all to install a babysitting offer, since the woman would have a much better place at home anyway, and if there is no appropriate childcare offer, then she will not have anything else left. – That’s the reality! If the National Employment Plan says that we have a deficit of 139 500 kindergartens, that would be bad enough, only everyone knows that not even this number is right, but that other estimates of 170 000 go out. And this is against the background that the kindergartens that we have have have completely impracticable opening hours, and that, although women have been removed part of the karenz period, of which, in particular, single parents are affected, as we know, and that, although we have a lack of part-time offers, there is still a field on which women are more dependent than men. And when I look at the development in Austria – in Austria, colleague Hlavac, and not in Europe! – there is a negative development in relation to the re-entry after the karenz period. Four years ago, every third woman succeeded – difficult enough – and today only every fifth woman succeeds. If that goes on, I don't know where this will lead at all! We don't only have this backlash on the return possibilities, we also have it in the income chart. We know that in 1993/94 – and this is bad enough – women totalled only 69.2 per cent of their income compared to men's income; in 1996 it was only 68.3 per cent. That the formation of the keys is – we all know! I can't hear the word "correct attention" anymore. Do something! It has, of course, increased the educational opportunities for women. But what is public service doing? And both of you, SPÖ and ÖVP, are responsible for taking this into account! Let's not talk about the "glass ceiling" in the private sector! In the public service we have 84 section heads. In the meantime, at least five of them are women. It used to be not a single one, it was only one for a long time. You want to sell that as a success? It's up to you! Don't appeal to Europe constantly! What I don't want to do now is deal with what's going on there.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e4605	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e4627	I'm with you. - We have another speaker. We had a women's people's desire. Nothing was implemented by this women's desire, and you were both responsible for it. Therefore: Not nice words, but deeds are in demand!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e4660	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Kammerlander. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e4681	Mr President. Dear ministers! I would like to continue where my previous speaker has stopped, namely in the Austrian situation. I think it is significant that we have a current hour, in which glorious reference is made to an informal Council of Ministers, but it will probably be kept silent, which has not happened in Austria alone in the last half year, even though there are legal deadlines for it. There has been a report on equal treatment in the private sector, but it has not been treated in a parliamentary way – not in the last half of the year! What is this report worth if we do not treat it in a parliamentary manner if we do not draw conclusions from it, which would actually have to do where the needs are where there is an urgent need for action? But there has been another report for over a year, namely the report on the reduction of women's disadvantages. This is not an essential report, because it is precisely about the evaluation: Where did you manage to reduce disadvantages, where did the sheer open up? – There is no such report at all. He's been out for a year! He's just missing! We are still working on criteria, we are listening to this report. I can only say a lot late, and it does not look like this report will soon be sent to Parliament. A law novel to the law on equal treatment has been promised long ago, actually for a very long time. So to speak, since the predecessor of the predecessor, it is about this so-called large legislative novel. To this day there is not even a template on the table, and I wonder: What's the whole thing? Mrs Federal Minister for Women's Affairs! They've been out of internal policy for half a year! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You have done nothing of what you would have been obliged to report, you have done nothing of what you have promised, such as this great novel of the law on equal treatment. But we are making a current hour and listening to the speeches expressing the joy that there is now also a debate on equal treatment at EU level. But even if we look at the EU level, I ask you: Why have we not adopted at EU level a directive to which we would have been obliged? Why do you have the 3rd? In June 1998, without this directive being transposed, is the directive a matter of parental leave, which concerns the independent right of leave for men? Why Have You didn't do anything? We don't need to look at Innsbruck, we look here! Where are your laws to which you, to whom the Republic of Austria would have been obliged? Where are they? I would like to say a sentence on Mrs Bauer's comments: I really think it is significant that every time you or other EIA women speak here on the subject of women's policy, you will be satisfied with these nice, sluggish actions – I refer to them consciously now – which are certainly important. Whenever it comes to concrete measures – we have had specific requests that have been made to hold what are women-promoting measures in establishments – you do not agree with these requests. Then you don't want to know about it! "Commitments" – this word is foreign to you in women's policy! Obviously one can only interpret the situation in such a way that the EIA and SPÖ are in a mutual path, in which absolutely nothing goes on in women's policy. We agree that it is not only about equal opportunities in education, in training, in the profession, in women's policy, in equal treatment, or also – as it is today – but also about how women can achieve something. There is a request on quotas which we have tabled in Parliament. He was left behind and not treated. However, we also agree that it is also about the same social and social recognition and the same rights when it comes to equal opportunities. We also agree that this House has such a role as a model in terms of equal opportunities. And I don't always see this model character in any way. In this context, I would like to refer once again to the incident in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, even though I would like to mention Mrs Aumayr: It is not the rule that men deal with us women in the House. But it seems to be the rule that certain colleagues can take everything out of here, which, as long as it goes somehow, is quietly tolerated. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Colleppelmüller! I sometimes think: What's worse: What you said to my colleague, Langthaler, or what is the reason for and apologise for this statement? The proverb...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e4752	Please ask for the final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e4767	I am at the end of the sentence. The alleged saying that you have quoted clearly shows what spirit you have or do not have, for this alleged proverb – it is not even a proverb, but a phrase – that you used as an excuse is an extremely sexistic one. And this is particularly disturbing to me: that this sensitivity is obviously not present in this debate.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e4797	Mrs Bundesminister spoke. The clock is set to 5 minutes. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e4819	Mr President. High house! Equality, equal opportunities and equality are important objectives of policy action. To this end, it is necessary to establish framework conditions in Europe and to cooperate internationally. But it is equally necessary to set the right course in your own country. If we really want to achieve equal opportunities and employment for women, we must start with education. The girls have been involved in a resurgence process in education in recent years. In 1970 we had only 34 percent maturants, in 1998 it was already 55 percent. The proportion of women in universities rose from 39 percent to 53 percent. 45 percent of all university graduates are women. Of course, there are also shortcomings. There are women who have little education. In order to address this shortage, we have established programmes in the National Action Plan: It will be possible to re-establish compulsory schooling. We want to motivate the girls to enter non-wife-specific professions. All education measures are designed to ensure that women have a real chance of finding a qualified job. In addition, it must be a matter of policy concern for education policy to change attitudes, especially in men's minds. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] That is why I think it is necessary to take, in all areas – both in the administrative and educational fields – the equality of opportunity to promote girls particularly seriously. Women's promotion plans were adopted at the Federal Ministry of Education and Cultural Affairs on 1.1.1994. We have the 2000 Action Plan, which sets out very specific measures in the field of education to change attitudes. I mean, we're putting signals, too. There are not only five women who are section heads, there are now seven women who are section heads. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: From 84!]] It was also possible for the first time to install a woman as an HTL national school inspector in Tyrol. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] It will for the first time become a Ms. Director of an HTL in Salzburg. We have also appointed for the first time a woman as director of a museum, namely the Theatre Museum. It is my personal concern to fulfil this equal treatment, equality, equal opportunities in all areas of the ministry and in all areas of education. Women's promotion is a real concern. Women's equality must already be firmly anchored in young people's minds. One more thing, ladies and gentlemen: 52 per cent of the electorate are voters, and I believe that we must not be satisfied until 52 per cent of the important positions in all areas of our society are also filled with women. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] To achieve this, there is still much to do for all of us. I think we should try to achieve these objectives together. In any event, the ÖVP will continue to be a strong voice for women's equal rights and equal rights in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e4874	The next speaker is Mrs Silhavy. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e4896	Mr President. Dear Federal Ministers! High house! Mrs Aumayr, I would like to refer to your comments and to Mrs Kammerlander's comments. I agree with you that linguistic discrimination of women helps to consolidate social policy roles. [[Abg. May. Kammerlander: This has been sexist and not specifically discrimination against women!]] It is therefore a task of us women to take action against this linguistic discrimination. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This begins with salon-female hostility, where some men think they are particularly giddy when they give them the flattest women's whites of their own, and it is also about fighting against disagreements that lead to the reaction to humble women in order to agree with them and not to have to deal with them objectively. In this connection, however, I would expect you, Mrs Aumayr, to have a little more sensitivity. Maybe you should first react in your own rows. I would like to remind you of Mr Stadler's enormous speech to Mrs Petrovic. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Maybe you should point this out. If you honestly think so, this would be appropriate. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Aumayr: Address this to your colleagues!]] I think, however, that linguistic discrimination continues, Mrs Aumayr. The question is also going in the direction: How do we react to the fact that women make a professional increase that has not been granted them so far, for example, become the head of state? Are these women then confessing that they are "woman of the country"? Are they "Lord" state captain or "woman" state captain? There's a book I want to put to your heart: "Life is called being free." It clearly states: To make women's access to particularly respected professions invisible in the language means to ignore this access. – I think that is a very essential point that we should all pay attention to. Mrs Bauer! You're asking if we've set the right course. I think the question is justified, but I believe that we could have made this change if we had come to a denominator with the ÖVP on some points of women's popular desire. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am deeply sorry that was not the case. We have set up initiatives, we have made proposals, and we will continue to follow up this issue in this House. You can rely on that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: This is an old hat!]] Mrs Steibl, I am still missing a statement from you as a steward. It's nice if you keep selling "tatens instead of words" here. But I still lack an essential statement on the statements of your President Mühlbacher, who said that many men are more powerful because they have women who do the services at home so that they do not have to do their part at home. That's why he's committed to women's discrimination. I ask you: Where's your positioning? They know very well that women are discriminated against in their working lives because they do housework and reproduction work. Perhaps a few words on Mrs. Kammerlander's and Mrs. Schmidt's comments: It has already been said in the introductory words about the Treaty of Amsterdam and the new possibilities. I had the opportunity to attend a women's conference on employment and equal opportunities a month ago. I think you all have international contacts with each other and therefore all know that we are starting from a very high level in Austria. I am very proud of this high level that we have achieved in Austria. I would like to make another point which has already been cut down by a number of Members today, namely the dealing of male Members with female Members, the handling of the language we have here in the House. You all know that, in a letter to Mrs Langthaler, Mr Doppelmüller has apologized. I think it is a nice compliment of an opposition politician when she writes that she was particularly affected because this level came from a member of a party who has played a major role in the struggle for the dignity and equality of women in her history. They see that this has been recognized, and we will continue to play a major and leading role in women's policy. We should support each other on this issue. – Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e4995	Next speaker is Mrs Edeltraud Gatterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e5019	Mr President. Dear women ministers! The fact that women's policy, which is to be successful, can not only be limited to one's own country, but must also work internationally, has already been recognized by an ÖVP politician, Lola Solar, in 1953. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] She founded the European Women's Union. It was aware that networks are just as important for women as efficient policies are for women in their own country. It has reached its most urgent goal, namely peace for Europe, and we are the first generation of women who do not have to say goodbye to sons in the war. Much has happened, but there is still much to do, and we women really know what we're talking about. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Austrian Women's Union intends to identify cross-border problems, seek solutions and find solutions. I also welcome the fact that the European Women's Union's meeting in Austria, in Velden, will take place and we hope to find new solutions and make proposals there. Ladies and gentlemen! The subject that the Socialist Group has proposed today is very broad. It has not been easy to question and see what actually is the meaning and purpose of this present hour. "Equal opportunities for women in Europe" – does that mean for women in Eastern Europe, that is, for women in the EU? – The fact is that the key economic data show that in many areas, in economic and social terms, women are still disadvantaged, that they still deserve much less than men, that they are the first ones to get problems on the labour market when there are fewer jobs. It is therefore necessary that women's policy is also a fixed agenda item under the Austrian Presidency, in all areas, and not only at tomorrow's conference in Innsbruck, where – and I think this is very positive – women's and social ministers meet for the first time. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We need effective measures and actions. The EU has lived a lot in this context, I believe, but there is still a need for action. I personally wish that we would be even more active in this area, that the EU should become more active. This cannot mean, however, that there is an absolute standstill in women's policy under the EU Presidency in Austria. Here you are, Mrs Minister, twice and several times required this half year! The EU is an opportunity and a challenge for women at the same time. I am very glad that the Amsterdam Treaty once again sets out and calls for the equal opportunities of women and that for the first time, positive discrimination against women is also possible to help them out of their difficult situation. I'm also – the topic is: Equal opportunities for women in Europe – very happy that there has been an equal treatment committee in the Council of Europe since this time. This means that we can discuss the issues of women in the East and in the West together and in greater detail. Desire and reality in women's policy are far apart. Women's problems and women's wishes to policy are similar across national borders. The North-South gap is there, there is also a West-East gap, but the desire to maintain a job, to be well-trained, the compatibility of family and work, the social security for women, a good health system, but also participation move all women and are a driving force for women in politics. It really cannot be that way – as some previous speakers, including the opposition, have already said – that women's policy in Austria is frozen by the Presidency. Although I see approaches to the National Employment Plan, which increases equal opportunities for women, I believe that it is very positive that active labour market policies will help women even better – but we also want to see measures and actions instead of words – this is what Mr Steibl in the Styria brings back again and again. The ÖVP women will not get tired of putting their demands here again and again and trying to find a solution. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Equal pay for equivalent work will only be available if the work is re-evaluated.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e5092	I would ask for the final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e5107	I believe that the issue should not be called equal opportunities for women in Europe, but opportunities for women in Europe. The continent of Europe is finally the only one named after a woman – reason enough for us women and men to fight for this continent.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e5137	The next speaker is Mrs Haller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e5159	Mr President. Ladies ministers! High house! As for my colleague, Mr Gatterer, I should like to ask myself the question of the meaning of this present hour. A current hour normally gives the opposition parties the opportunity to point out current maladministrations, and the government parties the opportunity to sell current successes to the public. Now I have to ask myself: Where are the current successes of SPÖ politicians you want to sell here today? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Where is the success of women's policy, which has dominated SPÖ over the last 20 years? There is no doubt about that. Where have you achieved success in these "small areas" such as the claim "Equal pay for equal work!" or equal rights in the field of social security, better compatibility of family and work, equal opportunities for career opportunities or equal participation of women in public life and politics? The Upper Austrian Women's Commissioner, Lohnegger, said that it was very badly ordered at local level in this regard. The proportion of women in politics in the Upper Austrian municipalities is 12 percent, in the municipal boards 7 percent and only 3 mayors. I have to ask myself why this is so. Did the quota scheme not benefit the SPÖ women either? Did 20 years of SPÖ women's policy not use anything – a women's policy that was still sold under a women's minister Dohnal as "directional in Europe"? You too, Mrs Prammer, are always pleased to point out that women's policy is a domain of social democrats. That's what I'm asking: Where really are the successes that justify this current hour? Or is that what you are doing here just an alibi deal that you want to delegate these "small points", whose implementation you did not make in Austria, to the EU now? – That’s how it seems, and not just in the area of women’s policy! In this context, I do not just remember the colleague Doppelmüller. You certainly have a very difficult time in your own areas, as you have noticed. [[Abg. Silhavy: You too!]] No, we do not have any colleagues who have to vote with physical force, where we have to go out there crying and then be forced to withdraw everything through the press, withdraw something that most of the Members have seen here in plenary. [[Complaints with the liberals]] [[Abg. Silhavy: Neither do we!]] The name is Parnigoni – I don't want to hide it. These are two representatives of your party with whom you seem not to understand. If you can't put such things in your own ranks – and there was no protective aid from the SPÖ women, there was no protection aid from the women's minister – how do you want to make women's policy that is credible? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Or: What has happened after this women's desire, which has included so many points? – Only one you have tried to put into practice. The Constitution enshrined equal rights for women, which cost nothing. All other points would have cost something – either the men or the economy or within the party. That's what you've been kidding about. I believe that you will not succeed in this women's policy. Mrs Hlavac! I guess. You are otherwise very, but today you only need keywords, phrases that we have heard in women's policy for 20 years. The same applies to women's minister Prammer. If she says that she has the hope that the whole thing will improve at EU level now, she agrees that Austrian women's policy has failed. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The Clou is that EU accession has brought us serious disadvantages to women in Austria, disadvantages on the labour market, but also disadvantages from the two savings packages. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] How do you really want to represent credible, ladies Federal Ministers,...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e5230	I would ask for the final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e5246	... – I am in the process of joining the EU in the area of women's policy?
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e5276	The next speaker is Mrs Schaffenrath. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e5297	Mr President. Dear Minister of Women! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that only the title of this current hour, namely 'Equal Opportunities for Women in Europe', is a very clear sign that it is an alibi action that you are trying to divert from the reform stand in Austria today. You can sunk in the presidency, you can try to achieve equal opportunities for all women from Austria, but the fact is that you are still not done with the problems at your own doorstep, that this is a distraction. They would all have had enough opportunity to do something in this area in the context of the women's desire. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] No point in women's desire has actually been implemented. We only have a gay wording in Article 7 of the Federal Constitution, where you all confess once again to equality between men and women. However, you have not yet come far beyond lip confession. We have been discussing for 35 hours in the Subcommittee, but we have no result to show. The result of the women's popular desire is actually an increase of the initiators and initiators and, above all, of all the Signatories. Because the SPÖ is always speaking so strong words on women's issues, I must tell you and the Minister for Women: You must be aware that you are out of power to your coalition partner, that you are in the face of a woman's spokesman, Khol, who sent his voice to the committee, I would like to say, Mr Fekter, because the woman's speaker might have intended a little too far. The woman’s spokesman was rewarded for her retreat with a bouquet of flowers. This fits exactly in the women's image of the ÖVP. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Are you against bouquets of flowers?]] Mrs Fekter! The way you acted was clear. I was just surprised that you had not brought your clubman a swindler. So we really don't need to discuss it anymore. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Don't you think I can think for myself?]] In any case, the Liberals were really active. We have an employment summit for women... – Yes, for charity, Mr Khol. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The flowers were for the Rosemarie Bauer! That's exactly what you're saying! Your speech is full of error!]] In any case, the Liberals – and you should be interested in it now, because there is a need for action – have initiated an employment summit for women running women's projects in Brussels. In any case, this has made one clear... – Mrs Fekter, you have a need for action in women's policy, which you cannot meet, because your women's image is so conservative that you do not continue. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] This employment summit for women running women's projects made the following very clear: While funds are provided by the EU, the private women project managers in Austria suffocate in the Austrian bureaucracy. That's where we need action. We need a better information policy, we need the establishment of central coordination bodies, and above all we need a co-financing fund because women cannot put up with these funds in advance. Financing costs are not recovered and, moreover, the AMS orders are very, very hesitant, because the AMS Fund has already been exploited more or less. I would like to speak very briefly on one point – Mrs Bauer, this also concerns you: We have a national action plan for employment, and if in this the introduction of an audit for a family-friendly working world and the holding of a federal competition for the award of the most family-friendly farm are mentioned, then it is blamable, then it is embarrassing, because we do not need a national action plan. We could discuss measures of the Action Plan, nor is it just described paper, and funding is still in the stars. There is only one concrete post, the 600 million schilling for childcare, and that is like a drop on the hot stone in the face of 170 000 missing places. Minister of Education! I have to say to you again: You have praised the formal qualifications here. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] We have still not done anything in our education system – contrary to your announcements! – which counteracts this gender-specific segmentation in the working world.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e5386	I would ask for the final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e5401	I conclude by saying: And with a budget of not even 2 million schillings, you will not be able to implement your good 99 points in the future, despite your current announcements that this is already the case. My final sentence, Mr President...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e5425	The speaking time is over! [[Abg. Schaffenrath: Then I thank you!]] [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The next speaker is Mrs Petrovic.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e5461	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! Women's policy in Austria, women's policy in Europe – I think that if a federal government remains far behind its own promises in its own country, it will be little credible if it says that it wants to change Europe in the sense of greater equality for women. The points set out in the 1994 and 1996 Coalition Conventions have not been fulfilled, you know: the establishment of women's advisory bodies on the extension of part-time work, the kindergartens. All this has been announced. The National Action Plan lacks any teaching and therefore any opportunity for enforcement. All these words are just pious words, which have not yet followed – and cannot follow them either. But I want to focus on the climate in this country in my remarks. I believe that you, Mrs Federal Minister, and we here in the House will find it difficult to move something in terms of the real equality of women, although your group, the Socialist Group, and this House, as a whole, will tolerate a climate that can only be called sexist. I think it is really sad that a number of speakers have responded here: Yes, it's not all men, it's not the majority of men! I think that the incidents that have already been known are bad enough: starting with the incident which my colleague, Mr Terezija Stoisits, has encountered in connection with a statement by Mr Burgstaller, from the incident involving Mrs Aumayr to the incidents concerning the former Mrs. Schütz and also Mrs. Dr. Schmidt – there have been certain media statements – as well as my colleague Monika Langthaler, and I too have experienced such events. These are really bad incidents. So: If we can now list a number of cases from our memory and as women we are certainly still in a generally privileged situation here – we can defend ourselves, we can also contact the media, we could also produce a little more solidarity – then I wonder how the climate in terms of women's equality is being ordered in our country. I now say something very essential to the Social Democratic Group: I do not think it would have been possible for the Members of the Socialist Group to fall out of the crown today if they had said a little bit worse in connection with the statements of the honourable Member, Mr Doppelmüller, and also with the almost worse kind of apologies: We are sorry; we will work more closely in the future so that this climate in Austria is no longer viable! But of such solidarity there has unfortunately been little to feel. I really wonder why the Social Democratic Party – here and today, here and in the present, and not as far as its role in the past is concerned – is missing. There is an anti-female climate in our country. In the course of social reduction, in the course of the limitation of women's projects and women's rights, everyday sexism has also become saloonable. We know this from the companies, we know about the equal treatment lawyer. In some parts of the advertising industry, this seems to be viable. We from the Greens have tried very hard to achieve a clear response from the women of this House to this clearly sexist advertising, where a stalk collar is drilling through a barbie doll and then it says: "pure intelligence", in a rather ball-horned spelling. [[the speaker holds a sheet of advertising to the height]] We have turned to all the political groups in this House, and it has supported us in a postal fashion with the support of the Members of the Liberal Forum and also with the members of the ÖVP. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: I never saw that!]] We have also addressed the Socialist Group, but we have not received any support from it. [[Abg. Arbitrators: To whom?]] I'll list that to you in detail. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Aha!]] Why can't you even make the willingness to say: We want to do this differently in the future, and we want to finally act together against sexisms! instead of you trying again and again – even now again – to literally turn the spear around? [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] I believe that you are not doing a good job in this respect, both in terms of the position of women and also in terms of women's political rights.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e5545	The current hour has ended with this word message. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e5566	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the written communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e5803	Mr Povysil and Mr Comrades requested, before entering the agenda for today's sitting, that the self-employed motion for a resolution put forward at the same time be treated urgently by Mr Povysil and Mr Comrades on the protection of our children from child abuse and child pornography. Pursuant to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, the urgent request will be called upon to proceed at 3 p.m. Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e5829	I should also like to say that Mrs Schaffenrath has requested that the Committee on Education report on application 438/A (E) concerning the introduction of an Ethics teaching as an optional subject be limited to a period of up to 20 years. ==References== It has been asked by the necessary number of Members to hold a brief debate on this. This debate will take place following the examination of the urgent request. After the end of the debate, the vote on the request for a deadline will also take place. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e5853	The Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr. Schüssel, made a written wish to make a statement on questions of Austrian foreign policy. On this statement, which I have put on the agenda for today's sitting after consulting the President-in-Office, there is also a desire to hold a debate. It is therefore proposed that the debate on the Foreign Minister's statement be held together with the debate on item 2 of today's agenda. In addition, there are proposals to summarise the debates on points 4 to 6, 11 and 12, 13 and 14, 15 to 17, 18 and 19, as well as 20 to 23 respectively. On the other hand, are there any objections? This is not the case. Then we'll do that. I shall now go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e5891	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the design and duration of today's debates as follows: A day-block speaking time of 8 "Vienna hours" has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ 120 minutes, ÖVP 112 minutes, Freedom 104 minutes, Liberal Forum and Greens each 72 minutes. On the other hand, are there any objections? - That's not the case. The House then unanimously agreed to this proposal. 1. Point Declaration by the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs on Austrian Foreign Policy 2. Point Report of the Federal Government's Foreign Policy Committee on the 1997 Foreign Policy Report (III-133/1332 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e5940	We come to points 1 and 2 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. I can now give the floor to Mr Vice-Chancellor and Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs to give his statement. - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e5963	Mr President. High house! One week after the adoption of the EU Presidency by Austria – the Austrian country has the EU Presidency – it is of course close to addressing the European dimension as the most important issue of this foreign policy statement. It must be made clear that Europe is an imperfect and still incomplete project, but one that is on the right track. From Jean Monnet and Robert Schuman, the statement is that Europe cannot be created with a blow or through a uniform construction process, but only through concrete achievements, which in time produce a factual solidarity. In other words, this common Europe is a kind of construction site, a large-scale project that has been working on for over forty years and which still has a lot to do on. However, what has been created so far is considerable enough. The European Economic Community, the Sixth Community of 1958, has started with 6 members, has today 18 and is negotiating with other 11 countries. It has begun with a population of 160 million people, has now grown to over 370 million people, and is approaching the 500 million-million-dollar enlargement candidates. The European Union today has an economic power, a gross domestic product, which is actually six times the size of the European Economic Community of 1958. Ladies and gentlemen! This project is a very successful project, as can be seen from the economic success figures. [[In the case of the ÖVP, the members of the SPÖ and the Agg. Smolle.]] Today, the European Union is indeed a global player, a global player on the world stage: The EU has created the largest single market in the world. At the beginning of 1999, there was a common monetary union. Today's European Union is responsible for one third of world trade, more than the proportion of Americans and more than the share of Japanese. It is also interesting to see the design power within the Union. After all, more than 60 percent of the total exports of EU countries are recorded within the Union, which means that we can actually shape the economy as well. It can be seen that the European Union is also doing a great deal in the humanitarian field: 60 percent of global development aid and 80 percent of international aid to the countries of the former Soviet Union come from the European Union. But another number, so important money, economy and success figures may be, or another comparison balance is much more impressive: According to security experts, more than 200 wars and major armed conflicts have taken place worldwide since 1945. However, in the area of today's European Union, there has been no single shot in these nearly five decades since the founding of the Montan Union, not a single arms move. For this region, this has become the longest continuous period of peace since Roman ancient times. Some quote the Vienna Congress over and over again. The sentence comes from the narrowest advisor of Prince Metternich, so to speak, his chief of the cabinet, a certain friend Friedrich von Gentz – called grey eminence – who wrote the protocols et cetera: "Every political system that could give Europe the hope of saving itself only three or four wars in each century deserves the highest recognition." Today, there is this peace work, and Austria has been wearing it since the 1st century. As the Presidency of the European Union, it is particularly responsible for this Union, for this peace project. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Especially Austria, which is a relatively young member country of the European Union, must be aware that the EU Presidency is an opportunity to think of a larger, more Europe. Today's Europe is greater than the number of Member States of the European Union. I was very concerned that Alois Mock, when we had our treaty under the umbrella and trade in 1994 following the legendary rounds of negotiations, was not just as happy as a snow king that we had managed to do what he could – it is a great merit to put up the persistence in order to achieve this success – but at that hour thought of the countries of Central and Eastern Europe who have a right to join an enlarged Europe once. We Austrians also see this legacy as an obligation, as part of our EU Presidency, to build this large-scale project of Europe into a common European house, which offers a real right of residence to all those who are ready and capable of full partnership. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Of course, this EU Presidency offers a whole series of very unpleasant discussions, but necessary discussions with the great world policy, also with a lot of decoders, in addition to the preparation of the last stage of economic and monetary union, in addition to transatlantic dialogue, economic relations with the Americans, the resumption of a viable dialogue with Turkey, the historic conference with the countries of the southern zone of Africa, the so-called SADC conference, the bilateral EU-Switzerland negotiations, the industrial ministerial conference with the Mediterranean region, the role of the European Union in the peace process in the Middle East, the question of human rights – worldwide, but also in the Mediterranean area, in China, in Tibet –, the question of the Azean Regional Forum, the question of East Timor, which has just become hotly topical these days, the question of relations with Belarus, the re-establishing of a reasonable dialogue between the European Union and Iran and, of course – I am referring to it later – the question of the Balkans. In addition, the real internal major pieces such as employment policy, enlargement, the Agenda 2000 have been added, and we know that much has begun before our presidency and that some will come to a close after that. But it must be our desire to bring Europe forward visibly, but at least to achieve interim results on which further development can be made. That employment policy for Austria will have a clear priority is of course because the employment chapter contained in the Treaty of Amsterdam essentially refers to an Austrian initiative, namely by Vranitzky and I, within the framework of the Intergovernmental Conference. The Austrian Presidency will be responsible for the adoption for the first time of employment guidelines for 1999, which are not only rhetoric but also based on 15 concrete mandatory employment plans of each EU Member State and for the first time on the decision that 11 EU Member States want to start the European currency together. That is to say, we can prove that a strong currency and rehabilitated budget are not just a contradiction to a dedicated employment policy, but, on the contrary, can contribute a great deal to the recovery of job creation, the creation of new jobs and the safeguarding of old jobs. As far as the enlargement of the European Union is concerned, I have already made it seem to me that, in the common view of the Federal Government, it is a European political necessity. EU enlargement, especially those around our neighbours who are likely to be in the very first round, is the best way of helping to break through at European level precisely those issues that are rightly important to Austrian citizens. Those who have more environmental standards across Europe, and not just in Austria, who seriously think it is serious about the fight against organised crime, who are looking at economic stability of a major region, must work for EU enlargement if it is done properly, in order to prevent us from importing uncertainty, instability or emissions from Eastern Europe. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In my tour of the Capitals, i.e. on the tour of the fourteen other EU capitals – Greece is only on the agenda for the day after tomorrow – and in the Central and Eastern European countries I have received great support for the concept and programme of the Austrian EU Presidency. It is clear to me that this EU enlargement round will be difficult because there are large differences in income levels because new institutional challenges are being faced to the European Union itself. Of course, we also have to take the concerns of the population seriously; that is clear. The interesting thing about my visits was – I was in Poland, Estonia, yesterday in Slovenia, and I am now driving to Prague – that her exactly, one to one, is mirror equal, even in the countries of the candidate countries, concerns and fears of the population are felt. It's exactly the same concerns that move us, as for example: What about the jobs? Can't and won't our industry be broken by the high competitive, competitive Western economy from the EU? Do we even have a chance in this competition? The question of identity and the question of sovereignty are, for example, made very clear in Estonia with the comment: Now we have just escaped the one Union – the Soviet Union – but how will it be with the other Union? Of course, these countries know that this is a completely different concept of a Union, a partnership between a Union and not the dependence on Moscow, but there are still concerns and fears. The question of security, the question of the sale of land and land is also audible, and we will do well to listen very sensitively to the mood in the candidate countries and, above all, to send them the right signals, to encourage them to continue on the reform process, because the "Work in Progress" process is very important. If you do wrong, you can do a lot of bad things by raising expectations too high, on the one hand, on the other – which is even worse – discouraging people in these countries, people who have a right to experience strength and strength from the European Union. That is why we intend to start formal accession negotiations at ministerial level with the six priority EU candidate countries by November of this year at least on some of the chapters on which the Commission has already given its opinion. We will then negotiate in Vienna the progress report on the 11 EU candidate countries, knowing that we are on the road quite well. Of course, we know that enlargement also means reforms within the Union. The extension is not free. It would be ridiculous to say that. This is also the reason why we are already so economical about the EU budgets that we are not exploiting the maximum possible 1.27 percent, but – on the contrary! – remain significantly below, in order to make enlargement financially possible. I therefore believe that we are well equipped for internal reforms, the new common agricultural policy, a new structural policy and a new financial constitution, which will ultimately apply until 2006. This is a programme that actually goes beyond two legislative periods. As President of the General Council, I am working closely with the ECOFIN and with the Council of Agriculture Ministers, i.e. with our Chairmans Rudi Edlinger and Willi Molterer, because we want to work together and because we must also pre-examination Austrians that it is possible to unite as different positions as they are sometimes taken by the financial, agricultural or foreign ministers, in order to get as far as possible. I am also convinced that we cannot give up coordination in the new Union. This is also the reason why the General Council is so important in its coordination function. You can be sure that I will also urge my colleagues to adopt each single session of the General Council by the spring of the coming year of Agenda 2000 so that the necessary overall package can be completed under the German Presidency during the current term of office of the European Parliament, i.e. in the spring of next year. The following issues will also have a high priority: first of all, the early implementation of the Treaty of Amsterdam. We will decide on the European representative for the common foreign and security policy in Vienna, which will be a very important step towards a common foreign and security policy. We want to make human rights and, above all, the fight for children's rights a central focus of the Austrian Presidency. I already know that not all of this concerns EU law, but that, together with the 15 Member States of the Union, I am always addressing enlargement candidates, whether at all levels, within the framework of the United Nations, the International Labour Organisation or in other areas, we need to work to fight against the sexual exploitation of children, the fight against child pornography, for example on the Internet, the fight against child soldiers – a particularly unappropriate chapter, associated with the most serious mental damage to adolescents, the fight against drug trafficking, the fight against the exploitation of children. After all, about 250 million children are used in an appalling way every year in the framework of child labour. It is likely that 80 percent of the World Cup football balls sold worldwide are manufactured in child labour. If you bet on it, you will probably win this bet, as bitter as that is. These issues are addressed, and they will also be a very special concern to me in the UN General Assembly. I am pleased that the European Parliament, a few days ago, took on 2nd. In July, a programme of action, which is at least 400 million schilling for the next four years and which is dedicated to precisely these issues, was adopted. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] The British have rightly demanded that Europe and the issues of Europe be brought closer to the citizens in the time of their EU Presidency and that more support be provided on a broad basis. I hope that within the framework of our EU Presidency, there will be special priorities for citizens' proximity, efficiency and democratic legitimacy. These topics are also devoted to the important informal meetings of the Heads of State or Government and the President of the European Commission. This point, of course, is also being prepared together, and we are sure that we can start a discussion which will certainly also have two or three presidents after us. On the grounds of topicality, of course, I am also referring to Kosovo as the most pressing and difficult issue in foreign policy. The latest developments on the ground: At present, there are about 80 000 refugees who have been expelled from their villages, from their homes. There are 15 000 in northern Albania and about 10 000 in Macedonia. There are over 300 officially registered dead, hundreds missing, thousands injured. The situation is actually worse than it was a few weeks ago, the UCK is probably controlling 30 – according to its own data 40 – percent of the entire territory. Thank God in the last three weeks has been such a thing as an international effort to satisfy, to reduce tension – I myself was the first EU foreign minister in Belgrade and Pristina. It has begun with the deployment of Russia, which in the contact group has very much insisted that before a military action, once again all possibilities of diplomatic, political action should be explored. I appreciate this meeting of Yelzin and Miloševic on 16 February. June, quite critical, because it does not correspond to 100 percent of what we wanted from the international community: in the withdrawal of the special police, which is the worst at all there, the army retreats to the normal, planned locations to create a climate, an atmosphere in which a peaceful conversation is possible at all. – That has not been fulfilled. Things I've been asking for, like Holbrooke, Afanashevski and others, are slow now. According to the International Red Cross, the ICRC and the High Representative of the UNHCR, that is, the Refugee Aid Agency, now have access to the region. There is access for diplomats. You know that we have launched our own observer mission, a Kosovo Observer mission, which does not run under its own special concept, but works on the increase of our ambassadors. Yesterday, the first visit – a three-hour visit – took place in a particular region. This is the first visible beginning of a permanent international presence in Kosovo. It has succeeded in integrating all three important partners, the European Union, the Americans and the Russians, into the common peace effort. We therefore, of course, support the Russians' commitment and, of course, in full knowledge of what the Americans are doing, special ambassador Holbrooke, the way forward. As EU Council President, we are fully integrated into the Contact Group, which has overall taxation for all things. It has de facto become the central Euroatlantic Coordination Forum. It seems important to me – and this was done yesterday – that Yugoslavia has sent its own delegation to the OSCE to Vienna. I also had the opportunity to discuss this last week with Foreign Minister Geremek, the President-in-Office of the OSCE. The OSCE could actually play a key role in conflict-satisfaction. Yesterday, the Yugoslavs offered an observer mission to the OSCE as a member of the OSCE before the official admission of Yugoslavia as a member of the OSCE without a condition – I have here the report. I would respond with caution to this because I believe that the involvement of Yugoslavia in the OSCE context in particular gives the opportunity to actually allow a longer-term mission in the region. The pressure on Belgrade must be maintained, this is clear. Therefore, absolutely a yes to the sanctions that were possible in the United States and the European Union. Do not forget, of course, that these sanctions have been effective. As a result of the investment stop, there is currently no international money going to Serbia or Yugoslavia, which naturally narrows the economic margin and could also create pressure in the medium term towards a peaceful solution. I also believe that we need an international presence outside Kosovo in Macedonia – UNPREDEP – and a new mission in Albania. I believe that we must be directly present in the region. The OSCE idea could bring about a sustainable balance. I believe that this example of Kosovo's conflict shows that all Europeans plus Americans and Russians are demanding a whole new quality of solidarity. Today, the security of Europe and all Europeans can no longer be effectively guaranteed in the sole way, but only in the European context, in the interplay of UN, European Union, OSCE and, of course, NATO. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] It is precisely this example that the transatlantic structures, of course, are of particular importance. I think you will be indispensable for a very long time. If we believe in a European Union that really deserves this name, we are also called upon to actively develop the Union's common foreign and security policy in the spirit of European solidarity, up to those prospects of a common defence, which are expressly addressed in the Treaty of Amsterdam and shared by Austria. This is only the first step, but for our credibility as the Presidency's leading country of the Union, I believe it was very important – and I really want to thank you for this – that we have carried along the new security policy developments contained in this contract without reservation before the Presidency was taken over, I believe, over 70 percent of the House's approval. I want the High House to be willing, even before the 1st. To approve the Treaty of Amsterdam on July and to adopt the necessary constitutional accompanying measures, expressly thank you. I would like to stress that the next six months' European political dialogue with the High House, the European Parliament, as well as the Austrian National and Federal Council, will have a very central role to play. As we deal with the challenges of the Presidency, the importance of our country in the Union and its neighbours in Central and Eastern Europe can be very crucial in the long run. With good reason, Parliament is therefore getting as much comprehensive information as possible about our work in the Presidency. At the same time, however, we should be aware that it is a task of superior national importance, whose success should be at the heart of all Austrians, regardless of the respective party membership. Let us therefore consider this first EU Presidency of a new Member State, the first presidency of Austria as a common Austrian concern for which we want to work in our respective fields of activity and in the context of international contacts on all sides of this House. I am happy to be ready for such cooperation for my part.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e6179	I would like to thank Mr Vice-Chancellor for the explanation. We are now going into the debate on this, which is being held together with the debate on item 2. The first speaker was Mr Dr. Haider. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e6206	Mrs. State Secretary! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Austria has taken over the Presidency in the EU. Mr Vice-Chancellor spoke in his capacity as EU Council President, and we also wish him much success from the perspective of the freedom of opposition for the task assigned to him. We note, however, that the liberals naturally expect a foreign minister and vice-channer who speaks in front of the Austrian Parliament to have a clear position on the Austrian positions and on Austrian interests and not only here presents us with a heated programme of his work within the European Union. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It must be made clear that the interests of Austria must be linked to the EU Presidency. For if you are already talking about building a common house in Europe, in which everyone should feel comfortable, especially the Eastern European neighbouring countries – this may be a beautiful picture, which Helmut Kohl also likes to use; it is not that original – then the Austrians should feel comfortable in it. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: That is of course!]] But what you've done here is more about a delogger's note for the Austrians when it happens that you're going to have a corresponding... [[Objection to the ÖVP.]] It is a communication message when it is said that unemployment is not a problem! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have experienced it You promised us 50 000 jobs before joining the EU, and today the newspapers are writing that what Mr Vice-Chancellor personally promised did not arrive. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: We have the lowest unemployment from all over Europe!]] [[Abg. May. Mühlbachler: Even better!]] They have told us that we must go into the EU so that we can better represent our interests. However, you can read in the daily newspapers that Switzerland, who is not a member of the EU, has now concluded a contract, which means that Switzerland will be able to observe the free movement of persons from 2003 or 2004 on its own, while allowing for the free movement of persons to take effect only from 2012. They are pushing towards the EU's eastern enlargement, although you know that if we do it too quickly and unpreparedly, it means that 150 000 additional cheap workers from the Eastern European sector want to work alone on the Austrian labour market – and this in view of rising unemployment, given the great problems we have in Austria! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Mühlbachler: That's all wrong!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Your programmes have not been very successful so far. Take a look at the latest unemployment statistics. Burgenland is a Objective 1 area, and huge amounts of funding from the EU go to Burgenland. And what is the highest rate of increase in unemployment this month? – 12.8 percent increase unemployment in Burgenland! The new production of lyocell, which you have built there with 10 million schilling per job for 120 workers, is in fact already argued. You destroyed 500 jobs in Upper Austria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Kiss: These are loud raubersg’s layers!]] – If this is the preparation for EU enlargement, then, ladies and gentlemen, it will be dangerous! But there is no consensus in the government on this. I would like to give this to Mr Vice-Chancellor. In an interview with Mr. Bundeskanzler Klima on the topic of EU Presidency under the title "From Manager to the Stateman" he is addressed to the EU Easter enlargement, and there he speaks quite differently from you! He says he sees EU enlargement as a threat to jobs. He has recently been to Ukraine, a country with 50 million inhabitants, many of whom live in poverty and hopelessness. One should consider, says climate, that from Vienna the Ukraine lies closer than Bregenz, the capital of Vorarlberg. So many hundreds of thousands of border soldiers, iron curtains, barbed wire and tretmines could not be used to stop refugees from Ukraine and other Eastern European states, he says. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's incredible!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The President of the EU, Federal Chancellor Viktor Klima, speaks at the same time as you, Mr Vice-Chancellor Schüssel, say that EU Easter enlargement is an advantage for Austria, in connection with the enlargement of the East, of the need to strain barbed wires, to set up trammines to prevent refugee flows! You must agree on what policy is now in place: that of Mr Klima or that of Mr Vice-Chancellor Schüssel! - That's the point! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The fact that you do not have the honesty to do so can be seen by reporting on the debates on the EU programme of the Federal Government. A news magazine, which is very close to the Raiffeisen Association and will therefore not write anything against agriculture, says that Mr Molterer and Mr Finanzminister Edlinger did not make a table presentation until shortly before the adoption of the EU programme of the Austrian Federal Government, so to speak, because they wanted to prevent the people from learning that parts of the EU funds which have so far been transferred to the pots of agriculture should be disbursed from the structurally weak areas in the course of the enlargement of the East. [[Abg. Schwarzböck: This is the next number!]] That's the reality! Mr Schwarzböck finds it crazy when his farmers "go ahead of the dogs"! That's a "fine" thing! The "Agenda 2000" is a "total" thing: minus 20 to 30 percent in prices and less promotion! Bravo, Member of the European Parliament, you have been 'violent' if you believe that it will be possible to succeed in Austria! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer.]] We believe that it is necessary for Mr Vice-Chancellor to promote the enlargement of the East. This is his job as EU Chairman. But we also want to note that this should not be done so indiscriminately. I'd love to hear from you once: What transitional periods do you plan? If Switzerland, as a non-member country, receives a transitional period of nearly 15 years for the opening of free movement to the EU, I wonder how the Secretary of State in the Committee on Foreign Affairs can say: Not more than ten years The transitional period will come into question! – You know very well that we don’t. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] Anyone who knows the scale of income differences with our neighbouring countries with which we are historically connected knows that within this short period of time we will not create this transformation. That's what we want to tell you! The transformation into five or ten years is not taking place. However, they want to have taken up Hungary already in 2006. That won't be possible. Because if you need a skilled worker in Hungary or in the Czech Republic today, he costs you about 4 300 s, but in Austria you hire the same skilled worker, so he costs you 20 000 S gross. So you have to explain who will then keep the job! These are the concerns we are expressing in this regard. That is why you do not need to get excited if we are to criticise an undifferentiated presentation of the Eastern enlargement policy here. It is not possible to build a common house based on the fact that the former inhabitants of Austria are being deported. There can't be that! I'm sure the liberals won't be there. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr. Vice-Chancellor! With all the appreciation of your activities that you place around the world: You can't compensate for this by saying: Well, we're already setting up a border country program. This border country programme has already been abandoned by the Commissioner responsible. She said it wasn't happening. I just need to look at the letter from Mr Fischler, Mr Corrado Pirzio-Biroli, to the Commissioner responsible for the border country programme, as requested by the Heads of State. In this letter it says: I will leave it to your assessment. – That means: Do what you want with the letter, Commissioner, essentially, we have it on. It can be calculated, therefore, that all these explanations, such as: We will prepare Austria well!, We will have a border country promotion programme!, Agriculture will not suffer!, as long as not be credible until the hard facts speak about it and the money is on the table you promised us. Because accession to the EU has not been achieved. You still owe us that. Neither the jobs nor the money have come as you promised! Mr. Vice-Chancellor said in the "Small Newspaper": No, we don't need a net contribution reduction, we don't pay so much! Mr Klima and the Minister for Finance In the meantime: We're paying too much! When we called for the liberals in 1996: If we are negotiating a reduction in net contributions because we pay too much to Brussels and the money in Austria for our employment policy, for a tax reform, for the recovery of the middle class!, you have answered us that this is technically impracticable. Now, there. Mr Kohl in Germany, so to speak, breaks the ice, the Austrians become courageous at once. But they should be independent, having the courage to represent Austrian interests on their own! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We therefore appeal to you, Mr Vice-Chancellor: You should not forget Austrian interests during this EU Presidency! You are constantly told that you should represent only EU interests during the time of this Presidency in the EU. That's not true at all! Margaret Thatcher has negotiated a net contribution reduction during her presidency. However, the Secretary of State tells us in the Committee that during the period of the EU Presidency of Austria, there will be no active contribution to a net contribution reduction. Well, what are you doing? Thatcher took 30 percent down, she said: I for my money back!, and it has worked – to this day! And the Danes have enforced their opting out in different areas, they have executed it and have not done bad with it – even during the Presidency's time! That is why we expect this from an Austrian government – in the face of all international engagement, with everything you need to regulate as a foreign minister, right into Kosovo. While you should not be too many illusions in this respect, when you were with Mr Miloševic, you treated him kindly, but three hours later he continued his ethnic cleansing in Kosovo. I don't think that's the people you're gonna get into the OSCE right now and you should say to them: We thank you for liquidating people, for which your members may become members in another international organization! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There can only be the tough measure of the sanction, and that will not go without NATO and without the Atlantic Alliance partners. But despite all that you can't solve on your own, one will have to be in the foreground: Your willingness, during this period, not to forget the word "Austria", the Austrian interests and the concerns of your own people, who are directly responsible for you, even here in front of Parliament!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e6397	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 10 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e6419	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! This first statement by the President of the General Council of the European Union in an Austrian Parliament fills me and my group with great joy. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] It was a long way from 1918 to 1998. In 1918, what remained was Austria, according to the famous word of Clemenceau: L’Autriche, c’est ce qui reste! Today, Austria is President of the European Union and fully entitled in the Presidency of the Council; a state which bears responsibility in Europe, is respected and very successful! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The Presidency is for us, ladies and gentlemen, a task and responsibility; a responsibility that we must fulfil. The enlargement of the European Union, as expressed by the Holy Father in his message to the Court of Justice, when he spoke of the "two lungs of Europe", is a task which we will carry out with great responsibility. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hans Helmut Moser.]] Ukraine, ladies and gentlemen, is not included in this enlargement, and the question of speed and transitional periods will determine the enlargement candidates themselves, our neighbours with whom we have lived for 500 years under a common roof. As soon as they are mature in Europe, they are welcome! [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr Gredler.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We will support the Federal Government's projects, as defined by the Federal Government's Presidency's programme, by strength and initiative from the Austrian National Council. We are now about to complete economic and monetary union, and we have taken the next step in the Treaty of Amsterdam, the step towards the political union. And that's good. I am glad that we, that is to say, the National and Federal Councils, have passed the Constitutional Act on the Treaty of Amsterdam, which paves the way for European security policy to enter into European defence. There the European Union's merger with the Western European Union is planned, thus providing a clear perspective for this House to give constitutional approval in the foreseeable future, sooner or later. This European peace order is another task. After the economic and monetary union for the political Union, the European peace order is the main task we now have to work on. And we should guard against illusions and errors and make an honest policy. It is an illusion to believe that there is still neutrality, as we decided in 1955, the classical neutrality. In 1954 the classical neutrality – to be read in every textbook of international law – was understood to have been excluded from the UN accession of a neutral. - We've joined. 1957 said the same classical international law textbook: A neutral cannot take part in force by the United Nations. – We cooperated in such forced measures, the classical neutrality had ended. Even in 1990, it would not have been possible to contribute to economic sanctions against a legal breaker, if imposed by the UN, because classical neutrality did not do so at the time. – Of course, we have given overflight rights, we have enabled arms transport, tank transport through Austria, and we have, of course, fully participated in economic sanctions. [[Abg. Scheibner: And now?]] All this clearly shows that today the neutrality of 1955 is quite different from that of then, a differentiated neutrality. And we have long replaced, within the United Nations, the abandonment of neutrality with participation in solidarity. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] It requires honesty that we tell our fellow citizens. The Amsterdam Treaty is only the application of the same principle on a European scale, which we are doing worldwide: practice solidarity against right-wing criminals, women rapists, child killers. Amsterdam makes it possible for the competent bodies, the competent institutions of the Republic, to decide that we are also exercising solidarity there. And we from the People's Party believe that this differentiated neutrality must be clearly presented to our fellow citizens. The old, classical neutrality is indeed in the tabernacle, it stands in the Treasury of the Republic; we can admire it there. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Cap.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: So it's in the tabnacle!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We must also be honest with NATO. Here is presented by some a doll, a alliance, a military alliance, a war organ. In reality, the Members who were there last week have been able to convince themselves of this – it is an organisation of crisis management, an organisation of crisis prevention. And I still keep it with Prince Eugen: Si fish pacem, para bellum. – If you want peace, you have to pursue a policy of strength, so I want to translate in a sense and in a contemporary way. That's why the vice chancellor could say: In 50 years there have been 200 wars in the world, but not one on our continent. I think that is a peace balance that we can support. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It would also be an illusion, it would be unfair to say: Let us wait for a European organization. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, do you really believe that in view of all that was invested in the United States of America, Canada, the other NATO members in building the strongest infrastructure for crisis management, Europe should now also use trillions of dollars to make a parallel action? Such parallel actions – who has read Musil's "man without characteristics" – have never been successful. We should also be honest about our way into security policy, ladies and gentlemen. It will not be the case that NATO joins Austria. [[Abg. Jung: Don't tell the Chancellor, your coalition partner, not us!]] What else does it mean when decisive politicians say that NATO should do what Austria has observed so far, that it has no obligation to assist, and NATO should refrain from the effective means? That's dishonest. If we want to participate in the European peace order, such as the European Union, the UN, NATO, the OSCE, then we should not be brillianced by ignorance, but by expertise. It is not NATO that will join Austria, but we will have to make the relevant decisions – we need to talk about it and in this respect we need to reach consensus within the major government parties. Ladies and gentlemen! Honesty is required, also honesty to the national defense. If we want to stay alone, we have to equip our army accordingly. [[Abg. Scheibner: We are now alone! What have you done in the last 40 years?]] And if we want to join NATO or participate in the "Partnership for Peace" Plus, we need to reorganise our army accordingly and support Minister Fassleven not only theoretically, but also practically. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Young: But you too in the ÖVP!]] Ladies and gentlemen! With the EU Presidency and economic and monetary union, we are on a very good path. Austria has found its place in Europe and in the world. We have become a democratic, wealthy, peace-loving, solidarity-loving country. However, we still have a house task to solve: We will have to continue to discuss the issue of the European peace order and our relationship with NATO. We will not be able to spare those who are uncomfortable about facing their policies with reality. We will have to talk about NATO, because anyone who wants peace cannot escape this discussion.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e6559	The next item is Mrs Gredler's speech. She wants to get along with a 10 minute time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e6581	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased, Mr Federal Minister, that you are present at least during the debate on the foreign policy report your House has published. Unfortunately, you have not been able to join the committee. I hope, however, for the future, that you are very interested in a parliamentary debate on your own activity not only in the plenary, but also in the Committee and therefore consider your presence as necessary in the present case. Federal Minister! Obviously, you need the EU Presidency to understand what tasks a foreign minister has to perform. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: That's childish! That's ridiculous!]] I remember very well that last year reactions from the Foreign Minister always came only after there was an opinion either by the Council or by Foreign Minister Kinkel. I know that the situation has improved slightly, because you yourself are now a member of the European Council and have become President-in-Office of the Council. However, it would have been nice if you had continued or revived the historical development of Austrian foreign policy, namely foreign policy as an independent task. However, they have let them fall asleep in favour of a hopefully positive development in Europe, a common security and foreign policy. We do not currently have a common foreign policy or a common security policy in Europe. This is an objective which we hope will soon be achieved, so that the accusation I am now addressing you, namely that you are not actually a foreign politician, but only a politician who occasionally deals with foreign policy, no longer needs to be maintained. That is what I am getting to the fore of this foreign policy report. Her deputy, the Secretary of State, has stated in the Committee on Foreign Affairs that the preface is always the personal opinion. Only: A personal opinion, which should largely reflect the position of the Federal Government, is certainly not to be found in this preface. They carry out in relation to NATO: The European Union and NATO are complementary forms of expression. Federal Minister! Faith You really are saying that we would have waited so long in connection with Yugoslavia if there had been the same solidarity and values. – The fact that the development was not so far advanced at that time was a reason for the delay! Another point is that the return of the new democracies to the common Europe will not be completed until these states have heard both organizations fully. – Mr Foreign Minister! I ask you: Is this presentation really the opinion of the Federal Government or only that of the ÖVP and the ÖVP chairman? [[Vice chancellor Dr. Schüssel: This is my foreword!]] I am aware that is your opinion. But this book, Mr. Federal Minister, does not remain in Austria. It includes the position represented by the Austrian Foreign Minister in the world, and can be found in all American research institutions and in all universities of the world! [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: That's good!]] Anyone who reads this preface is convinced that you represent the agreed opinion of Austria. I have nothing against it, if you once show some punctual differences, but not on such serious issues as the Austrian security policy, which has not been debated at all, as the SPÖ refuses to hold an open debate. We should discuss this! We should discuss NATO, but we should also discuss other security systems that it is necessary to build up, especially the WEU! It takes imagination, courage and courage to debate it with other partners in Europe! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] You obviously don't have this courage and courage. You feel more comfortable if you can be embedded in existing structures and see your security in them, so to speak. That's a shame! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The final reason why NATO has proved to be an indispensable backbone of a functioning security structure in addressing this security-political challenge is that Austria has neither a backbone nor a safety structure. If that is the basic analysis, I do not understand why, Mr Schieder, you simply abstain from the discussion. [[Abg. Arbitrators: I do not withdraw! I've been reported next word!]] Or Mr Schüssel on the government bank is not right. The current situation is, in any case, unbearable, and I ask you to take this issue offensively for the benefit of the necessary security policy debate. However, they are missing independent initiatives in many areas. I hope that we will have a positive outcome in the negotiations currently taking place with the International Criminal Court in Rome and that we will not be blocked by France or China, which, of course, do not want independence and control as much as possible. Mr. Khol! You said: L’Autriche, c’est ce qui reste! I'll tell you: L’Autriche, ça m’interest. – That might be the more correct statement in terms of foreign policy. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I quoted Clemenceau!]] You quote Clemenceau, I quote Gredler. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I don't have the self-confidence you have!]] I do not have the impression, Mr President, that your group is trying to find a common basis in terms of foreign policy, as it used to be in the Usus House. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That was possible with your father!]] Mr Bundeskanzler has explained via media that he is willing to agree to the opposition parties on the subjects of the Presidency during the Presidency. So far, I haven't heard of it! Should I run for the Chancellor of the Federal Republic? I thought you wanted to debate this with us! When to Do You do? [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The main committee! Already several times in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection.]] The last meeting of the main committee has just been cancelled. Don't come with me something that doesn't happen! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Already several times! Several times!]] I would like to say to Mr Haider's attack on Agenda 2000 that the Agenda 2000 will not solve our problems until the year 2000, because the problems in agriculture – and that is the point that has been tailored – will be solved in the framework of the WTO negotiations to be concluded by the next year, that is, before the Agenda 2000 agreement. This is the real key to a global common platform for agriculture, and I therefore believe that it is not currently about the agenda, but rather that we should get more involved in the WTO negotiations and review the positions of Austria there. Mr Haider also claimed that enlargement – my colleague Smolle will discuss enlargement in detail – would lead to a disaster, as so many workers in Austria will be looking for a job and so on. I can only say that the financial framework under discussion, from 2000 to 2006, also includes discussing the 1.27 percent of GDP. I do not think that this value is too sacrosan, because I am convinced that enlargement costs, but also benefits both sides. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] We're in a mill-on-mill-to-position. Both sides will win. This is made much too clear. The Freedom Party is always just afraid of it. It is not true that we will have an army of unemployed people when the countries of the first round of enlargement are ready to be integrated into the European Union. These countries will then have the strength to solve a lot of problems, as their economic development is going in a very positive direction. In my opinion, therefore, we should not attack the Federal Government because it did not renegotiate the financial contribution to be made by an existing treaty in the past year. It is clear that now – and Mr Kohl has said that – the financial framework programme for the next millennium is being discussed, and that is why the negotiations are starting again. Clearly, this has been avoided by the colleagues of the FPÖ. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I would like to draw some points from the EU Presidency's programme so that it does not happen so often that someone does not miss out on something, by drawing up the draft of the 5th century. Compare with the programme now under consideration. For example, in the design there was still talk of the "safering" of higher environmental standards, and in the present paper there is only a bit of "construction". Instead of "increasing the role of pioneers in global environmental protection", only "strengthening" is mentioned. Furthermore, we will now be "to seek a smooth transition from the Maastricht Treaty to the Treaty of Amsterdam" instead of completing the "preparation work for the entry into force of the Treaty of Amsterdam". In the area of data protection regulations, the work in the new paper must be "pre-pend" instead of "closure". – In this context, of course, it must be mentioned that there should also be provisions for telephone surveillance in the Convention on Legal Assistance. This is not exactly a positive situation for the citizens. It is particularly strange that the objective of harmonising tax policy is simply not found in the "Economic and Financial Affairs" chapter. – This is a pity, as harmonisation of tax policy would be a useful objective. In the area of migration there is also a lot to do with us! For example, we want to take away fingerprints against asylum seekers! – Are all who come to our country, criminals? Why should one take away fingerprints from them? [[Abg. Young: That's what the Americans do! Other countries too!]] I wish you never to get into the situation of leaving your home country because you are no longer sure of your life, and the first thing that happens to you in the host country is that you are treated like a criminal. [[Abg. Boy: You can have my fingerprints!]] That's embarrassing, and we shouldn't let that happen! [[Acclaim at the Liberal Forum and Abg. May. Posch.]] One point which is not in the foreground of the discussions, but which is very important to me, is that circumcision should become an asylum ground within the European Union. In one country, namely Canada, this is already accepted. It is obvious that in America there are also discussions in progress to accept this. I would like to see this kind of torture of women coming to a consensus and those women who are responsible for the integration of women and their fruitful development, namely women ministers or women ministers for equal treatment, perhaps already being encouraged in Innsbruck to set up this initiative and present it to the Ministers for the Interior. Finally, I would like to read one more request which results from the fact that there has been no report in the House on the Cardiff summit; a situation which I think is very unfortunate. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] It has only been possible, after asking and begging, to raise a statement by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany on Cardiff in the Foreign Policy Council before a tiny group of people. It cannot be Parliamentary use that we do not receive a decent report and have no opportunity to debate it with the government. That's why I read to you: [[Quoted print version removed]] Do you know where my information comes from? - From the Germans! Mr Kohl and Mr Kinkel were prepared to debate the results in the German Parliament. This is a bad testimonie for Austria! If you agree with our proposal, we could have a good discussion about Europe from the next summit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e6834	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Gredler is sufficiently supported. It is included in the negotiations. This is what Mr Arbitrator has to say. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e6858	Mr President. Foreign Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Khol has given rise to a debate on NATO and on security policy, and we must assume that we did not want to hold this debate or lead to a greater degree. Mr Khol! The problem is that a debate is only conducted honestly if it is conducted by both with a certain will. Furthermore, a debate on something which also concerns the Constitution should not result in the debate being used in itself to be a bit of eraser rubber, corrective paint and tip-ex for the Constitution itself or laws. Of course, we are ready for every debate. But to hold a debate cannot automatically mean that a law in its validity has already been called into question. [[Abg. Young: You've hollowed out before!]] There must be agreement on this. The picture of NATO, which cannot join Austria, is true, but it is also true that the reverse picture, which could even be seen with a person as a cartoon in a newspaper, is that the Foreign Minister, the Minister for Defence or the Clubman cannot personally join NATO. Such a step must be taken by the majority in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: This has never been disputed, Mr. Cot!]] I too have become the single line mentioned so often in the last few weeks and months. But a single line must mean that, as long as there is a debate on a new line, of course the existing and constitutionally founded line still applies. The more clarity and the less ambiguity there is – as at times with the Minister of Defence – the easier we will find an open and meaningful debate. I would also like to say that it might be very good if Mr Klubobmann Khol stayed with the pictures, because with the quotations he has his difficulties. I don't know if Prince Eugen spoke Latin. The quote "si vis pacem," is certainly not from him, for it is from Vegetius, 4. A century after Christ, as can be seen in every bookman, Mr. Deputies! - Of course! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: But it was said by the Prince Eugen of Maria Theresia!]] Everyone may quote a statement, but even if he has said so, it is not from him, Mr Deputies. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I'm glad you know better!]] [[Abg. Young: Watch out for Latin lessons!]] With regard to the question of neutrality, I did not like some formulations, we are not so far apart in content. Of course it is: The more systems of security and intervention in the world and in Europe are formed, the lower the scope of neutrality. There are already the UN and the OSCE, and if something similar is developing in the EU, then the rest is neutrality. Although it is an important, an existing remnant, the area of application has become smaller. In itself, it has not become unnecessary because there are still cases in which it may be necessary. But it is a desirable process that the State community tends to act as a neutral and thereby loses neutrality. This means that principles are applied by the State community in politics – and that is desirable! Especially for Neutrals, this is desirable. I would just like to say to the Amsterdam Treaty that the merger of the WEU with the EU does not make us a major break. As far back as 1992, Delors has already clarified the difference: In the WEU as in NATO, a state is obliged to help another state in the event of an attack. In the case of merger, the aid from one State to another in the event of an attack will be converted into the aid of a state for the whole. An attack on Belgium is therefore not seen as an attack on Belgium, to which Austria must help, but an attack on every EU state is an attack on the EU as a whole and hence on the other countries. All of them, therefore, use the right to self-defense. The EU tends to develop so closely that we Social Democrats will of course have no problems with this. In the Assistance Pact, in the Treaty for Inter-States, we see the problem. However, there is none if the Community is developing in this way. We also want the operations covered by the relevant bodies. The EU can make use of it, NATO can make it, everyone can do it, but on a global scale this is to be covered by UN decisions, on a large European scale by the OSCE or also by UN decisions, and the more it concerns the area of the EU itself, of course also through EU decisions. We do not want to be fought on the basis of EU decisions in Africa. That's not a mandate that's enough for us. In this case, we want the world community, the UN itself, to take a decision on the implementation of such a commitment. I would also like to point out that the Presidency will, of course, also address the issue of closeness to citizens, democratisation and the opportunities for people to participate in the EU. It is true that we still have to think a lot about these points. I do not think we should go into disposing of bureaucracy and the Commission and renationalising everything. I don't think that's the solution. The solution, I believe, is that the democratic legitimacy of these institutions will be strengthened, that work will be more transparent and controllable, as well as that of the citizens of the States, and that their opportunities to influence it will be strengthened. All that is proposed in this direction is to be discussed openly, such as the Delors proposal to elect the President of the Commission – as in the national field to the President of the Federal Republic of Germany – in a popular election throughout Europe. Whether that is feasible in detail or not, this is a consideration that goes in the right direction. How do I strengthen the legitimacy, how do I strengthen citizens' participation? – This is also a question that must rightly be considered in every country. How is Parliament's participation stronger? How can national parliaments be more involved? So the question: How can we further develop COSAC? What instrument will be set up for those countries of Eastern Europe who will be standing outside for longer periods, which will not be included in the first reception shift, which will have to wait 10, 15, 20 years? How will their societies be able to maintain their contacts? Should this really be limited, for 20 years, to a bilateral Commission of the European Parliament with this country? It is important to consider how to create better instruments, from means of transmission via satellites to possibilities to bring things from national parliaments to the European Parliament. There is a need to develop a number of things that bring life to the EU, to shape it closely. Austria should also make a contribution to this, because this will be the challenge: not to reverse integration, but to make it so, so as to change the citizens, the people concerned, who can play a greater role and thus find themselves in it.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e6961	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Kammerlander. Do you want me to stop for 10 minutes? - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e6983	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Federal Minister, you are taking the opportunity to give a speech on the Presidency in the context of the debate on the foreign policy report. I find that legitimate, correct and interesting. However, it does not mean - and I would like to make this clear - that you are developing a special closeness to the Members or to the debate with the Members or to the involvement of Members' opinions on any issues of foreign policy. I would like to remind you: When it came to the Treaty of Amsterdam, you were not in Parliament. It was also not the chancellor in Parliament, at that time he sent the Art State Secretary. There are also other opportunities that we could list, where we would have liked to discuss with you, especially as President-in-Office of the Council, also in preparation for this half-year. This has not been possible for us, and I would like to hold it here in advance. Why? . Because I feel a lot important, for example, that not only as President-in-Office of the Council, but also as the Federal Government as a whole has caused it to spread security rather than security with the preparation for the Presidency of the Council. With completely different reports on day-to-day policy, with completely different reports on major EU projects, with different opinions – opinions, not just nuances – you have provided a picture in the Austrian public that makes any clarity missing. We can start with the enlargement of the EU. It is one of your priorities, and I welcome it. It is also one of your priorities in this foreign policy report. With this uncertainty, which the Austrian Federal Government is constantly signaling to the outside, you open the populist critics – we have heard the clubman of FPÖ today – the Drüberhauern, the superficial, dangerous sage door and gate, and you do not leave any room for a well-founded discussion. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Right arguments!]] Why? – It doesn't surprise me. They're for Easter expansion. This is the largest project, the largest project of the Austrian Federal Government. Some say this: fast; some say it: slow; some say it: stupid – I have heard it too. This alone signals a range under which the individual citizen, the individual citizen, can actually not imagine anything. But not enough with it. They open a discussion on the conditions of this Easter enlargement, which are seen completely differently by the members of this Federal Government. One begins with a debate on the net payers, the other begins with a debate on whether monetary union Member States should also receive funds from the Cohesion Fund, and the third begins a debate on Schengen and on the fact that all the candidate countries should even join Schengen before they even consider joining the Union. That's not all, we know. It's going on even further. I could quote to you almost any Minister, from every minister, any comment on Easter enlargement that signals something else. All of this gives the public a picture where no one knows each other, and you actually only reap one: Unbelief, absolute disbelief when it comes to Easter enlargement! Austria has promised to become a lawyer for the neighbouring countries with its accession to the Union. And what do you signal out there? What do you signal to Europe? – A completely undecided attitude. Once you say that the neighbouring countries should be able to join as quickly as possible. Today I read in the newspaper that Slovenia should be preferred. - That's what I see. [[Vice Chancellor Dr. Schüssel: I didn't talk about "favorable"!]] It is all economic data that speaks of social development. There's something else about setting standards. [[Vice chancellor Dr. Schüssel: Differentiate!]] I think it is right that we should distinguish between countries, even if you have not said "privilegedly" now. This would allow for a meaningful debate, but you do not allow it in advance because you, as a federal government and as individual ministers, are constantly satisfied with and sending out keywords. Then there is the union, which warns against the labour-seeking, willing people, against the migration of work and paints images on the wall without discriminating, without concreteizing, without saying which countries it might be dealing with, even without pointing out that we already have a good part of it today. The crux and the cracking point is that we have a good part of the problems and a large part of the profits. But it is not possible to have a discussion about it because, and I am quite sure you will not take parliamentarianism so seriously that we, whether in the Committee on Foreign Affairs or in the Committee on Foreign Affairs or in whatever committee, can really discuss it calmly, and above all, because you are constantly providing an image of dissension to the outside world. In addition – and I think this is quite remarkable – we have an institution in this Parliament, which is actually thought to be able to deal very well with what is going on at the level of the European Union, to express its views, an institution which has been "retired" to a ritual, namely the main committee, an institution which is seeking its own and which you – including the government parties in this House – do not take seriously in any way. Here a ritual is done, because it must be because one has at some point decided, without any meaning or content. Let us continue on this issue of uncertainty that you are radiating. The next priority in your foreign policy report is European security architecture. We've known the discussion for a long time. We know the different opinions of your ministers, which may also reflect the contradiction between ÖVP and SPÖ. But I would have thought that it would have to be possible to present a single picture in the face of a Presidency – if it were laborious, but not a single one. Today, however, the Klubobmann's statements reflected exactly what has accompanied us all the time, namely a variety of ways of interpretation. You, Mr. Klubobmann, as a constitutional juror, create new concepts of "classical neutrality" and "different neutrality" and clearly forget that the law mentions the ever-increasing neutrality. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: And international judges!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Mrs. Kammerlander! This is a concept of neutrality! Switzerland had a differentiated neutrality!]] That's a difference to what you say. We can discuss the fact that the requirements in Europe have changed, we can also discuss how security architecture should look, but we remain on the ground of the law! You who always preach the Constitutional Arch, but obviously drink water and not what you preach... [[Cheerfulness and intermediate calls.]] Wine's drinking, it doesn't matter. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Dr. Khol.]] It doesn't matter what the saying is. But obviously stay. You are not within the "Constitutional Arch" you preach, otherwise you would discuss from this point of view. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Mrs. Kammerlander, I'll stay serious!]] What's happened since then? – There was a constitutional change, there is now an Article 23f. We already have, in fact, already a participation in war-preparing cases, so to speak. - I call it that. [[Abg. Arbitrators shake the head.]] I call it that! Yeah, just shake your head. This is unpleasant to you, Mr Arbitrator, because you have participated. [[Abg. Arbitrators: No, I don't shake him because it's unpleasant to me, but it's wrong!]] It's not wrong. You can interpret it like that. [[Abg. Arbitrators: No! You can interpret it like that, but it's wrong!]] They are making a request to Kosovo today – only as an example. As I see it, you are making a request to Kosovo with the EIA and the Liberals. I wonder because there is one of the demands for the short-term end of the crisis: The preparations for peacekeeping and humanitarian measures and the willingness to take peace-making measures of the European or international community. [[Abg. Hans Helmut Moser: All options are open, Mrs. Kammerlander!]] I miss the concreteness we have been talking about in committee, the concreteization of which the Secretary of State has even assumed. The Secretary of State said in the Committee: Without the UN Security Council decision, we will not intervene and we will not participate, that is the Austrian position. Write it in with the necessary clarity! [[Abg. Arbitrators: This is not the world post club!]] This is exactly my accusation to the Federal Government and to the coalition parties: I miss the clarity of the words! What you are doing, and what you have already done, is that you are unbelievable at European level, unbelievable when it comes to your position in relation to the enlargement of the East, I am not credible when it comes to your position in European security policy, especially at a time when you are to exercise the Presidency. Foreign Minister! I have long known the debate on the prefaces in the foreign policy reports. Of course, these prefaces are your opinion, I know, just, Mr Foreign Minister, you are not anyone. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] This is not the opinion of anyone, but it is the opinion of the Foreign Minister, nor of the current President-in-Office. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Yes!]] This is political, and that is not something, but it is foreign policy, written foreign policy. But then you do not always distance yourself from it when we refer to it when we say that this reflects the Austrian attitude. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: No one is distanced!]] When we say that reflects the Austrian attitude, you always say: No, that's just the preface, that's my very personal opinion! [[Vice Chancellor Dr. Schüssel: I stand for every word!]] As Foreign Minister, as Vice-President, as President-in-Office of the Council, what else do you want to list? – have [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Vice Chancellor, ÖVP Partyman!]] It is not a personal opinion that we could perceive as being differentiated, because, above all, the preface to a foreign policy report reflects the opinion of the Federal Government, the opinion of Austria in an international context. I can only join him, I think it's interesting what's in there. We have also discussed this in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. I find this interesting, namely the focus not only on NATO, but also the equation of EU enlargement with NATO enlargement, to the rate from the "home return" of the new democracies, that it will only be completed when states in both organisations are fully entitled. I think this is an interesting aspect in Austrian foreign policy, and these sentences are worth being discussed, and the consequences that are indicated here or there are worth discussing, for example, in a framework that draws them closer to the Austrian people. But you obviously can't, for this you save yourself at a summit close to the citizens – as if this was a matter of close proximity to the citizens! It is, of course, about democratic structures that are not present. It is about co-determination rights of the European Parliament, but it is not about closeness to citizens. Don't blur the terms, and don't try to push out a manco, namely that in Europe, of course, it is also the European Parliament – and above all the European Parliament! – granting the corresponding co-determination rights. Finally, let me say the following: As far as I am concerned about the adoption of this Presidency is concerned, you do not have a clear picture of Europe, no matter where it is concerned, and that you are not worthy of starting this Presidency with an unbelievable status, with the various statements and messages you have made as the Federal Government.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e7237	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). You have requested a voluntary time limit of 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e7258	Ladies and gentlemen! Last week we received many guests from Brussels in Vienna – with music, with food and drink, as a sign of a good hospitality – and the next day we sobered our work – that was true: with the visit of the Foreign Minister in Slovenia, continued in Prague, Warsaw and the Baltic countries. You knew very soberly: What happens in our surroundings will always be the most important. Neighbourhood policy was already a good instrument of foreign policy during the cold war – not because we loved ourselves, on the contrary. We were democracies, and on the other side of the Iron Curtain was a criminal system. But it was about questions of life and survival. We should now continue to pursue a European foreign policy in the form of a neighbourhood policy. I think it is a merit if Austrian experience is also brought into European experience and interests. Whether or not the burdens of the communist system will be overcome soon or not, the stability of these countries will determine, in part, our stability. That is why, I believe, the question of enlargement is not only a central question, but also a positive question with regard to all the difficulties that exist, of course. Let me ask you a question that would not have been difficult! But we tend to exaggerate and be pessimistic. When we remember that today the European Union, which is taking further action, is dealing with national borders, the borders of the European Union, when a country like Austria is doing this, with the situation in the Middle East, with a permanent crisis, with the situation of the southern EU countries located in the Mediterranean and with the situation of Arab countries located on the southern coast, with regard to the relationship with the United States, with Canada as part of a security partnership, with Russia and, of course, with the countries that are members of the Community of Independent States, we recognize that all the neighbourhood regions of the EU are. This is the corresponding to the Austrian neighbourhood policy at the time: today's European neighbourhood policy. Hiezu has brought a lot of things into Foreign Minister Schüssel. Kinkel and the French Foreign Minister were not allowed to go to Pristina. But his authority has been accepted. When he was at Miloševic, they said: Do not question the use of international bodies! Today, it is obvious that a number of international bodies, including the Troika, are being used to look at Pristina and its surroundings to see what is happening there in human rights violations. I congratulate you, because this is your success, Mr Minister, and I really congratulate you on this step-by-step approach. That's exactly what you quoted from Jean Monnet: The European Union can only be drawn up in small steps, occasionally laborious, not in a large draft. A new constitution, a constitutional assembly will be decided, and then there is a new Europe – certainly not! We must make this effort, and I believe that the objective is worth putting into this effort. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] This is in no way contrary to the globalisation I have repeatedly been dealing with. I too have said after accession to the European Union: The main issue now is to focus on Asia from relations with the Pacific region. Despite the current growth crisis, this area remains an important sector. We should be able to solve this through focus and commitment. Ladies and gentlemen! A country like Austria was one of the weakest countries 50 years ago, a country like Austria was considered not viable in 1945 to 1947. At the preparatory conference for the Marshall Plan creation – I mentioned it – it said: There is no end time at which Austria could receive itself. This was included in an official statistics. Austria then became independent and today is a country discussing the net contribution, i.e. whether we pay too much or not. I think we can be optimistic. Of course, the opposition will call on the government to make things more precise, to provide better information. It will paint just as many things too black as of course some government spokespersons will paint something too beautiful. But let us show that historical experience that we have shown so often on important questions, in which there were differences in detail. Let us show that when it comes to the country, its interests and Europe, it is commonplace, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Tomorrow the Federal President is praised. I am convinced that, in view of the broad nomination from the Austrian population and given its great experience and clear positions, it will make an important contribution, particularly in terms of integration and security policy, to the proper way in foreign policy. I am optimistic despite all the difficulties.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e7330	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e7351	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In his speech, Mr Khol very often took the word "honestly" into his mouth. I think that this is a dangerous threat when Mr Khol speaks of honesty in the security policy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kukacka.]] Mr Kukacka! If, like a good opposition speaker, honourable Member Khol says that we should finally do more for the defence of the state, I ask Mr Khol who has been responsible for this place and also for the budgetary negotiations over the last 11 years. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Do you not know that we are not ruling alone?]] It calls for open discussion and also for decisions on security policy and membership of NATO. That is why I ask myself, Mr Kukacka: Who has been responsible for the external office for the last 11 years? Wasn't that your group? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Make a difference once!]] Your group has the responsibility for these two important security areas, and you have made no further progress for eleven years, on the contrary: The federal army is in front of the dogs. It is in a state that has never been in the Second Republic. And in security policy, Austria slid from one blamage to another. Foreign Minister! You are almost whining us in your preface to your personal opinion. This is quite clear, Mr Foreign Minister, but a personal opinion has not lost anything in a foreign policy report. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Mühlbachler]] We would like to know where your clear prospects in security policy are. The four-and-a-half-page report on security policy shows how little you have to do about this. That's very poor. You continue to make yourself important everywhere, and we are involved in all international operations. Now you even plan with eight men – you have to imagine that! – to join a Albania maneuver, and this eight men will then receive eight adjutants who are responsible for their supply. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Mühlbachler]] You will then make a nice contribution to international security in Kosovo to me this eight man. But on the other hand, your ministry refuses over-flying permits for maneuvers in this area, although you always demand that NATO be finally operational. Ladies and gentlemen! Foreign Minister! One Blamage hunts the other in security policy. We need not lose any more word about these strange statements by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, which sets out conditions that have already been fulfilled anyway. All this is ridiculous. On the one hand, you make fun of the country, on the other hand you want to celebrate big as European President. Create Finally, you are the prerequisites for clear decisions, for open discussion and, ultimately, for intensive dialogue with the population! Let the people vote on this important issue of security policy too! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In this context, I put forward the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! Parliament can decide. I hope you do. Foreign Minister! I shall now come to a point which I have even taken up in this foreign policy report, in contrast to the foreign policy reports for which the former Foreign Minister Mock was responsible. We do not find any activities against the Czech Republic or Slovenia that call for the abolition of the injustices we have so often discussed. In the Czech legal system, Beneš decrees and the Amnesty Act remain in force, which have been the legal basis for the expulsion of over 3 million people, the legal basis for 241 000 civilian deaths and the legal basis for 250,000 prisoners of war murdered. Foreign Minister! We would expect from you – and so many members of the South German population and their descendants expect this – that you will finally ensure that this group of people finally meets justice 50 years after the end of the war. Make This is a condition and a principle of your negotiations with these countries. Don't keep silent about this injustice! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It can't be that in the 20th exit. The European Parliament has also expressed its concern at the fact that it has not yet been able to take part in the debate on this subject.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e7462	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Scheibner has been submitted in accordance with the rules of procedure, has been sufficiently supported and is included in the negotiations. The next speaker was Mr. Dr. Cap. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e7486	High house! I think that the debate on our role and our understanding of ourselves in Europe suffers a little from the fact that we constantly mix Austrian interests with almost pathological self-fixing. We always think about ourselves and about the few problems we have. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] For a long time, this has nothing to do with not also representing Austrian interests in Europe and defining what the Austrian role is in the final effect. That's why my plea: In addition to the mere question of the need for enlargement – and then there are differentiated views on the conditions under which all this should take place – the whole thing should be included in a project, in a European project for which Austria is proposing, and in that way the Austrian proposal will be discussed. We should be offensive. It should not just be a group thinking about wage dumping and threatening another by the fact that there are thousands of people on the march and who have long wanted to cross the border, so that this always becomes a umbilical view, always only becomes an internal issue and ultimately does not go beyond. Again: That would be a representative of Austrian interests. The institutional reform must also go beyond the position, I do not want to lose the Commissioner, I would like to have a weighting on the votes so that Austria can vote. I must develop a concept that ensures that – if the case is set, it really comes to this enlargement, and it will become more and more – remains operational and functional. To this end, I must work on a model that goes far beyond your scepticism, Mr Deputies of the FPÖ, a model that we see as a part of Europe in which we have a specific role to play. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Graf]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé:... You should let foreigners thin at the border!]] On the question of security policy, I do not entirely share the view of Mr Khol, who said here: "Si vis pacem, para bellum." This has actually been the principle of the old NATO. If you had asked me as someone who was allowed to consume Greek in school, I would have recommended "panta rhei". This is actually the slogan that is worth quoting in relation to NATO and the security architecture and in relation to neutrality than the adequate, also more powerful quote from the treasure chest of our gymnastic training. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Both!]] My appeal to the Foreign Minister is therefore that initiatives be launched to make Austria an element to consider its proposals. Now on foreign culture policy: I would like to say that it would be time to consider, in the parliamentary framework, a survey – you too will come around, you will probably be as informed as we are – in which we discuss the question of coordination, the operational budgets, the dialogue and the objectives of the activities of the cultural institutions at all. Many believe that it would be like trying to do justice to the museums. It is necessary to check if this is possible. You regret that you have too little money to take initiatives. There would be a wide range of courses that go beyond the mere maintenance of language courses, lectures and the provision of one exhibition or another. One could also bring much more of its own cultural identity. This would also be a part of the fulfilment of our role in Europe, which must go far beyond that, simply to ensure that we have more or less attractive institutions in attractive places, which keep the Austrian – whatever that may be – high. Foreign Minister! I would call for a parliamentary survey on foreign culture policy to be carried out, to discuss a kind of political zero budgeting and to reflect on new ways and objectives, and perhaps to think about how to mobilise resources so that we can do more. This would also help to make Austria and Austria more aware of its foreign interests.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e7550	The next speaker is Mr Smolle. Please, honourable Member. You don't want a time limit other than the business regulations? – 8 to 9 minutes I can't set, we don't have intermediate sizes. [[Abg. Smolle: 8 to 9 minutes!]] [[General hustle and bustle.]] I'll set you up for 9 minutes, deputies. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e7586	That is very kind, Mr President. – Spoštovani gospod predsednik! Visoki Dom! Gospod Minister! High house! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: She doesn't understand otherwise!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Today, we have again been shown the disunity of the government parties. The only one that exists here is to refresh secondary education and to confirm each other in the case of quotations. Ladies and gentlemen! But we are on a too serious issue, as if we were to talk about quotations with each other. For years, the enlargement of the EU was an Austrian foreign policy horse, it was a political orientation of the two government parties, but since the time this issue has become serious, there has been a far-reaching decline in the pace. Ladies and gentlemen! This is not understandable, since we know that enlargement of the East must be a very central issue, a very central political but also a security policy issue. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I do not understand in this context the very conservative attitude of the Austrian Trade Union Confederation. Horror scenarios are conjured up by hundreds of thousands of jobseekers from these countries, according to the motto: Let's paint the fear on the wall, and then we'll be afraid! These are methods that do not represent a serious policy. If you look at the situation in the EU candidate countries, you will find that the governments there are themselves trying to keep their important and highly qualified workers in the country. In other words, it is by no means to talk about the use of migration. This proves not least the accession of Ireland, but Portugal and Spain are examples of this. There have been 12 years of enlargement, and after six years it has been said that they do not make sense, and they have been abolished. In Vienna, too, Polish Foreign Minister Geremek has declared that they need their own good work and they do not assume that masses will migrate. – This is an inseparable policy, so to speak, a two-handed policy. On the one hand, we are trying to send as much money out of the EU as possible – perhaps this is a method, we are painting a great horror scenario – and on the other hand we are committed to enlargement. In this regard, you need to get together and have a clear opinion. I also believe that there should not be any blockage of the countries. It is quite clear that there are countries that will make it faster, and there are countries that will need longer. We should be aware, however, that if we open up the possibility of accession to the countries, we will also speed up the reform projects in these countries. That means that it only goes hand in hand and not so that one hand does not know what the other does. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] But I speak clearly against any kind of conditions. These are populist approaches, which we always find at the FPÖ. In general, I believe that the FPÖ has adopted policy as a whole, but especially European policy. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Now you are finally on your favorite theme! Finally!]] This is where populism continues, which you also carry out on all other issues. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: I've been waiting for it!]] Bringing serious political projects You don't think it's about any sloppy reasons, maybe we'll find some voters who come across these little things, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Tossing of dirt!]] Federal Minister! It is also – I would like to say quite clearly – an honest information for the applicants for accession. This must differ considerably from Austrian EU information. It is important to draw attention to both the problems and the difficulties and the conditions. It is not only EU Europe that can be promised as a paradise. In this respect, you still have a lot to do. However, I also believe that we must not forget the many small and larger conflicts in the context of the whole of Europe. To a very large extent, Mr Moser will still comment, but I am thinking specifically of the question of Greece-Turkey-Cyprus. Federal Minister! From your mouth I should like to hear the clear statement that you are opposed to Greece's being able to impose any conditions which would prevent all applicants from being admitted if the Greek Cypriot delegation were not recognized as the only representative. You have to say a clear no to that. It is not a question of a country extolling Europe. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If we are already on this issue, you will also allow me to make some comments on the very large-scale conflict in Turkey. As Europeans, we cannot close our eyes to human rights violations in Turkey, which also wants to become a member. We are dealing with all blatant human rights violations. We have to do with the fact that people who are committed to human rights, such as Akin Birdal, are a representative of a human rights organisation in Turkey, who is particularly committed to the rights of the Kurds and who have been injured in a shooting attack, who are subjected to pressure and violence. We can't close our eyes before that. If Europe says that human rights are indivisible, then they are also indivisible for Turkey, indivisible for the Turks in Cyprus, indivisible for the Turks in Greece, indivisible but also for the Kurds in Turkey. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Finally, allow me to comment on a particular problem, namely European People's Rights. As you know, today, together with the Greens, I hope, with the support of the other political groups, a request for the revision of Article 19 of the basic law will be made. I would ask you to look closely at this request, and I call on you, and above all, to ask the two government parties, but also the FPÖ, to come with us so that we can create a good new Austrian people's rights. This is supposed to be a good basis. Because if we have ordered the house ourselves, we are able to be a model for Europe, but first we have to do the homework, we have to order our own house as it should be. Federal Minister! I am convinced that you are of my opinion that it will be necessary to create a clear European conflict resolution tool and not always to find an ad hoc method. At present, we are neither in the Kosovo question nor in the Cyprus question, nor in other matters in a position to elucidate these conflicts by means of a clear conflict resolution curriculum, neither before they become militaryly relevant. This is an unacceptable failure, a clear violation of human rights and the rights of the people of Europe if we, as Europeans, are unable to develop people's rights in parallel with human rights. Mr. Federal Minister! In the future, at least I and the Liberal Forum Group expect a very clear idea of how we can proceed in Europe on this issue. In hardly a country in Europe, we have no problem with groups. That is why it would be time to take action in this area. Mr. Federal Minister! It would be nice if you would be able to present a foreign policy report once – your group has been in the foreign policy field for many years, and hence the task of producing a report on foreign policy – in which all political groups could agree by applause that we are all pursuing a common foreign policy. [[Abg. That's up to you!]] I urge you to include the opposition in these issues in particular. I believe that these are very reasonable and clear proposals. It would be nice if we had a common position on Austrian foreign policy and a common position on European security policy. The opposition's contribution is there, it's on the table. It is only your business to finally take these contributions seriously and to work out the projects together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e7709	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e7730	High house! I would like to comment on a number of points of discussion, which is also the meaning of such a debate. I listened very carefully. I'm just gonna pick up the last point. We would be happy if we would find the approval of the entire house with a good and ambitious foreign policy, which I believe would be good and ambitious. I also say without a doubt that I have no problem at all with the fact that every contribution, of course from the opposition's side, is very welcome. I would ask that we find ourselves at all for a more calm assessment of each other – we from the government bank and you from the political groups. I also have the feeling that today's debate has been very factual and constructive, and that it has been clear that it is commonplace. I can only say one preface to the sad subject, which is obviously an incredible point every time. You know the rules of the game: Every word is in agreement with all the ministers of the report itself. The preface of the Secretary of State or the Federal Minister is personally formulated. But I have no problem at all with me – neither now as Council President nor as Foreign Minister, Vice-President, individual or other political mandates. I don't have any schizophrenic distance to myself at all, but that's a personally designed preface of the head of the department. [[Abg. May. Peter: You do all of this together?]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's it!]] It is also a point for you to discuss, without a doubt, in which you can be of a different opinion. But I have no problem at all with either leaving a preface at all or voting the word for word at all at all in the future. I just can't see why this almost casuistic word-claubry, which some have tried, is now such a very important issue. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kiss.]] For example, Mrs Gredler has cited a sentence that these two enlargement processes contribute to the stability of Europe and are expressions of a complementary community of values. This is explicitly quoted: Especially those countries that have suffered a communist rule are convinced... and so on. These are literal quotations from speeches by Geremek, Mazowiecki, Bartoszewski, László Kovács and others. They're really saying that. I have assumed that this must, of course, be the case for professionals in foreign policy. This is not a ques tion of the Foreign Minister, who insists that this is his personal opinion. I quote the candidates, and they see this exactly so that, as it were, EU enlargement and the security dimension are two sides of the same medal. [[Calls and calls to the ÖVP and the Liberal Forum.]] This first point is just as mentioned. [[Abg. Kiss: They didn't come beyond the preface! I bet 1 000 s that they did not come any further!]] Secondly, I would like to say that this is also important to me, namely what a European Presidency is and what it can do. - Dear friend Kiss! I do not want to address your calls now, I just wanted to make a very personal statement on the question of the Presidency. It is not our task there that we should now "asterize" everything and that we should now paint everything red-and-white-red, but be one – also in the direction of critical Members of the Liberals – said: The topics currently on the agenda in these six months are precisely those - also tested by surveys - and probably every Member of Parliament who is in the constituency knows anyway - which the Austrians are very interested in. The issue of employment policy is one of the most important issues at the Vienna Summit, which is now also newly supported by the national employment programmes. We will initiate an action programme against organised crime. By the way, we are already concluding a "pact against organized crime" with the enlargement candidates. Each of these candidates is already contributing to how to proceed more efficiently against the Mafia and so on in a joint effort. The issue of environmental protection is a very important issue. If the 6-liter car is actually brought together under the Austrian Presidency, then I do not need to get used to the fact that in our six-month presidency, I have come across Austria, as Klubobmann Haider, who unfortunately no longer attends the debate, obviously accepts from me. But precisely because I am passionate for Europe and for Austria, I know that there is much to be achieved together at this time without constantly saying: Please, that's Austrian, that's not Europe! – For me, this is an inseparable unit, and that is the strain on it! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] A second very important issue: Mrs Kammerlander has some times – I did not understand exactly – but I have felt affected, so I say it the same way – criticized, we create or I create uncertainty. I'd like to listen to that. If, therefore, you feel that the Foreign Minister of this Republic is showing uncertainty, then tell me, but please, precisely. I believe that I am taking a very clear course with my line, which I cannot explain only in Austria. It is located on the gallery of the former State Secretary from Slovenia, today's ambassador to Slovenia in Austria – welcome! . which yesterday led, for example, the negotiations with me by Presidents, Prime Ministers and Foreign Ministers. I am not saying anything else there but I am speaking here before you, before the Austrian Members. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I say it's historically irreversible: We need this enlargement because it is good for the candidates who have a right to belong to this European vision, which has always been based on more than six members and more than 15 members today, because we also need this contribution from the candidates. If we do not create jobs in these countries, the economic pressure will grow. That is why it is true that part of the Agenda 2000 package, one of these four modules, is a very ambitious accession strategy and preparation strategy, according to which the double Marshall Plan is at least offered from the volume. What the Americans offered in the '40s, '50s, was for four years about 2.4% of the gross domestic product for the recipient countries at the time. We offer almost 3 percent for seven years. This is almost the double period and more than then – therefore more than twice as much. That's honest, and that's good money. I do not conceal the cost of enlargement. But today in America, you'll find a citizen who says: That was misplaced money at the time, it was too expensive that we shouldn't have done that!? – The Americans have thus won a loyal strategic partner in Europe for decades – security policy, but also as a market for their products. It will be the same if we lead enlargement together with the candidates to a success, listening to where they have sensitive zones, and listening to where the shoe is pressing us. I swear to you: Together, we can make this the biggest strategic success for Europe in the coming decades, in addition to monetary union. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP, as well as with representatives of the SPÖ and the Liberal Forum.]] Now that Peter Schieder has come in, I say quite consciously: I think today's security debate is very interesting, because it was honest. Andreas Khol has passionately said that there is no way by NATO. In fact, the leader of the Socialist Group has meant in a very remarkable way – if I have listened and interpreted correctly – that in principle we are not inextricably apart. And the same applies to most of the opposition speakers, because clearly... – Moment! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] It is important to work this out – as an opportunity for such a debate, without polemics. That there will not be a Europe-wide order in Africa, Peter, is of course. But, of course, that a European action can logically not only be confined to the narrowest of the 15 areas, thankfully, it was also made very clear in the speech. There will therefore be a graduated procedure: UNO, where the global scale is about the greater connection, OSCE, where the OSCE can also do something. As far as Kosovo is concerned, I am very convinced that there may still be possibilities for peace without military means. In Europe, we need to merge the European Union as a military arm with the WEU at some point. Everyone knows what that means. Therefore, we logically need the Russians in a dialogue position at all levels in Europe – not directed against us. I think that's a very interesting area. It was very important to work this out, and to me it was very positive. Then you can actually discuss how the assistance obligations laid down in Article 5 are with the WEU and NATO. If we are so far as we can see, for example, the WEU's commitment to assistance as an out of dispute – I am so careful once – then I say quite openly that it is even harder and clearer in many respects than it is in NATO. [[Abg. Young: The chancellor rejects this, the assistance obligation!]] Then, I think, in the security debate today, we may even have taken a big step, intellectually speaking. [[Abg. Scheibner: You need to convince your chancellor once!]] Again: Now let's leave the polemic calls! I think – and this is what the debates are – that was a very good and reasonable debate at the beginning of the Austrian Presidency, which, I believe, has certainly contributed a positive aspect to the formation of opinions over the last few days and weeks. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP, with representatives of the SPÖ and with representatives of the Liberal Forum.]] I would like to express my express thanks to the House for its resolution on Kosovo. That's a smart resolution. In the direction of Mrs Kammerlander: I think it is good that there has not been an explicit UN resolution. I'm telling you quite frankly, too, why. You can still believe that I am absolutely not a fetishist of any military blows on this issue. That is, if at all, the very last resort. There are already UN resolutions today, the very interesting UN Resolution 1160, a whole series of current, reviewable UN Security Council decisions. We are far from so far away that we can reduce everything to a single question. I am also very grateful for the support towards refugee care. I would also like to thank you for the important indication that, for example, during the Austrian Presidency, we are looking at the question of a more fair distribution of the burdens which, of course, can result from the flow of refugees, of costs, but also of taking over opportunities. I find this important and positive. I would also like to thank you for your willingness to continue in this area as an Austrian government. Last little technical findings and corrections to Jörg Haider. He claimed that a discount was negotiated under the British Presidency. Like so many partial information from Jörg Haider, that's just wrong. You only need to look at the various memoirs of Lady Thatcher or the memoirs of Mitterrand. In fact, in the summer of 1984 in Fontainebleau – which really is not part of the UK – the discount has been negotiated under the French Presidency. [[Abg. Scheibner: But did they get a discount?- Oh, my God!]] It is also wrong that the Danish Presidency... [[Further calls to the liberals.]] – You just need to research. It was claimed here and, of course, blamed me: Aha, the Austrian President of the Council doesn't want to, he doesn't trust himself. – The truth is completely different. The Danes also negotiated their opt-out not under Danish Presidency, but in Edinburgh in the summer of 1992. This was not under the Danish Presidency either. The third claim concerns my expectation that we will obtain some jobs through accession to the EU. I'm on good, secure ground. If you look, for example, at the economic researchers' forecasts that have been presented in these days, you will realize that we alone will have about 30 000 jobs this year and next year, plus 30 000 jobs. This is not bad for a young EU member. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e7893	Mr Dr. Schwimmer has now come to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e7914	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! According to the very clear words of the Vice-Chancellor and Foreign Minister, I would also like to briefly comment on the schine argument of the alleged neglect of Austrian interests in the Presidency. What is in the Austrian interest? – The Austrian interest is that this project works for Europe. The Austrian interest is that the European Union is successful in employment policy. The Austrian interest is that the European Union is successful in combating crime. The Austrian interest is that the euro will be a hard currency, that monetary union is a successful project. – If we work for it, then we work in the Austrian interest and nothing else, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] We've heard a few fairy tales again today. After the forgotten tortoise and the water pipeline to Brussels, the show fairy tale came from the delogger's notice today. How does it look to take up the foreign minister's word, this "construction site Europe" – yet it is not finished – actually look for the Austrians? – The Austrians live in one of the most beautiful spaces in this construction site, in a largely completed area of this construction site Europe. No one's depriving us of it. It is, however, if you have already lived at a construction site, even for you when the construction site is finished once the problems are stopped from outside and the others are as good as you are. That is in our interest, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Liberal Forum.]] You can't erase the geography as Haider wanted it, and you can't say: It is not true that the Ukrainian border lies closer to Vienna than Bregenz, the capital of Vorarlberg. – It’s true! And you can also not discuss away that, if there are despair reactions of the population there, there could be no barbed wire, no wall, or anything else in the face of the masses of people. So there is an interest far beyond the EU to continue building Europe at this construction site and to benefit from all possibilities. That is why there is also the OSCE next to the Union, so there is the Council of Europe as a Community of Human Rights and Democracy, where this can happen. These are, of course, also involved in actions to eliminate existing crisis spots in Europe. We will not be able to deal with the crises on our own, but we will have to take a common action. They have criticised the fact that it is important to consider whether Yugoslavia should return to the OSCE or not. What is the OSCE? – crisis management. If there are fellow citizens in a house who deal with fire-resistant material very easily, is it possible to exclude them from discussions on how to avoid a fire? - I don't think so. That's where they belong. I would absolutely oppose including Yugoslavia in the Council of Europe in view of its current course. There is still a lot to be changed in Yugoslavia before. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Liberal Forum.]] But where you think about how to deal with crises, such as those in Kosovo – and I would like to take a short look at them – it should go as quickly as possible so that the situation can be resolved peacefully in the interests of people there. We also need Yugoslavia at the table, where we need to talk to Yugoslavia in order to establish a special status for Kosovo with a broad autonomy within Yugoslavia in order to ensure respect for human rights. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] Mr Scheibner! You will have to do that at the end of the day, and above all through dialogue. [[Abg. Scheibner: How many more people must die until you learn that negotiations do not benefit!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] Threats alone do not benefit, unfortunately, that has already shown the past. High house! Mr Kammerlander asked for the clear picture of Europe, and I would like to conclude with that. There is a clear picture of Europe. The clear picture of Europe is a community of democracies and human rights, a community in which one also develops prosperity in order to be jointly safe in order to avoid joint crises. My very personal picture about this: As the year 1942, I grew up in the post-war period and experienced how people longed for the sovereignty of Austria. My parents trembled when they crossed the Enns demarcation line in their own country. If we play a leading role in the new Europe today, this is the clear picture of Europe that I have: not to tremble in one's own country, but to be able to play a leading role in this Europe of tomorrow.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e7983	The next speaker is Mr Jung. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e8004	Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Federal Minister, you have just attacked our observer in terms of truth, and then you yourself have spoken about the great performance on the labour market. I quote today's "standard", which is a "typical" liberal newspaper: "New unemployment record in Vienna". – That is the reality, Mr Federal Minister, and not what you tell us again and again! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Now to your foreign policy report. "Vienna is different," you can only say. You usually work, and when you have worked successfully, you are celebrated. We have once started to celebrate, and not with the work, Mr Federal Minister. With us, the Congress or Presidency dances and does not know if it does not dance on the ice. And for you, Minister of State, you can say in this context: From Metternich to "Millimetrernich" you can slide off quickly. Be careful! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Now on one point – because the time is unfortunately very short – which you will probably be centrally occupied in the near future, that is the question of Albania and Kosovo. Here the European Union is making the same mistake as it was made at the beginning of the Yugoslavia war. One ignores the facts. The population in Kosovo is said to be: Yes, we will help you, but self-determination is not a talk. The same mistake has been made with Croatia, vis-à-vis Slovenia. After a long period of bloodshed, one had to bow to reality. It will also come here, I fear, before you recognize the reality in this body that you are now in charge of. And this is tragic for the population. There is only one way that people like Mr. Miloševic understand, and that is not even the embargo alone, because that does not hurt Mr. Miloševic, it affects the people, but it is when he notes: It's not going any further here, otherwise it's powerful. This has been understood in the first phase of the Yugoslavian war, and this will only be understood in this case. And something else you need to understand: You really need to negotiate with the UCK. For who could have solved the Irish conflict, it has not yet been resolved, but can only resolve it in approaches without talking to the IRA? You need to talk to the people who are carried by the population, and not to people like Mr Rugova, who has lost any contact with reality. This is an essential task that you will meet. And then there's something else, Mr. Federal Minister – that would really interest me –: What to do As President of the EU, when NATO decides, because it does not go any further and because it blocks the Russians to make a commitment down there without UNO or CSCE mandates? What's going to be Then you do? If the majority of European states want you to become active there, you will say: Yes, but as an Austrian not! or you will represent the EU there, but say: But you must not fly over Austria, as you have already done during the exercise. You have just said that there is no neutrality in Kosovo. – Minister! Who is to take you seriously outside? This is a real question. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! We have just seen it in the debate: They are intended to coordinate a common European foreign and security policy, in which you are not even able to make a common foreign and security policy in this government coalition. Then how do you want to preside over Europe? It's all unbelievable. You didn't make an option report. In this report, they do not create anything but pleading appeals to the SPÖ. You don't even think about it when you're asked what the Federal Chancellor says about it. Doesn't that count from your point of view? I don't know. In this context, there is really nothing good to be expected. I would like to put the following motion for a resolution back to Albania: [[Quoted print version removed]] And this means that you will finally have a clear position here too, Mr Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e8119	Mr President, you have tabled a motion for a resolution. I would just like to remind you that every word has to be read here. Good. But he has now been presented in writing, he has been presented, has been sufficiently supported and is included in the negotiations. The next speaker is Dr. Gusenbauer. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e8143	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I believe that, in addition to the current questions to be resolved, the Austrian Presidency in the European Union should also be given the opportunity to raise the internal Austrian debate on the future of the European Union. This is mainly because there have been a number of things that have to be thoughtfully voted on in recent times. The "inthronation" of the President of the European Central Bank and all that was associated with it did not vote very much for hope. There are unheard-of resistances in individual countries as regards the enlargement of the European Union, and there is also a debate in Europe that I would call a so-called renationalisation debate, with some competences which the European Union has already had at national level to be reduced under the title of closeness to the citizen. I consider these trends to be worrying, because I believe that at this time the question arises whether we will choose more or less Europe. And I think it is important that Austria represents a clear position in this context. If I may start with the clear positioning, I will start with the question of enlargement of the European Union. I believe that the Western European civilisation model, based on democracy, the rule of law, human rights and social compensation, that this model, which has contributed to creating peace in Western Europe for over five decades, is also the decisive means of healing the wounds caused by the cold war in Europe. I therefore believe that if there is a central function of Austria in Europe, it is that we are at the heart of this continent and have a decisive function as a doorstep for Central and Eastern European democracies. I really fear that if there is a kind of debate that does not have the political vision of an enlarged European Union in the centre, but only the problems I see very well, then there is a danger that the narrowness and narrowness which sometimes occurs here in Austria will still be saddened in the future in Austria and in Europe. [[Accompaniment with the SPÖ and the Liberal Forum and the Abg. Dr. Khol.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I am of course of the opinion that the legitimate social and economic concerns must be resolved in the context of the enlargement of the East, but all these concerns are questions of concrete negotiations and not of a strategy of shifting the eastern enlargement to the Sankt-Nimmerleins Day. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The second point concerns the question of closeness to citizens, which is now also being discussed in Europe. I do not believe that closeness to the citizen is a matter where decision-making skills are located – whether it is in the federal state, the national state or at European level – I believe that close proximity manifests primarily by the commitment of policies to stand up for certain objectives and to communicate them in the public. One can see different views on the issue of euro, one has also taken a different view on Austria's accession to the European Union, but the two examples have shown very clearly that the majority of the population can be convinced if there is the corresponding political conviction. What is much more important for citizens is that, if there are more competences at European level – and I think that is right – there is also a democratic organisation of these competences. This, of course, has to do with the proposal by the former President of the Commission Delors of the direct election of the President of the Commission, which has to do with a stronger role of the European Parliament, also in the sense of an initiative right of the European Parliament, and this also has to do with the fact that the state of integration we have reached should also allow ourselves in Europe to cope with a process of constitutionalism. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! More Europe, more integration means a stronger urge towards democratisation of European structures. This brings Europe closer to the citizens, and I believe that is a crucial challenge for the future of the integration process.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e8206	Mr Hans Helmut Moser has now come to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e8231	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Foreign Minister! Today we are discussing the Federal Government's foreign policy report. I think it is a very important debate because it is always the possibility... [[Abg. Dr. Haider: (on the Deputy Chancellor and Foreign Minister, Dr. Schüssel, sitting on the government bank) Not only! We are also discussing his report.]] I assume that, as the Foreign Minister has said, the report as such has been voted with the other ministers and is therefore also a report by the Federal Government. And I think this is a very important and interesting inventory of the state of Austrian foreign policy. Mr Vice-Chancellor and Foreign Minister! Please give us your preface, because with this we know where your personal priorities are as Foreign Ministers, so we also have the necessary additional discussion material. On what you said as a replica of my colleague Gredler's criticism, I would like to say one thing: The criticism here was justified. Without continuing to address the preface, I must say that your presentation of the return of the new democracies to the common Europe is not presented in the form of a quote, as you said earlier as justification in your reply, but it is presented as your personal opinion and as your personal position. I don't mind. I am very glad that there has been this democratization in Eastern Europe. I am very glad that the enlargement of the European Union is due to the possibility of expanding and deepening the peace work, which is the central content of the European Union. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Foreign Minister spoke about the challenge of the EU Presidency. I believe that we really have the opportunity and the opportunity to present, during the EU Presidency, the European dimension of our foreign policy accordingly, and that we should also take the opportunity and have the opportunity to bring ourselves in at European level. Federal Minister! If you have said earlier that it is now important to show that we are able to coordinate policies, then I agree with you, but I would like us to take this effort in Austria, too, that we actually come to a broader political base in the field of foreign policy, in the field of security policy, and that this willingness to cooperate and these coordination efforts are indeed given in one, as I believe, as important as security policy. The statements made today by Mr Khol on the question of neutrality – we know them; we fully agree here – and also those of Mr Schieder show that, as I believe, we can go a little further when this debate on future security policy is being held, and we should also lead it during the presidency. I do not think it beneficial and good if this debate is now being declared to be over, but we should continue this debate with emphasis, and it must be an honest debate, in which we should also address the arguments of the others. In the context of this debate, for example, if neutrality is questioned, this does not mean that there is almost no constitutional behaviour, but it must also be possible for the legislator and us in the House to talk about changes to the Austrian federal constitution. Therefore, the question of neutrality must also be discussed as a security policy concept, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I think we should have an honest debate on the European dimension of Austrian security policy, on the question of the integration of the Western European Union into the European Union. We should also be very honest about joining NATO: When, to what extent, to what extent? There are the various possibilities, and here there is also a bandwidth within which there can finally come to a consensus – in the interest of the security of our country. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address a point that has also been raised today. It is an essential point and the real challenge of Austria within the framework of the EU Presidency: This is crisis management in Kosovo. Ladies and gentlemen! Kosovo will become a nail sample for the European Union. With this, Austria also has a very important task and a very large responsibility, and it will be crucially dependent on the Austrian Presidency to what extent the European Union fulfils its obligation on the continent. We regret to note that, in recent years, since the withdrawal of Yugoslavia's autonomy in Kosovo, it has not succeeded in internationalising this conflict, that it has not succeeded in strengthening those forces that are in favour of a non-violent solution in Kosovo, and unfortunately it has not succeeded in ending the blatant human rights violations in that region. I therefore believe that it is necessary for measures to be taken to resolve the conflict in Kosovo to be peacefully resolved by the European Union, and for the Federal Government to receive appropriate support from the Austrian Parliament as part of this presidency. I would therefore like to make a motion for a resolution because I believe that this motion for a resolution would be a very substantial support for our Presidency in the European Union: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that we should adopt such a resolution in the exercise of our responsibilities on the continent and in the exercise of our commitment, and I would ask you to give the necessary approval to the motion for a resolution. [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e8328	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hans Helmut Mosersoeven is sufficiently supported, has been submitted in accordance with the rules of procedure and is included in the negotiations. Ladies and gentlemen! As it is now at 3 p.m., I am interrupting the debate on Agenda items 1 and 2, because, as has already been announced, a urgent request has to be discussed. Request for urgent procedure by Mrs Brigitte Povysilund Comrades on the protection of our children from child abuse and child pornography (824/A) (E)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e8367	This is the urgent treatment of the self-employed application 824/A (E). In the meantime, he has approached all the Members so that a reading by the writer is not necessary. The urgent application has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e8576	I now give the floor to Mrs Povysil as an applicant for the urgent request. The speaking time must not exceed 20 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e8597	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Children still have absolutely no priority with us. The number of reported and reported sexual crimes has increased by 100 percent over the last three years. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Thank God they have increased! They used to be covered up!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We'll all be on vacation soon. All our children may soon go to holiday camps. I do not know, Mrs Fekter – you may also be coming along your child is interested in a holiday camp – whether you have heard one of the latest press releases: In turn, the head of a children’s camp admitted that he abused 20 boys at the age of nine to twelve. That is, the number of sexual offences increases and increases dramatically. But what remains absolutely the same? – Absolutely the number of convictions remains! Ladies and gentlemen! The childhood, says Professor Friedrich, is threatened as never before. The child has become very easy-to-use object: Children are marketed, children are eroded, their bodies are released for consumption. Ladies and gentlemen! Sexual abuse has now become a lucrative business. Of course: The children do everything with themselves and do not know what is really required of them! They are prepared accordingly before the productions, they are executed as lolitas. They are pumped with drugs so they don't really have a sense of what's happening to them. For example, they tolerated an elder’s oral intercourse with them. They adore in front of a camera and don't know what's really happening. They are so uncertain in their sexual behavior that they let everything happen to them. – That's how it is with children these days. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] I don't know if you know what the different stages of child pornography actually are: There are children's pornography, there are just movies and photographs made on the beach. There are so-called father-mother-child videos in which the family situation is replayed as the producers like. But there's also something I don't know if you're really aware of: There are the so-called "Snuff videos". Ladies and gentlemen! "Snuff videos" are videos for which children are first abused, tormented and eventually killed. These are also available on the market. Children are being killed! But they are not only killed in these videos, no, they are also killed in sexual abuse. I can't stop repeating again and again: Sexual abuse is murder, ladies and gentlemen! It's murder of the child soul. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If you do not finally recognize this if children are still not given any importance and if they continue to have no priority, then we have no future either, then you also have no future! We have therefore approached the government with a catalogue of measures. With such a catalogue, we have already tried a number of times to move the government to action. This catalogue of measures contains many regulations, such as setting up reporting agencies – it better regulates reporting and reporting requirements – for example, the level of punishment – the level of punishment is reinforced and defined more precisely – but, above all, this is a particularly important point for us – is to provide life-long leadership for perpetrators. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We know that these perpetrators are repeaters – these perpetrators will fall back to 80 percent! Such a life-long supervision measure – the perpetrators must be supervised so that they know what they are doing in the future and where they are living – is already law in England. But we also called for something that was condemned to failure in the last government template: We have demanded the rights of the victim. We have requested the rights of the victim in criminal proceedings, we have requested and tried to strengthen the rights of the child in the hearing, ladies and gentlemen, we have tried to achieve that the child can still get away quite intact for his later life when he consented. We asked for emergency help. We have called for a speedy settlement of criminal proceedings. We have called for an extension of the crime victim law. - But nothing happened. None of our demands have been fulfilled so far! Where, please, is our direct chance most likely? – It's probably only in the kids themselves! It was therefore particularly important for us to ask for mandatory information on children in our catalogue of measures. For we must teach the children how they can say no, not just no, but no, and yes, things that are in question for them. They must have real self-responsibility, they must escape the refinery of the perpetrator, they must know what is on them, so that they can decide how to spend their lives or how to escape the perpetrators. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] What, please, has happened so far from the government parties on this matter? – It's just incredible! In the Committee on Justice, the Government template for the revision of sexual criminal law was simply dropped. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Incredible!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Children have no priority with us! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: In Europe we play big and the children we do not protect!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] You talk big down here at the speaker's desk, and in the EU you talk about children's rights. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But hardly is a government template – which in any case only meets minimum demands, Mrs Deputies! – in the Committee, it is dissociated. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Fekter) You're the chairman!]] They – the representatives of Social Democracy and the ÖVP – could not even agree on two things: not even the limitation period and not even the gentle hearing of children. What is a difficulty in agreeing that children are being tenderly agreed on in a sexual criminal procedure? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It's missing the last rest of the civil court! There is no wonder at all that a child is being beaten on the corridor of a community building and that none of the doors opens, if not even a government template with two such minimum demands in the committee. There one works with a sham sanctity so much, and down here there is a great talk of children's rights. They have no right at all, they will be abandoned, they will forget! But a Cornelius Kolig with his faeces are subsidized and promoted! But a biennial catalogue with child abuse scenes... [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Fäkalkunst, that's what the Socialists love!]] Yes, he's being promoted, it's incredible! Otto Mühl gets the stage for the increase of his victims, and in the Vienna Secession he receives an exhibition. Ladies and gentlemen! I only have two words for this exhibition: disgusting and ridiculous. That's all you can say. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Why is this subsidized? Why – I ask you – is this subsidized and the government template suspended? – Mr Minister, you have family, you can explain this to me. [[towards the Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein]] Mr State Secretary! You are there in the representative of the Federal Chancellor, I hope you can explain this to me. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That's why the art becomes chief!]] This can only be compared with the fact that the "TATblatt" was also subsidized by the Federal Minister for a long time as a call for violence. This is obviously the government's subsidy policy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! What is it that really moves me most in my speeches? – We have already debated all of this several times about Cornelius Kolig, about the Biennial catalogue, about the mill. I have heard from many Members of all political groups that these subsidies are really absurd and incredible. I have also repeatedly heard from many Members of this House that children are really valuable and important to them. As I said, no one understands. The Federal Chancellor has also promised in one of his speeches measures in favour of the victims. It has even committed very concrete measures, i.e. measures for a clean Internet. We're going to set up a reporting station, he said. We are going to prosecute the information passed on to this notification body, he has said. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! They certainly agree with me that one can only protect children if one really gives them a self-conscious, critical education and shows a normal sexual behavior. You're here for me, I suppose. But why, I ask, does the government support clubs that offer the hardest pornographic content on the Internet? – It's just incredible! How are our children to get there? [[Abg. Dr. Haider: That's subsidized?]] Government templates will be dropped, and then pornographic content, hardest hardcore pornography will be supported by the government? [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Awesome!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: scandalous!]] Do you know that, Minister? Do you know that in 1996 there were 900 000 s of subsidies for these associations? Can you explain this to me in any way throughout the connex of child abuse that affects all of us? - It's quite unimaginable to me. Mr State Secretary! Now tell me about this policy: Can there ever be what we all want from our children, namely happy, self - conscious, self - responsible children? – Please explain this to me!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e8805	Mr Wittmann, State Secretary, spoke on behalf of the Federal Chancellor. Please, Mr State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e8835	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Not even you listen!]] There is a urgent request from the FPÖ on the subject of "protection of children from child abuse and child pornography" for debate. Let me make a few comments on the grounds of request and on this very serious subject in itself before I go into the request itself. Ladies and gentlemen! The issue of child abuse is far too important for the Federal Government as I would like to address the party policy or polemics of your side. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You talk the same thing every time!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: It is a naughtiness!]] The abuse of children is a terrible experience for the victim and for the family, it is a serious problem for society as a whole. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: You're not allowed to do that! That's great!]] The Federal Government has decided on a 25-point programme to combat the abuse of children with all its power. The Federal Government is working on the implementation of this catalogue of measures. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Where is the Federal Chancellor?]] Some important points have already been implemented: I just call it the right to attract a trustee and the establishment of other intervention agencies. In the end, however, this is a task for society as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! This is certainly not a matter which should be dealt with in party political terms. [[Abg. Boy: Then do something!]] In this sense, the Minister for Justice has submitted a law on criminal law, which provides, inter alia, for an extension of the limitation period, a more stringent punishment and an extension of the gentle hearing. [[Abg. Young: This is an old decision!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] I am convinced that the necessary measures will also be adopted. But the government has not been inactive in the meantime. Free delinquency advice has been provided, and special measures have been taken to ensure careful hearing of crime victims. Another important measure is the prevention of such crimes. This is already the focus of cooperation between the security authorities on the one hand and private victim protection bodies on the other. In Austria there are advisory institutions and women's homes, which are becoming more and more natural allies of the security authorities in the fight against violence in the family. In this context, special intervention agencies have also been set up to institutionalize cooperation. A prevention advisory board was set up to provide further proposals for better cooperation between safety authorities and other bodies. In addition, an emergency phone number was set up to help children in distress quickly and informally. In addition, measures have been taken to ensure a clean Internet. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] A separate reporting office at the Ministry of Interior for Children's Pornographic Content was established in February 1997. These contents are also consistently displayed. [[Abg. May. Stadler: We will show you today! You got it!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Child abuse and child pornography are an international problem which the Federal Government is therefore also fighting at this level. Austrian measures against violence in society are already a model for the European Union and the United Nations. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: That's a joke!]] For example, the Austrian model of prevention work in the executive, specifically the special trainings of executive officials, is taken over by other countries. In addition, Austria is also involved in specific EU initiatives to combat violence against children. Specific examples: Under STOP, the EU programme against sexual exploitation of women and children, Austrian projects to combat sexual exploitation are financed. In January of this year, a conference of the European Network for the Control of Violence against Women and Children took place in Vienna, which will provide further impetus for the fight against and the prevention of violence across Europe. The EU Daphne initiative, a programme to combat violence against women and children, also supports concrete measures by NGOs to protect against violence and, above all, against the sexual abuse of children. As far as the media is concerned, I should first like to remind you of the current legal situation. In the Broadcasting Act, all broadcasts must respect human dignity and the fundamental rights of others with respect to their presentation and content, nor must the broadcasts rise to hatred due to race, gender, religion and nationality. [[Abg. Young: But in exhibitions they can!]] Furthermore, in the implementation of the relevant EU directive on television without frontiers, there must be no programmes on television that can seriously affect the physical, mental and moral development of minors, especially those that show pornography or unfounded violence. Furthermore, in the case of television broadcasts that may affect the physical, mental or moral development of minors, the choice of broadcasting time should be made to ensure that these broadcasts by minors are usually not observed. The new television directive, which will be transposed into national law by the end of this year, also provides for a special labelling requirement for such broadcasts. The same rules apply to private TV operators. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Since ’89!]] It is clear from the Commission's constant sayings on the safeguarding of the Broadcasting Act that precisely these provisions are being monitored with great care by the competent supervisory authority. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: You slept everything!]] In addition to monitoring by the relevant supervisory authority, the Cable and Satellite Radio Law provides for administrative penalties for broadcasting operators who violate these requirements. [[Abg. Dr. Povysil: You tell fairy tales!]] On the Internet, I would remind you that the problem of the use of the new services can only be resolved internationally. I know that the Austrian security and judicial authorities are doing everything they can to stop these proceedings. [[Abg. Dr. Salzl: You have promoted such clubs!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Repressive or criminal measures are an essential part of combating child abuse, and we need to make the necessary changes here. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Ms. Fekter, unfortunately, does nothing more!]] However, I warn against seeing in such measures the only and sufficient means of combating abuse. As a responsible citizen in this society, we must ensure that the dark field of the sexual abuse of children in the family, in the social environment and in certain conditions of authority is brightened. Further information is needed to this end. In addition to strict punishments, support and care for victims is needed. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I have just explained why this issue is certainly not suitable for party-political polemics and not at all for defamation. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: A ban on discussion has been issued!]] To promote pornography by promoting art, let me say the following: In principle, the assumption that the Federal Government is particularly encouraging pornography or violence is to reject the extreme. I am opposed to such precepts. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: The promotion must be rejected!]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is almost ridiculous to propose to the Federal Government that pornography should be promoted. [[Abg. Dr. Salzl: It's not ridiculous, it's a fact!]] I am very much in favour of it! I also have a family and would not give myself to any other Member for such an opinion. You should really choose your means of expression more targetedly, because I believe that this issue is certainly not served by regulations. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: It is not your job to distribute censorships! You have to answer!]] However, I would also like to expressly note that the times of happiness in which the state has determined what art is and what is not art are over. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You'll be amazed today! It's still harmless! Get warm. You're going to experience a lot today!]] I can only remember some cases in art history. Egon Schiele is probably the best known and close to you with an exhibition. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: That didn't deserve Schiele!]] I believe that we are very well advised if we rely on the judgment of experts in the assessment of art and do not expect the state intervention here on call. I can assure you, however, that we do not promote such content, whose support has been imposed on us. I am once again expressly opposed, especially as a family father, who would never be subordinated to another family father, that he would promote such a thing. [[Abg. Scheibner: But you do it!]] I consider this kind of politics too deep for this House! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Awesome!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to express my support: We should protect ourselves against it or distance ourselves from throwing art and violence against children into a pot and building on it party-political polemics. [[Abg. Aumayr: We should protect children!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: You are even more miserable when you talk free! Read it again!]] I find it embarrassing to mention child abuse in connection with art in order to make any party-political propaganda statements here. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Even more sad! Read on!]] Child abuse is and remains a form of human rights abuse, which must be deeply condemned, which has no place to find in any form of society and which belongs to the strictest punishment! Under these premises, the Federal Government is acting!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e9280	The first speaker to speak is Mr Magistrate. Schweitzer. No debate contribution may exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e9301	Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr State Secretary! Our colleague, Mr Povysil, has shown that, despite numerous announcements, the Federal Government has not been able to take effective measures to protect our children. That's a fact. However, it is obvious that: To this day – and you have tried it again today – you will find defensive words when it comes to the demonstrably supported artists such as Cornelius Kolig and Otto Mühl – with all that we have experienced in this field of action – or when it comes to promoting the Austrian contribution to the 1997 Biennial. Obviously you are – you are special, Mr State Secretary! – still feel that "mighty" literature comes through obscene words and that "mighty" painting is defined by perversion and actionism by piglets. I think that's your opinion! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This impression must be given more and more of what you have said in connection with these incidents in recent years. [[Abg. Müller: Not so loud!]] That's why we were surprised and happy, as German Chancellor climate on 26. February 1998 – I can remember: wildly determined to finally take action – has spoken out as follows – I quote –: "The Ministry of the Interior has already taken concrete measures for a clean Internet a year ago. A reporting point was set up, even looking for worrying content, but in which the information about child pornography or extremist content of those who find it themselves can also be consciously displayed. These contents will then be communicated to the law enforcement authorities or via Interpol to the local security authorities." – Brands You are good, Mr State Secretary, what I have read to you. Please remember well! There are also citizens who, according to the motto "confidence is good, but control is better" have sunk into the Internet and checked whether the Ministry of the Interior actually fulfils its tasks – as announced by the Federal Chancellor. I say to you, Mr State Secretary: One of these citizens has become found. He found it – listen carefully! – under "Public Netbase t0 Media~Space!", by the way at home in the museum quarter, Museumplatz 1, 1070 Vienna, this calendar of events, Mr. State Secretary! [[The speaker holds some bound leaves in height and reads from them.]] "sex.net – sex, read, and the Internet", sex festival on the Internet. There are a number of events announced, including reservations such as: "Some videos contain extreme scenes. Only suitable for people with good nerves and from 18 years". There are indications of a number of events: 7th, 14, 15th and 16th. May – I will then give it to you – in which, in fact, only hard pornography is involved, Mr State Secretary! "A fun web-sex workshop" for example; I can then quote some of it to you. We were sent a lot of food samples from this "sex.net": "These hardcore streaming video feeds are anywhere to blow your socks off!" – Minister of State! Look at this! It will cut you out of the socks when Take a look at what's accessible over the Internet, which you have cleaned so clean! Free access for all, for all users, including children, Mr. State Secretary! Some samples of food: "Do order your membership now!" - Wait a minute, we'll come back to that, Mrs. Brinek! – The "fetish diva" can be accessed via the Internet in all possible situations and learn all kinds of things. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Excuse me! How do you want to check the Internet?]] There is also a remarkable indication, Mr State Secretary, and now it will be exciting! "Support of and Cooperation with Cultural Institutions and Initiatives:... KUNSTHALLE wien, Museumsquartier Einsatzungs- und Betriebs GmbH. ... Museum of Applied Art MAK, Wiener Secession", "Workplace and Cultural House WUK, Austrian Culture Service ÖKS, Global 2000" can be found below, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. May. Stadler: The Gehrers! Your gutters, Mrs. Brinek!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Shame!]] But then, Mr. State Secretary, the bottom line is: "... so by: Federal Chancellery – KUNST Federal Curator Wolfgang Zinggl"! Are these your measures for a clean Internet, Mr. State Secretary? By subsidizing what I just showed you? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: That's subsidized? – "Pui!"- Call the liberals.]] Are these your measures for a clean Internet? Are these your actions, Mr. State Secretary? [[Abg. Dr. Haider: This is a pigry, nothing else! With taxpayers subsidize and then talk big about protecting the children!]] I quote from the 1996 art report, curator's report Stella Rollig: "t0 – Public Netbase" – this is this – "Verein t0 – Institut für neuen Kulturtechnologien, Wien", total funding 900 000 S, 1996 320 000 S and 100 000 S. Mr. State Secretary! [[the speaker shall keep the previously quoted leaves in height]] You have promoted this! Is that your idea of the clean Internet, Mr. State Secretary? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Are these your measures for a clean Internet? I believe that what you have said about "polemic", "substantial" and "low drawer" is self-evident! Don't you know what you're doing? Don't the left know what the rights in your institution do? They are promoting these piglets, Mr. State Secretary! We have proved it to you! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We have shown it to you at Kolig and his excrement artists! We have shown you at Mühl's housing development! And you have experienced it yourself on the stage of the Burgtheater and finally in the Secession! They have promoted this: Gehrer, Wittmann, Klima and so on, the promoters of this art are called! Mr State Secretary! We have now also convinced you that you are promoting what you do not really want to do about your State Secretariat, in which climate the art has now become the main thing! You are not taking it away, but you are spreading it, and so you have a good part to play in what Mr Povysil rightly accused here. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: What about the children?]] I'm curious how you're going to get out of business! I am very curious about how you will get out of the affair if you have to explain how such promotions come about! It has been shown that the funding comes from your area, not too close. We will still be interested in this! The reports on how high the funding in 1997 was, how high the funding in 1998 and what you have planned for the year 1999, are not available to us from the opposition. That would still be of great interest to us, and I am curious whether you will now give us the same information in the same style as you have previously condemned that we are going to get into the bottom drawer and tell the public the truth! There is evidence for this, Mr State Secretary, and I am curious about how you will deal with these documents, with which the funding can be clearly demonstrated. – They finance hard pornography that our children can fully access via the Internet! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haider.]] Ladies and gentlemen! By the way, Public Netbase reports on its own that the t0 information events, workshops and trainings and the t0-World Wide Web Server have enabled an active Internet scene to be developed. 35 million visitors prove this, they are famous, and this has raised awareness of the new communication and information technologies. – With this statement, these providers should indeed be right. There is an interesting statistics published in the "Steirer": "Sex in Parliament." Here, the magistrate of Vienna finds itself as a user at the top of 4 809 entry, then the Lower Austrian state government, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP,...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e9459	The final sentence, please, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e9475	Above all, the best users of this service are the ÖVP Parliamentary Club and the SPÖ Parliamentary Club, and the Federal Ministry of the Environment, Youth and Family is third in the sex online internet history, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e9511	Mr Jarolim is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 10 minutes maximum speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e9532	Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The content of this urgent request, this mixture of demands for measures already implemented, on the one hand, and for measures currently under discussion, on the other, combined with discussions that we already know in connection with the Causa Mühl, shows once again – I have to blame you here – that this kind of panoptic does not really reflect on what we are discussing here. Ladies and gentlemen! I think the issue is too serious to hold a party-political debate here at the expense of the children. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Do you have children? Why do you support such piglets?]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Among other things, the way in which you have an argument, namely by yelling down here, is also a significant one for you, ladies and gentlemen! I can tell you that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You're always talking about children, and then you'll support such piggy!]] Mr Haider! Let me talk to you, please. Don't be so nervous, Mr. Haider. I think you really don't know what you're talking about. That's the jumping point! Mrs Povysil! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to make a comment because I have found this remarkable today: I have so far seen you in all your speeches as a very factual discussion. In fact, I do not want to take into account any value judgment, but I regret what you have explained here today. I have to say that this is also a kind of personal disappointment – and in principle my expectation of Members of the Liberal Party is not too high, I must say that! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] Mrs Povysil! They have all told us seriously that there are films in which children are murdered or abused and sexually abused. – We all know that, we all fear it, and we all fight it! But you did not put this fact into space in the form of what you said, we must do something about it, but we must move it to be promoted by the parties of this House. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] You've put this to us and asked us: Don't you recognize that? You don't mind? In view of this, I would like to ask you to return to a level which meets the reputation of this House, ladies and gentlemen, in the discussions of this House. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I can tell you this, so that you may see in the matter itself a little clearer and the fruitiness of this argument is revealed in an extremely delicate and extremely dangerous matter: They say that the government has not implemented anything. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Povysil.]] They say that other parties to this House have not implemented anything. – I would like to remind you that child protection... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haider.]] Mr President, I should like to thank It was implemented about § 64 StGB, with which we have made explicit provision that sexual exploitation of children abroad is also punishable in Austria. Don't say that's nothing! Furthermore, we have implemented § 207a StGB regarding pornographic representation with non-mortems. And that's a significant change! Finally, we have also implemented an amendment to § 1328 ABGB, ladies and gentlemen! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] However, you are saying that nothing has been done! That's your argument! And because you can't differentiate at all, are Neither do you take them seriously, ladies and gentlemen. Remember that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There are a number of measures that have already been implemented, and there are also a number of measures that we are currently in the process of implementation. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: They subsidize pigs!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Perhaps it is not all that may be known, but some of you certainly know that, for example, in the criminal proceedings of the preliminary proceedings, an extensive further improvement in the protection of victims is planned. You can't just go here and write out what is contained in the project from the drafts and then make yourself and say: That's what we're asking! – This is the unfair course I blame you for! [[Abg. May. Stadler: They promote pigs!]] In part, they have called for measures that have already been implemented. But you still trust to go out here and say: We demand that! You have called for measures which are currently being discussed in the projects, ladies and gentlemen. For example, you ask for the improvement of the position of the victims, the assistance of the proceedings or the gentle agreement, which is sometimes already... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haider.]] Mr President, I should like to thank You should know that! There is already a gentle agreement. You may not know, colleague Haider, but employees of your party will be able to explain this to you! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Why do you promote swinery?]] Either you talk about the subject or you talk about the art debate where you want to try to get us your peculiar understanding! However, I am in favour of this, Mr President. You can hold this discussion within your party! Mr Haider! If you're talking so strongly right now, I'd like to tell you the following: Mr Povysil correctly stated that it is necessary for us to create framework conditions for the protection of children, and that these framework conditions must ultimately be such that the children themselves become defenceworthy, that they have backbones, that they can actually take up their lives, and that there are also bodies that address such problems, such as the telephones we have set up throughout the country. You, Mr Haider, make similar demands with an unfrozenness, immediately after you have put in place in your own party a lot of measures to prevent what you are now demanding, namely remorse, self-employment and self-responsibility! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Povysil.]] You can't really ask that here! Give this to me, Mr Haider. I would remind you of your comments, in which you say there are people of first and second class and a leader! That is exactly what it is, Mr Haider. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: They subsidize pigs!]] You can now quietly cancel it 20 times more because you know exactly that you are weaker in the argument. [[Congratulations and cheerfulness at SPÖ.]] They are the one who spoke of people first and second class and of people who step down to others! Didn't you say that, Mr. Haider? Should I read it to you? Should I remind you? [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You promote the violence of children!]] Mr Haider! With what unfrozenness do you demand if you do exactly the opposite? [[Abg. May. Stadler: You are talking about such a smearing that the SPÖ is already generating itself!]] Mr Stadler! To shock her is, I think, an honor rather than a burden! [[Abg. May. Stadler: Not even Fuhrmann has soaked up such pots! No justice officer of the SPÖ has yet tapped into such a smearing!]] Just scream and express the image of your party in a significant way, so that the seriousness of how you deal with this issue, Mr Stadler, becomes manifest here! You have proved this seriousness to us today! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: High time for you to sit down! You've mocked the victims long enough!]] Mr Stadler, you can't say anything about remorse. For you not only detest the members of your club and your party, but you also detest the entire population of this country in addition to the children by believing that there is still someone who takes you seriously! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I conclude by saying: There are a number of measures that have been implemented. I would like to mention that again. There is also a motion for a resolution of 26.2.1998, which you, Mr Haider, are probably not aware of because you are not here often. A number of measures are listed in this report: Community law, EC internal market, EC internal market, free movement of goods, free movement of goods, free movement of goods, free movement of persons, free movement of persons, free movement of [[Further call of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] Mr Stadler! You're really sorry! You will not, in this way of debate, prevent us from continuing the debate in detail and, in the end, from implementing what you are calling for without you and without your support for the benefit of our children. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e9796	Mrs Fekter is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 10 minutes maximum speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e9817	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! The ÖVP of course rejects an association promotion for dubious purposes! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Whether that association promotion or cultural promotion, which has been condemned here by Mr Schweitzer, is actually problematic, I would like to question it once again, because the further presentation of Mr Schweitzer, in which the Internet and the question of pornography have been asked by the ÖVP club, is also questionable. It was not possible for me in the short time to review all the claims, but it was very possible in this short time to find that Mr Schweitzer misrepresented the reality. Either he doesn't know about himself on the Internet, or he's kept silent things that can be mentioned very well in this context. – I would like to explain this briefly: The access to the Internet through the ÖVP Club and the frequency of the access via the ÖVP Club are made by links. These are the menus you pass on while surfing. Mr Schweitzer. You probably don't know yourself, otherwise you would have mentioned this earlier! If on the Internet at the ÖVP Club There are links and someone is surfing by, then continues surfing and eventually ends up with pornography, so he is assigned to the ÖVP club. It is also mentioned in the newspaper article in question that one has access via these links. And you still have to add: The Internet of the ÖVP has these links, while other places do not have these links because they do not offer the appropriate Internet services; therefore they do not appear to this extent in the statistics! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You have no idea of the Internet at all!]] It is also to be said that not everyone who is registered as a user in statistics was on the road as a voyeur, for example, it is very much the responsibility of the Ministry of the Family – for which the Minister of Family will still express himself – to try to find such pornographic things on the Internet in order to report them to the Department of the Interior, for there was specifically a central reporting point for combating child pornography content on the Internet! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] I know, Mr Schweitzer, that you are sorry that the whole thing was a balloon. That is why this excitement! I ask you to first find out how to surf the Internet and then to whom to count as a user when such statistics appear and quote them! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As President of the Justice Committee, I would also like to draw attention to the fact that data protection law is very worrying when such personal things, such as data on surfing on the Internet, are published. In this context, I believe that data protection requires action in order to guarantee a certain level of privacy. I can well imagine that we are introducing a new criminal record, which is a kind of datahealing with illegally used data and publications in this context. Now to the actual urgent request. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Is there the word "children" for you?]] Mr Haider! I now come to the matter after I have answered the previous speakers. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you have guided the issue towards the Internet! But now I come to the urgent request. The ÖVP has always put the protection of children in the foreground and always addresses the issue of victim protection! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As a result, we have gradually improved in this area. It has introduced the Austrian jurisdiction in the case of sexual offences abroad, the so-called sex tourism. The criminality of possession of child pornography has been substantially increased, and in commercial action, for example, the penalties have been tripled. It created an intangible right of compensation for the victims of sexual acts, according to which victims are granted compensation for the suffering infirmity alone. It was created by the federal law against violence in the family a right of way towards violent family members. By the way, this right of way was not accepted by the liberals at the time, and they did not vote in favour. I have already mentioned the establishment of a central reporting point for combating child pornography content on the Internet by the Federal Ministry of Internal Affairs. A special working group has also been set up in the EU under the current Austrian Presidency to combat child pornography and extremism on the Internet. In addition, together with the Bar Association, we have put in place information leaflets at the courts to inform victims of sexual violence when they are involved in court proceedings. New is the government template, which unfortunately, I admit, could not be adopted because there was no real agreement before the committee. This government template will provide for an extension of the limitation of sexual offences beyond the maturity of the victim. It will also provide for criminal equality between the insomnia and the insomnia-like offences, and it will also provide for an improvement in the procedural position of the victim of sexual offences. [[Abg. Young: In the next legislative period?]] No, no, no, We still have all autumn time, and I am sure that we will reach an agreement in autumn! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Perhaps we will find greater agreement here than it appeared before the Committee. It has been critically seen by the ÖVP that this law allows sleeping and sleeping with young people up to the age of twelve, at a tolerance limit of three years, i.e. about under the same age. We of the ÖVP say: We do not accept a reduction in the age of protection from the present age of 14 to 12 years! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In this context, we want to set the age limit at the age of 13 with a tolerance limit of three years, and we hope that the coalition partner or possibly the liberals can join it. Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! I think that this urgent request is certainly a little shambles. Because you did not agree to the right of directions at the time. Mr Ofner commented on this law at the time – I quote – : "Because the possibilities offered by this proposal are so adventurous that they simply do not fit into the fight against violence in the family, but go far beyond this project." Mr Ofner asked: "We believe that a certain minimum level of violence should be necessary in this context before one can turn away." Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This is not a protection for children when they first demand violence before they do something! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You could have agreed at the time! You do not need to regret that the criminal law reform did not go on stage before the summer, because you have signaled that you will not agree. They were far too far from the limitation rules. Mr. Ofner has put himself on the side of the perpetrators. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] In your application, point 15 is requested: End of limitation period for offences two years after the victim's maturity. – But we want more than these two years. Mr Ofner, on the other hand, argued that this was a damocles sword hanging above the perpetrator, that it was unreasonable and that he wanted to take the perpetrator out of duty after two years.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e9922	Please put the final sentence, Mrs Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e9937	We want to protect the victim and not relieve the perpetrator!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e9968	Mr Dr. Ofner has referred to an actual correction. 2 minutes maximum speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e9989	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! It is difficult for me not to go beyond the actual correction, but I will comply with the rules. The representation that I would have put myself on the side of the perpetrators is incorrect. I put myself on the side of the victims, however, professionally different from the spouses of the gravel pit owners.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e10025	I would like to say for a moment that the last sentence has gone beyond actual correction. [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: That was unworthy of an officer!]] Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Barmüller. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e10055	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I think the association is wrong and the excitement is unfounded. For, of course, Mr Ofner did not mean Mrs Fekter when he referred to the gravel pits. Rather, he realized that if you sit in the glass house, you should not throw stones. And the first association was the gravel pit! I have not forgotten that the enthusiastically debated Liberal Group has had in its ranks an employee who organized the first erotic trade fair in Vienna on the infrastructure of the liberal parliamentary club. It was the fax connection of the liberals, the telephone of the liberals, the computers of the liberals, with which an employee of the liberal parliamentary club organized the first erotic fair in Vienna. If you sit in the glass house, don't throw stones! That is what Mr Ofner said when he replied to your remarks. That's what he's remembered now. I wanted to put that into practice! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum and the ÖVP.]] Fraglos is the problem raised, an important issue that we have often discussed. However, I do not want to hide in this respect that it is peculiar if it is precisely a fact that a group with early retirement councils in their ranks, who are too sick to work – as the liberals would say – but are still healthy enough to act as porn couples in a porn magazine, here with such a double morale! In particular, it is interesting for Members of the Krüger – which I am unfortunately not seeing anymore – when it came to the distinction between "KZ" and "Straflager", who, addressed one and a half million children who died in concentration camps, knew nothing else to associate with, but to say: This is a semantic masturbation. In view of this, this group has zero moral competence to say something in this direction! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] But it has not only no moral competence, but also apparently no professional competence. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] Member of Parliament, young man! Now I'm coming to you! Mr Wittmann, after Mrs Povysil said that mill and fecal art are a problem, said clearly: The state doesn't determine what art is. – We agree. Mr Jung, however, felt provoked when Mr Wittman, State Secretary, said: You have an example in your area, Egon Schiele. This is what honourable Member Jung said: He's also incarcerated! [[General hustle and bustle.]] Member of Parliament, young man! But it is so that this Egon Schiele, which you will certainly know from the hearsay, was a totally impossible person: He has deprived himself of the access of the liberals by early death! [[Cheerfulness and applause at the Liberal Forum, SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is something like what we have experienced here today from this group, if we are to have urgent requests from people like Mr Stadler, perhaps with the advice of the porn hunter Humer and his friend Krenn. That is the mentality of the porn hunter Humer, whom we all know – and you know him very well, Mr Stadler – with which you completely pass by the real problem and because of which you are unable to make a constructive contribution in this House, Mrs Haller, at some point in time to solve this problem! There have been some examples, ladies and gentlemen, which show that it is not true that not much has been done in this House. It is true that you have always refused these measures. This was the case with the right of directions, which has already been addressed today, when it came to our own hearing rooms for minor victims, and that was the case when it came to the recovery of trustees. You have not taken all these measures! You've always refused! And that's why you don't have the right to act here as if you were the ones who recognized the problem. The opposite is the case: They represent a line which is not carried by this House, and not because it proves incompetence and is not applicable. I would also like to say this to you on the basis of your specific urgent request. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Well, such figures are not included in the list of lawyers!]] Deputies! If I hear what you say here, you should have been there for a long time. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum, SPÖ and ÖVP.]] It is only thanks to the generosity of the Chamber that you are still on the list. How is that now? [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: You didn't lose anything!]] As a lawyer, I ask you: What crimes have been committed by those 1.5 million children who have been killed in the prison camps, usually called "KZs", after your division? [[Call to the liberals: I still missed it!]] - You said that's "straflager." If children were imprisoned and killed there, Mr Krüger, Mr Lawyers, then you will probably know what "crime" they alleged to have committed. However, you have remained guilty of this statement on the floor of the speaker. [[Abg. May. Stadler: We believed you were just primitive! You're more primitive!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I read in your urgent request that you facilitate early detection of acts and ensure adequate reactions from the rule of law to serious crimes against children. – There has never been any doubt in this House that not only are adequate reactions to serious crimes against children to be made, but all crimes and all crimes to children. But this is clearly stated in your application by lawyers. I am therefore surprised that you make this distinction. I am also surprised that you are demanding an absolute obligation to advertise. In this context - as Mrs Fekter, I must correct you - it is so that the liberals demand the crimes committed for all the crimes committed in the mouth. [[Abg. May. Stadler: She must protect her protector! The political draughtsman!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You have to control the government, not the Members!]] We all know - and you, Mr Graf, should know this too - that the crimes cannot be connected to them, and therefore not, ladies and gentlemen, because the crimes still need a closed procedure until they have actually been found. Nor do we liberals believe that the deadline should only go two years beyond the age of impatience – that is, until 16 – but, of course, as you have rightly said, Mrs Fekter – beyond maturity. The liberals, however, want to grant the possibility of ad just up to two years beyond the impatience, i.e. until the 16th century. Year of life. But this is a time period that is far too short and does not satisfy the problem at all. But here it says: The FPÖ, for example, has already given notice of this very short period of time by the Federal Government a long time ago – which I have already mentioned. – To this end They do not receive consent from the Liberals, and that is not because this short period of time is simply not appropriate to the problem. Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! But in this proposal you are still asking for the establishment of special departments of the security authorities, which are also intended to carry out sham and trust purchases, so that you want the police in Austria to incite these crimes, and that those people who are supposed to fight them should be seduced to prove that this is your proposal, in fact, only your incompetence in this field. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to talk about another aspect, one that I mentioned here in the course of the debate on a urgent question concerning Otto Mühl. They demand an improvement in the field of the crime victim law, because you want to ensure free care of the psychological damage of unmistakable people – you seem to want to limit it only to the unmistakable. They also say that you are talking about a "fair calculation" of future earnings and the acquisition of pain benefits. From this point on, I'll tell you: If you are serious about this, you have not understood what the real problem is and why it needs mental care for abused children. They say: "Whoever does nothing, who keeps silent, who tolerates, agrees!" – That is also stated in your request. – In this respect, I naturally thought of Rosenstingl and all that you knew in this context last November, but still did not prevent. I would therefore like to come to a last point without deviating myself from the subject: Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! They demand that all those organizations and media in any way and How to support pornographic representations or pornography, be excluded from any public funding. [[The speaker opens a copy of the "Kronen Zeitung".]] I have here the "Kronen Zeitung" and find in the back part ads and annotations of clearly relevant content. So if you are serious about your request – as it stands here – and if you are demanding a medium that supports it in some way, you must not get funding from public funds, you say, in accordance with Humer, that you should delete the press promotion of the "Kronen Zeitung". I do not want to have anything to do with your kind of politics! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e10223	High house! I would like to say two things for the further course of the debate. First: I would ask you to take care to deal with certain names which may be at the border of insulting Members. Secondly, I would like to draw attention to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure concerning the actual corrections, and I would like to ask for that, Mr Krüger, the Bureau is now on the floor. – not to go to the speaker's desk with the intention of perhaps not using an actual correction as such. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: That's where I let myself complain!]] [[Abg. May. Peter: Sit!]] [[Unrest in the hall]] [[President Dr. Brauneder gives the bell sign]] In this sense, there are now two actual corrections, first of all those made by Mr Dr. Ofner and then by Mr Jung. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e10299	I correct or correct my immediate predecessor in so far as he claimed that the liberals had employed an employee who had organized a porn trade fair. - That's not right. The liberals separated themselves from this employee immediately when he sent himself to organize a porn trade fair.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e10330	Mr Jung, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. A maximum of 2 minutes of speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e10354	Mr Barmüller said that I felt provoked by Mr Wittmann. - That's the right thing to do. But he also said that sheer hearings were locked up. – Mr Colleague! I must inform you of your regret: Schiele's not alive anymore. Go to Tulln! I said the following: However, Schiele was also imprisoned for acts of fornication – as we all know.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e10390	Mr Bartenstein has now been reported to speak. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e10438	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the House! When we were on the 26th. February of this year – this date has already been addressed – I have discussed a similar subject similarly emotionally, among other things, I have said that – and not only me, but probably all the Members of this House – the debate on this issue is affecting me from the outset, as well as family fathers, family mothers and others. As someone who has been sitting on the Members' banks of this House for several years, let me say that I was concerned about your statement in the direction of the Judge-General of the VP Group and Chairman of the Justice Committee. I have neither expected nor experienced this interruption. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] – I allow myself to do this anyway. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: I'm just telling you!]] I have not heard of anyone in this House in this House who speaks for himself in particular if one wants to make contempt for the professional image of the husband of the chairman of the Committee on Justice. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You know that Khol wants to become President!]] That's the most ridiculous thing I've ever heard. What are you doing?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! On the matter: The applicant for this urgent request, Mrs Povysil, has started by criticizing the government coalition that the number of ads has increased dramatically. – Ladies and gentlemen! I'll give you all the right. The number of ads concerning child abuse, to which §§ 206 and 207 StGB, has increased dramatically and has almost doubled in 1997 compared with 1996. But you are completely wrong with putting that at the centre of your criticism. On the contrary: What – not only but also – this government coalition has achieved in the last two to three years, namely the awareness of the abuse of child abuse, is ultimately also a prerequisite for the number of ads to increase. If this is not the case with the number of convictions, we must work together to ensure that the number of convictions increases to a similar extent to that of the ads. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Fuchs.]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) On the "Sacrifice" that you have accused of the government coalition: I would like to give you this back to telquel, and I would like to quote a few things – but not explicitly, because this would take too long – of what Mr Barmüller has referred to here. Speaking of "Sin sanctity" or "double morals" in this context is probably a follow-up to the principle of "Hold the thief!". – Look Once you look at yourself, take a look at when you have worked seriously on the subject of "the fight for sexual abuse of children and fight against child abuse", and face that of parliamentary activity when, as today, you have just tried to operate political moods. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: A word about the promotions! Please, just a word on the promotions!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] With regard to the goals you have expressed, namely to strengthen the protection of victims, to do something for the perpetrator therapy, employees and sympathizers in all the ranks of this House and also on the government bank on your side. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: What do we do against such promotions?]] It is right and important that a number of things have already happened, but that some things still need to be done. Mrs Fekter pointed out in an impressive way what concrete measures had already been taken. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: What do we do together?]] Mr Jarolim has pointed out that the government has adopted a 25-point programme on "Fight against violence against children and against violence in the family", which we shall now put to the vote. I should like to point out, for example, that in October of this year, we will hold a survey together with internationally recognized capacities in this field, namely Professor Berner from Hamburg and Professor Friedrich from Vienna. It is the demand of many experts that perpetrator therapy is necessary and appropriate throughout life, because someone who has been released from prison can not be considered healed and because the relapse rates are terrifyingly high in sexual offenders. Unfortunately, it is God’s case that the more serious the sexual offence was, the higher the relapse rate. We have to think about this, and we are still at the beginning in Austria. We need to create at the criminal level the conditions for keeping these sexual offenders in the interests of the victims, but ultimately also in their own interest for life under control or under management supervision – as always called this therapy. In this respect, you will find partners in the debate, but you will certainly find in us no one who follows your political polemics. First of all, they say easily: Sexual abuse is murder of the child soul. – I would still sign that. But First of all, they speak of "murder" and, in your current demand catalogue, on the other hand, of the "life-long sentence for particularly severe forms of child abuse". – Whoever does this, my very dear ones Ladies and gentlemen, he says indirectly that he demands the death penalty for murder and for himself, for the death penalty is the only increase in life sentence. – I totally reject that, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European Free Alliance. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ, the Liberal Forum and the Greens.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: No word on the promotions!]] Mrs Povysil has criticized the fact that there are so-called Snuff videos. If there is such a thing, it is terrible and horrendous. I can only say that my predecessor, Mrs Feldbrill-Zankel, already in 1992 commissioned under-cover journalists in a project known as a "Knospe project" to search for such videos in Austria. [[Abg. May. Stadler: What the Jarolim accuses us of! Your coalition partner blamed us!]] They haven't been found. However, child pornography videos have been found, and this has led to the punishment of child pornography on and on its own, the possession of videos, of trade only right and then later sex tourism. In one case, I agree with the statements made by some Members, including Mrs Fekter's statement: It would undoubtedly be useful if the House could adopt as soon as possible that government template which provides for a further strengthening of sexual criminal law in terms of limitation, in terms of harsher punishment of sleeping-like acts. The government template is before Parliament. I call on those who have made other points in recent weeks, not to do so, but to allow this proposal to be quickly adopted. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I conclude by saying to Mr Schweitzer that these user accesses – not published, Mr Stadler, in a daily journal, but in a weekly journal; you are more often mistaken – are being pursued in an internal investigation by a wide variety of institutions, including the family ministry. – First result of this study: Of course, this is, in principle, the routine persecution of what is happening in this area. This is one of the tasks of the family and my officials in this area, because it is about cleaning the Internet of child pornography. There you must and should be active! [[Abg. May. Stadler: You all haven't done anything!]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Did you find anything?]] If it turns out, Mr Schweitzer, that beyond service obligations has been surfed or 'used' or will have consequences! This will be done immediately by me! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Then you need to know what Wittmann has promoted!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I know that the Liberal Group is constantly trying to say that the government is promoting child abuse, the Federal Chancellor is supporting child abuse. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Pornography on the Internet!]] – That’s how it happened on 26 May. February of this year. This is certainly too far, Mr Deputies. However, I acknowledge that those who have just been held liable by Otto Mühl have made it relatively easy for a group like theirs to put art promotion and similar things more on a level with child abuse in the castle theatre and media presence he has had. – This is certainly not the case in this simplicity, but a sharper separation and a better control of what means of funding and, ultimately, a certain line of separation between what one has to accept of absolute freedom of art, and ultimately restrictions which one must also make in the allocation of means of taxation are certainly to be considered, given the case of Otto Mühl. This does not make the argument of a family minister who has committed himself to the fight against child abuse much easier. But the simplifyers are among us, and the bagatellisers are today mainly in the ranks of the liberal political groups and not in those of the government groups. [[Abg. Scheibner: What do we trade?]] Mr President. I thank you for granting the word.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e10682	Mrs Petrovic is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e10712	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! The intentions of this urgent request are clear. It is a process that has already been repeated many times. I also regret the fact that Mrs Primaria Povysil has tabled this request. The intentions are clear. They want to suggest to the public that there is some political force in this House that sympathizes with child abuses, which minimize the protection of the victims and beat themselves on the side of the perpetrators. – I tell you indisputably: That's not the case. All groups of this House – I assume – are interested in improving the protection of the victims. I also regret that there seems to be no agreement between the government parties – in some areas often small – which always leads to the possibility of such debates. Ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties! You will also have to consider whether it is possible, perhaps in a committee, to show the willingness to make compromises, instead of being constantly exposed to such a polemic, such a collection of undifferentiated and unrelated accusations. Ladies and gentlemen! No one here is attacking the party for child abuse. This debate on improving the protection of victims, especially during a process which I believe should be realized in Austria, has very little to do with a general debate on pornography or with the question of where the boundaries to commerce and where others, certainly more limits to art are to be drawn. And she has nothing to do with a publicity promotion or other members of the Federal Government, a publicity promotion, which you have always agreed to with the leaves that have been condemned here. That's what you're supposed to repeat. On the other hand, the request is also sad, Mrs Povysil, because it remains behind the announcements. If you were seriously concerned with improvements in procedural law, I will miss this in your request. For the question of limitation, the question of the protection of victims in the statement and during the process is not at all addressed in your application, but all necessary measures are required to combat child abuse. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You have probably forgotten that a request has already been made to Parliament!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: You only need to agree to this request! It's in the judicial committee!]] In this form it is such a rubber formulation that no concrete measures can be derived from it at all. [[Further calls to the liberals.]] I don't know why you're always so upset when you're trying to deal seriously with your statements. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You should be better informed! There is a request from us in the Committee on Justice.]] I'll talk to you about details if you just wait a little bit. On the other hand, I found it really bad, namely the comments made by the Federal Minister on the statements made by Mr Ofner in the direction of Mrs Fekter. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The Four Bands Against Children!]] Mr President. I also guard against expressions such as "four-bands" and the like! [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is a political expression of "real socialism"!]] You really use such a division only to diffamate the house in its entirety! [[Congratulations with the Greens, SPÖ and ÖVP as well as the Liberal Forum.]] In order to return to the comments of Mr Ofner, who left the room after he had apparently lost the content. It is not only that he has tried to make a professional group despicable, but also that he has made his statements – which is unfortunate today – a threesome sexist attack. For the question of whether a female Member is married or not, what professional activity her husband does or does not allow her to agree the legitimacy of taking a position in the House on the subject. [[Congratulations on the Greens, on MEPs from SPÖ and ÖVP and on the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol goes to the Bureau.]] Jobs You commit these sexist attacks – and then you will no longer be confronted with such accusations! [[Abg. May. Stadler: With raised index finger you go up there to threaten the president!]] I do not take your request, which remains behind all the announcements, even so seriously,... [[Abg. May. Stadler: With raised index finger against the "evil student Haider" Khol must demand an order call!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Please, Mr. Teacher, the Haider has said something bad!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] They seem to be very excited. I don't know why. In any case, the request does not seem to be very well considered. They seem to take Your own requests are not very serious. In points 1 and 2 of the statement of reasons for your application, you already apply for central reporting points for persons who are "suspected" to have sexually harassed minors. Please refer to child care providers, teachers and doctors. And then I take the APA from the following message – Original text Stadler –: "There is no solid evidence against this honorable old man"; Cardinal Groer is meant to be. It was not proven, and it was embarrassing... [[Abg. May. Stadler: Now the Cardinal is back on! Why don't you talk about the government? I'm sure she's happy!]] What do you want? If there should already be a point of notification in the mere suspicion, then this would probably apply to every person, especially if you call persons who could also benefit from the dependency relationship. Or don't you take your applications very seriously? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Since when is the Cardinal on the Internet?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haider.]] Mr Stadler, please read the requests before you seem to support them! [[Abg. May. Stadler: Talk to the government once! She's promoting pornography!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: She thinks if she has glasses, she already has another horizon!]] They seem very excited, and that will have its good reason. They call for the extension of the protection of victims, in particular in connection with the criminal offence of damages, including male victims. I also take the APA from the fact that in May this year a certain Mr Rumpold was supposed to have wrung a lawyer in his soft parts. As a result, there was a conviction in the first instance. – I don't know what this looks like with the better protection of male victims. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: In dubio pro reo!]] Surely, the principle "in dubio pro reo" applies, but you demand all of this in the face of suspicion. And such a thing will certainly be given in the event of a conviction in the first instance. So I don't know who's going into the soft parts and who's gonna protect the victims. [[Congratulations on the Greens, on MEPs from SPÖ and ÖVP and on the Liberal Forum.]] Another point: In your urgent request, Mr Barmüller has already referred to it, that all persons, organizations or media, who make pornography in any way depressing or accessible, should be excluded from any kind of support. – On the one hand, this probably concerns most of the daily media – that is what you should tell them – but on the other hand, I wonder if it is not also the FPÖ itself. In turn, I take the APA from the following incident: It is the current officials of the FPÖ who left the party only after that. They have been photographed on five pages in a very relevant way for the "Austrian Contact Magazine", "ÖKM", and films have also been distributed. I am now talking about the then liberal functional Jörg Genser and his wife Gabriele, members of the Lower Austrian FPÖ. In this one has apparently accumulated all kinds of things. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Abg. May. Barmüller: That was an election promise: "We are bringing movement into politics!"]] Apparently you should have been excluded from funding from the Lower Austrian FPÖ at the time, but this has not really happened. However, I would ask you from the FPÖ to end this summer politicization, but once again address the appeal to the government parties: Once again – including serious opposition politicians, we try to ensure that victims are protected more effectively, especially in the process.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e10984	Mr Scheibner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 7 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e11005	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! A Member – I think it was Mr Jarolim – called for a "level debate". [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: He didn't count on you there!]] Mr State Secretary! Probably because he came in after you, he meant you, because what you have put in your replica on our urgent request is such a low level that you have to go into the deepest basement of this house, you wanted to adjust to that level – and even then you wouldn't reach it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Fox: That's unheard of!]] It is immense what is happening here, ladies and gentlemen. This also applies to you from this honorable society, because you too, Mr Barmüller, have adapted yourself to this level with your contribution! [[Abg. May. Barmüller: Herbert, you have to tell your colleagues!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] What is the point of this proposal? – It’s about... [[Abg. Fox: That's unheard of!]] Yes, this is really unheard of when it comes to protecting children and ensuring that they do not create a climate through art subsidies in this country that favours and supports such things! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mrs Colleague, if you feel this is unheard of, I agree with you. Such debates, as you have done here, are really unheard of, are a scandal! And if you don't know anything, come back with the fascism cult. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: You can't close your eyes to reality!]] And if you don't know anything about it, you're excited that any Internet reports have become known. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: Herbert, why did you vote against it as...?]] [[Call to the liberals.]] Mr State Secretary and Minister Bartenstein too! No word on these things that have been put on the table here, no word from you, Mr State Secretary. Their responsibility and responsibility of the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, about the fact that with means of taxation real piglets – that is not art! – be promoted! You didn't say anything about it. It is not a question of allowing the alleged artist Mühl, a condemned child-skin, to appear somewhere, Mr State Secretary, that is all about other things you have to answer in your place of business. You said not to throw violence and art into a pot. – Mr State Secretary, what do you say to the parents who have brought about a disabled child who may have died if, with your subsidy, such images are published in a catalogue?- Oh, my God! [[The speaker briefly keeps a document up to date.]] And this is supposed to be art: Pictures of vulnerable and disabled children?- Oh, my God! This is still brought in the Biennial catalogue as an "international hanging sign" for Austria. What do you say? What about parents with disabled children? And what do you say parents whose children are sexually abused if in the same catalog such images are sold with your subsidy as "art"?- Oh, my God! [[The speaker holds an image in the height on which a penis directed against a baby is represented.]] There is a baby on which a penis is directed, where child abuse and child injury are directly called on! What do you say? You're asking the parents? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] What do you say to children and adults who have been abused in their youth, people who have to deal with the consequences of these crimes for life? What do you say? You these people, Mr. State Secretary? And what do you say about this when such publications get great prizes and are listed with public funding in theatres, for example among the then cultural representative Pühringer in the phoenix theatre in Upper Austria, publications in which it says: I'm fucking babies. "With eyes closed. I'll get into the mold. Fish me one. Fucks. Throw back to the others. All naked. All there." And on top of that: "Sometimes I catch a male. Let's have a female. Oh, it doesn't matter. Ring fingers and small fingers cover the notch in the flesh. The skin tip can be hidden between thumb and toe fingers. It's going to be cool in my mansard. Shave. Weird. I want to write a choice story. The middle finger. The Poloch. The Fontanelles. The tongueless mouth. Where I'm getting into. Where I'm slipping in. The pores that I've picked up against. My choice ambition. With eyes closed. - Yes, sir. - Yes, sir. Conquer. Every baby pore is a hole for life. I want to write a story about holes for life." - Quote. Mr State Secretary! What do you say parents whose children are sexually abused, why such nuisance and dirt is promoted, gets significant prices and is listed in theaters?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr State Secretary! That's what it's all about! It's not about attacking the freedom of art. There is freedom of art, and it must be held high. But there are also human rights and children's rights. These have no freedom when they are disgraced. What "freedom" do the children have in relation to such publications that encourage, indeed, such actions? Ladies and gentlemen! We have everything against an art in which under the cover "Freedom of Art" are actually lived out perversities that are criminally suspected. Mr State Secretary! With this urgent request, we want to see a rethinking process finally taking place with you and in this country that such publications, Mr Barmüller, on which Mother Teresa, who can no longer defend himself, is so misguided in such a way that such things are no longer possible – and if, then in secret, but not with state subsidies! [[Abg. May. Barmüller: Why did you always reject this?]] [[Abg. May. Barmüller: Herbert, why did you always reject that?]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intercom calls at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Povysil said: The abuse of children is murder. – I mean, we should not participate in such things. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: Then I would start in your place in the judicial committee!]] Mr Wittmann, State Secretary! I quote from the book "Babyicker". You should have this in mind once; You said you had children. Take this text, let your speech preplay how you have formulated it today, and when you come home, look at your child. And consider whether you have acted correctly with your speech on the occasion of our urgent request. Quote: "The babies sleep. Not just at night. Even during the day. If I fuck her. They used to roar all the time." [[Call the ÖVP: Stop! Hindiful!]] [[Further calls at SPÖ and ÖVP.]] "Now they always sleep."
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e11251	Mrs Povysil has made a statement on an actual correction. Maximum speaking time: 2 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen. [[Calls and calls between the ÖVP and the liberals.]] [[President Dr. Brauneder gives the bell sign the other day.]] Mrs Povysil has the floor. I would ask you to acknowledge this. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e11296	Mr President. Minister Bartenstein claimed there were no snuff videos. I quote from a study commissioned by his predecessor, Mrs Feldbrill-Zankel, from the so-called Knospe study: "The little one is on the back. Its legs are vertically connected to a heating tube. The bub shows no more reactions."
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e11329	Mrs Tegischer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 10 minutes maximum speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e11351	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! I have actually believed that it is undisputed and a matter of course that everyone in this House is in a sharp position against all kinds of violence against children and condemns it. Anyone who is serious about this matter – you can believe me, I have been doing this for years as a social worker and now as a politician – is trying to do the most possible to protect our children. I am sorry that the debate is now going in this direction. Despite the great excitement, I would like to come back to the heart of the proposal and look at this sensitive issue from a social pedagogical point of view. In your application, on page 1, you refer to the importance of setting up a central reporting centre per country, to which all cases where there is a mere suspicion of psychological, physical and sexual child abuse are to be reported. To this end, I would like to say the following: For a long time there has been a draft law written by the Ministry of Family Affairs regarding the establishment of such central reporting points. However, in most of the opinions, major concerns are expressed about the meaning and efficiency of such a notification body. I am glad that we will often have the opportunity to discuss this issue and this central reporting point so as not to be able to face the risk of an alibi procedure. I would like to highlight some concerns. The sole reporting obligation without extending the corresponding assistance may not be changeable. The activity of the Youth Office is thereby reduced to a social police task in the consciousness of the population. It is to be feared that when the central reporting structure becomes known, parents who tend to use internal family violence tend to use medical assistance more rarely in the future – or fear of law enforcement will no longer give their children medical care at all, take them to a doctor, or refuse to take care at all. It is particularly important to point out that even in the most difficult cases, even in cases of fatality, abuses in almost all cases were previously known to the authorities. There is therefore no lack of information, but there is insufficient human resources for such crises, and the material equipment of the aid facilities is missing. In addition, central reporting points would intensify the dynamics, as a group qualified for assistance would be charged with additional control tasks. I see the following possible alternatives to improving the protection of our children from violence – let me list some of them –: Infringements paid in serious cases by doctors must also be sent to youth welfare providers at the same time, in order to be able to take immediate social workers' steps in addition to the police investigation, otherwise information will take place early enough, but will often be sent to the youth offices with a delay of several weeks. In my opinion, it is also important to force targeted training of those professional groups who have the opportunity in their professional practice to perceive suspicious moments and to initiate a promotion of trusting cooperation with youth offices in the sense of developing cooperative networking structures. In addition, improved practice-related training of hospital staff, teachers and kindergartens is important, making it easier to recognize violence against minors and children. Equally important is the creation of a social labour plan for quality assurance, in the form of a research project, in order to involve really all the institutions responsible for preventing violence and preventing violence. I have already mentioned that I think prevention programmes are particularly important. And I would like to stress one particular point which I believe is a right way to protect our children. There is a prevention model in Tyrol – it is called "Sag no!" – where suggestions are given to teachers, kindergartens, educational and care staff. It sends the following messages to the children: You are alone in your body; your feelings are important; there are pleasant and unpleasant contacts; you have the right to say no; there are good and bad secrets; talk about them and seek help; you are not guilty. Children must be regarded as independent people with needs, desires and the right to respect, not as property or as necessary evil, which sometimes also has to conform to the sexual desires of adults. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] We need to create a networked service with qualified staff for our children. By repression we only reach the opposite of the objective. Mrs Povysil's urgent request is aimed at combating all symptoms, and therefore no problems can be solved. And above all: I am saddened by the experience and also by your attention during this debate, especially in real concrete proposals, given the seriousness of this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e11424	Mr Mühlbachler referred to an actual correction. The Rules of Procedure are known. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e11448	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In the previous debate, it was claimed that Mr. Landeshuptmann Dr. Josef Pühringer had promoted the Turrini piece "Der Babyficker" at the Phönix Theatre. I'll put it right: The phoenix theater receives a basic funding from the federal government, the country and the city of Linz. This basic support will be granted in advance, and it will not affect programme design in a positive or negative way, because otherwise it would be art-censorship.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e11489	Mrs Moser-Starrach is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e11510	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! There must be no excuse for child abuse! The last thing we want to do in this country is to be ashamed of children! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] But the urgent request we are now making has already been made at least twice as identically worded; last time on 26. Feb 1998. We, the representatives of the ÖVP, are already working in this direction. Mr Fekter has already mentioned which laws and novels have already been introduced and implemented here. We will be handing over 60 000 signatures to the President tomorrow to protect children from abuse. [[Abg. Young: Who rules this country?]] The government template on sexual offences and penetration will also be negotiated promptly and conscientiously in autumn. The hypocrisy is very interesting... Let me withdraw from the article "Haider's Porno Couples!" quote! [[Abg. Young: Who is actually ruling this country?]] This is the scandal of the couple Genser, who has also mentioned Mr Petrovic. In the interview, the "F" mandatar said: "I didn't know these photos would appear. The whole thing had turned out to be something after a conversation with acquaintances.” – You didn't know about Rosenstingl either, and it somehow turned out. In every human being, says Conrad Lorenz, there is latent aggression. He addresses it with the term "inner pig dog". We must not take anyone hostage – not the media, not the video producers – for this purpose, but we must put the framework conditions in order accordingly. For all things that do not vote in society, the individual person is ultimately responsible and responsible. – Once again one of my guiding principles: Make people competent; let them be proud of what they can do. Everyone is responsible for himself. There is a broad consensus among us about refusing violence. Nevertheless, we accept various bodies in the "Old", in "Commissioner Rex" and even in Schnittkes "Gesualdo". Science has a name for it: "third-person-effect." We have the vision, the others are the perils. – But the others say that too. So what is in the public debate in general is the pure, pure approach to action in connection with violence. What effects do these violent representations, depictions of terrible sexual assaults, reports and representations of suicide have? – They are trigger phenomena, trigger phenomena. The presentation only allows people to make a decision and to fan ideas. When we light up sexual violence, we have to make it clear that this was also very clear in the survey on 1st October. July 1998 "Garden and Horror" out –: For months to years, the environment should have signaled that something was going wrong. The environment, the narrowest environment has looked away, has not acted. Society does nothing good if it lies in the bag. Learning to deal with fear and threat is an essential aspect of our socialisation process. We should not let our children grow up in a fear-free and threat-free situation. That would be as if children were kept away from the sea for 20 years and then suddenly sent to the shore. – That’s not how it can be done! Our children belong to fear and threat under control. That was the well-founded opinion of media psychologist Professor Vitouch. Professor Friedrich carried out his thoughts with a picture: As long as a fairy tale is arrested in magic-animistic thinking, as long as the child can get involved in the narrational grandmother, the grandmother tells the fairy tale almost word-identically each time, and as long as the child experiences the happy outcome again and again, there may be a state of fear. My "red cap" looks very different from yours. Your imagination must be visualized. The own imagination! When scenes are taken with sexual atrocities, they are replicateable, and in this rehearsal Professor Friedrich also sees the great danger. Book pages can be printed in a very targeted way. In my youth, for example, I loved Auguste Lechner's books. But at the place where the famous black stallion sank in the driftsand without rescue, I turned straight over it every time. Yes, beyond that, I looked out the pages before and crossed them all in a swing. It goes with books – not in a movie! From the psychological sciences we know: If something has shifted into the subcortical area, i.e. into the unconscious, then it appears from this area, marks again and again. The rehearsal destroys our imagination! Our most important sexual organ is the head! The film destroys our imagination – at least when sexuality is reduced to genitality and content to brutality. Back to the learning of fear management strategies and the strengthening of our children: Children need to be protected, supported and promoted. We have two projects that are not well known. The first is a sexual education project: Talk to each other, learn from each other: Specially trained sexual therapists develop a targeted strengthening program for our youngsters with students, parents and teachers. All are equally excited to get targeted answers to questions without ending. The languagelessness is thus finally eliminated. The second project, the "Green Potato Youth Project", serves to strengthen self-confidence, to expand and deepen social skills, to playful mediation of psychological knowledge and a gentle way of self-experience to cope with conflict situations – and to be strong when it applies, this conscious "no!" President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Aids are on the difficult path to growing up. I started with Conrad Lorenz and would like to end with his student Irenaeus Eibl-Eibesfeldt: We people are generalists, highly gifted cultural worlds and are able to determine objectives, future-oriented further developments, so learn from mistakes in good time and correct our course accordingly. In developing a cross-generational survival setho, we should be guided more by our pro-social causes of care than by our repressive efforts to dominate. Foreign Minister and Vice-Cancecian Dr Wolfgang Schüssel said very clearly today that it is important to address this issue also in the UN. At my conclusion I would like to add Pope John Paul II. He said: "I would like to raise my voice for those who have little of their own." I would like to help and support those who put all their efforts into the service of our children who have been injured: the children's protection groups, which are now being created throughout Austria, for example in the Vienna AKH, at the national clinics and in the district hospitals, to my great joy.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e11591	Mrs Bures is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e11613	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I am always pleased to have a public discussion on a subject which, unfortunately, has been hidden and hidden for too long. I find it only at the same time – precisely because I stand up for this public discussion and think it so important – unfortunate in what form and on what occasion this discussion is being held today. I therefore consider this discussion necessary – including the many years since it succeeded in carrying the disgusting issue of "sexual child abuse" to the public – because it has led to a higher sensitivity in the population, but also to the same extent – this is also important to me – because it has strengthened the courage of the victims to break their silence. Who are the victims of sexual abuse? – There are studies into the fact that there is a dark number of 10,000 to 25,000 children in Austria, which are affected by it. Every fourth woman in Austria had to do with sexual abuse. I believe that these victims have not deserved a discussion of this kind. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the discussion about the perpetrators, it is often as if sexual child abuse is a bad man in the background that no one knows. – The affected children know most of the perpetrators: It is often the fathers who "good uncle", so it is the family in which sexual child abuse takes place. That is why I am very pleased that we have discussed and decided on a package of measures in the House in particular in the area of the family, where violence begins. I would like to draw up a very important point, namely the introduction of a security police right for violent agents from the common family association. It was high time not women with their children – abused women, sexually abused women and children – fled, but were offered the opportunity to stay in their home environment. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In this context, I would like to know how the liberals justify their voting behaviour and their discussions on the way in which the violent perpetrators are turned away from the family association. They voted against when it came to real victim protection. They are on the side of the violent perpetrators in the families. [[Intercession with the liberals.]] I would like to put this to you with two quotations from the discussion on the right of directions. Mr Ofner said in this debate: But we are also in favour of leaving the church in the village. We believe that it should not be enough for sanctions if someone threatens another violence, for example in the form that he says: You get an ear fig. We also believe that a certain minimum level of violence should be required in this context. - Quote. This is the position of the Freedom Party on the issue of nonviolence, violence in the family. That was one of the reasons why she voted against the right of directions. A second reason is very close to the previously quoted one. When it came to how to protect the victims in the families, who could actually protect the weak, Mr Lammer expressed his concern in the discussion about how to protect the male violent offender. How can we protect the "poor men"? Quote: "It is likely that the men will have to sleep under the bridge - those who beat women and children - because they will not be accommodated anywhere else." This seems to be your actual access to this issue, and this has also been shown in the decision-making of the right of directions. I believe that there are a number of measures in which you can actually recognize your position by your voting behaviour. You are making a request today, in which you are sometimes calling for measures which have already been implemented or which you are aware of, on the other hand, that they are in the house for processing. We will then measure you by how you will really vote on it. I would also like to say that in this House the fight against sexual abuse has not only been discussed, but also that a number of concrete measures have already been adopted. In the course of the discussion on the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, we have introduced the facts of the possession of pornographic machinations. We have also introduced the damage to victims of sexual abuse. And we will continue to work in the field of consumer protection, for example, the "soft consultation" of children – so that this happens as carefully as possible. I already know – that to the Freedom Party – that one can follow the call for criminal law only and only. Of course, criminal law plays a major role in this respect, but criminal law alone is not enough. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Did you actually listen to Mrs. Povysil?]] Mr Tegischer has also addressed this problem. The great disadvantage of criminal law is that it is too late for persecution. At that time, abuse has already taken place. Therefore, the most important question is how to trace the causes of sexual abuse in order to remedy this abuse. These areas, such as strengthening self-confidence and children's rights, can really make a preventive contribution to the failure of this form of violence. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] They of the liberals have difficulty in raising children to freedom of violence and tolerance in this country. I would like to ask you to do so in this context. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I say to you as one who, as I have said, has the greatest interest in having this discussion and will contribute to finding arrangements to ensure that children and women are effectively protected: You have not done a good job to the affected women and children with the discussion you have conducted here. I think your discussions were embarrassing!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e11687	The next speaker is Mr Stadler. His club still has a speaking time of 9 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e11709	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr State Secretary, you have read a well-prepared speech today, as usual. Then you tried to extemporate – and that was wrong. But today you would have had the opportunity to get up – not smile – and say: All right, I didn't know we were promoting the Internet and so porn clubs. I'm not right, I'm going to take this off. – No syllables of it! The father of the family Wittmann! Then the Minister of the Family will stand up from the ÖVP, only pour out the liberals for half a speech and will not once bring about his lips that he is not right for the Federal Government to promote porn clubs, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The Federal Minister has explained that in his ministry – as in his own parliamentary club – he is constantly surfing in the porn channels of the Internet. I'd be interested in who's with the ÖVP. This is one of the most numerous surfers – not the Ministry, but the ÖVP Club leads the hit list with a total of 382 access at the beginning of June. 382! Research Once again, Mrs. Moser, who is surfing around you! That won't be the one who tries to find out for Mr Bartenstein in the family ministry – only he won't find out! – whether Mr Wittmann is promoting porn clubs on the Internet. No, it will be those who can handle things very well, Mrs. Moser! That's where Mrs. Fekter doesn't need to tell me about it because they'd been out of the canal. Then all the blacks in the Lower Austrian state government, who led the hitlist behind the magistrate of the city of Vienna, would have left behind. The officials of the Vorarlberg State Government: 887 requests, the Tyrolean state government, Mrs Moser, your own state government – Mr. Landeshuptmann knows you well –: 446 requests, ladies and gentlemen! It's all in early June. Not invented by me, given by an ÖVP newspaper from Styria to the best! And that's why you need to know what's happening here. No one brings a word of regret over the lips. No, you try, like Mrs Petrovic, to compare some single-bed history with child abuse in the ÖKM. There you can see what kind of thinking lies behind this: It's not about the kids. No, no, no, If we try to protect children, then any EKM stories are told, ladies and gentlemen! This shows how abjectly these people despise the children in this country! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Disdain for the children of this country – this is the policy that has been best given today! Then you, Mrs. Moser, still quoted the Pope. The Pope did not deserve you to quote him in this regard. Your wife, Federal Minister Gehrer, is responsible for this – this is your party friend, if you have forgotten that – as well as the surfers of your club, that such things hang in the museums of this country. [[The speaker keeps reproductions of works by Otto Mühls in height.]] Such things hang in the museums of this country! Do you think I invented this, Mrs. Moser? Do you recognize that again? – This is the responsibility of the ÖVP. Mrs Gehrer has the responsibility for this! Ladies and gentlemen! That's not enough! [[The speaker shows a further reproduction of a work by Otto Mühl and puts it before himself on the speaker's desk.]] This is your federal government, Mrs. Moser – if you already quote the Pope – which detests Mother Teresa in the Secession. Ladies and gentlemen! I don't know if you've ever seen the picture, whether you're reading a newspaper other than the "Tyrol daily", Mrs. Moser. It's your Federal Ministers! These piglets are funded by the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Your own party leader is promoting this. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Moser! Would it not be time for him to speak to your party president instead of calling on the Pope to stop such things? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The Cardinal not only serves to increase Mrs Petrovic, but also, of course, to increase Mr Mühl, Mr Mühl, who is so much supported. These pictures, ladies and gentlemen, and especially those pictures on which children are presented – by the way, with a member of your parliamentary club, there he sits – serve to suggest to the public that Mr Mühl belongs to us again, to the good society, and the victims he has abused – read the case file! – are the fools of this country. [[the speaker shows further reproductions of works by Otto Mühls]] There's your policy, your hypocrisy, your groundless hypocrisy that you've given best today! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mrs Moser! You should be ashamed of it! I have always believed that you, as a former family minister, at least still know what it is all about. You've been a family minister once. You didn't leave a lot of traces, but you were once responsible for this place. Today, as a family minister, you would have had the duty to make up for what your own family minister – at present still in service – has failed: to apologise to the children for the fact that the government of this country is repeatedly promoting child abuse! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Then your own party friend, Mrs. Fekter – and I don't want to go into her profession now, she doesn't have much idea about the case law! – here at the speaker’s desk and demands protection for the Internet users of the ÖVP club. It says that data protection has been violated and that criminal law for data protection has to be improved. Ferklei had to be protected, not the children! – This is the concern of the chairman of the Austrian Parliament’s judicial committee. Yes, Mrs. Fekter, tell me! Don't turn your fingers now! That's what you said here today. I don't know if you have a few minutes left to talk. You can come down and say: I apologise for that! – That would be enough! For you are responsible for all these things and for this environment. Give hypocrisy the best on the Internet, that's your policy. Talk outside Parliament You are always different from here, like your colleague Horngacher, who is currently doing an action "Children Need Us" in Tyrol. "Don't look away!" she says. Then a signature collection action is carried out. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: 60,000 signatures we already have!]] Yes, wonderful! These 60,000 signatures are a reproach to you, Mrs. Fekter. These 60 000 signatures have been submitted to your party for the cat, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] One of the demands is – Mrs Horngacher, correct me if it is not –: Legal arrangements for Internet providers for the protection of young people and children. – In your own club you should put it into practice once! The people who access child pornography on the Internet sit in their own club. Do this once in your own club, and then you have started something with these 60,000 signatures and not only have the signers around the nose, Mrs. Horngacher! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You may have rang in with us in the club!]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Oh, I sounded in? My God, Mrs. Fekter! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Who knows?]] You wanted data protection, Mrs. Fekter. Let's take a look at your user network and see who it was. I'll make you an offer, Mrs. Fekter: Let's see who your users are! I think there would be an evil surprise from one of your parliamentary clubs, including the President of the Justice Committee. Primitive, President of the Justice Committee, is no longer possible! Your own club is the summit of hypocrisy! That the other part of what is called "four-band" in Marxism in China, that the rest of this "four-band" represents the attitude that Mr. Jarolim gave the best, which he said today – I quote him literally – he regrets that Mrs. Povysil has not dealt with the issue of child abuse objectively... – But yes, Mr. Jarolim! [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: More material than you!]] How treacherous language can be! You see a material problem in the child. [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! So only someone who disdains the child can talk. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: You're the last!]] Thus, one can only speak if one has no sense of what a sensitive, vulnerable being is a child, if one has no sense of a child’s shame in life, if one favours the sexual abuse of a child, just as your federal government does. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Why did you vote against it?]] If one does, then one can speak so quickly of the need to deal with the issue of child abuse objectively. Ladies and gentlemen! That's what I want to say: This attitude of your State Secretary, your Federal Chancellor, your Minister of Family, your committee chairman, your wife's ex-family minister, is in favour of all of this. This attitude is facing the charge today! - No, Mrs. Moser, you quoted the Pope here today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Sonja Moser-Starrach.]] You have called on the Pope in a well-prepared and up-to-date speech that your secretary has written to you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e11890	Please ask for the final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e11905	Today, as a former family minister, you have failed to make up for what your government, which – and I repeat it once again – has permanently taken up in promoting porno-unifications, has not achieved today.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e11935	Mr. Dr. Jarolim! One second. I have not heard the previous discussion, and therefore I have been very difficult to intervene now in some way. I also know that this is a very difficult and delicate issue. But since there are more words now, I would like to say that I mean that we can deal with this subject without unabated "groundless hypocrisy" and so on. I say once again, you have to take everything very seriously, but I think you can find a language that expresses it differently. Mr Jarolim has now come to speak. The speaking time is... [[Abg. Dr. Graf: I hope you will read through the other debates too!]] – I do not need any admonition, honourable Member! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: If you have no idea about the debate...!]] [[Abg. Grabner: But you!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: We were there!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: In contrast to the tomb, we were there!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Always these censorships in one direction!]] Mr Dr. Jarolim, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e12031	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, I just wanted to report on an actual correction. But since Mr Stadler's statement makes it necessary to pick up a little more here...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e12047	Please, you can't! You have reported an actual correction, and I therefore ask you to make an actual correction.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e12076	I'm actually correcting: Mr Stadler said in his speech that I would have said that children were a matter. - That's wrong. I have said that this House, in its responsibility, has to ensure that we act in favour of the protection of children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e12107	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Schwimmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e12128	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Child abuse and child pornography are things to do not just talk about, but against which you have to do something with determination. The EIA and the Coalition Government do so in order to see that with all clarity. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: (one of his previously shown reproductions high) That's what you see!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: That's what you're promoting!]] I do not want to question the fact that the FPÖ has the same intention. However, the intention of today's urgent request was not to enforce measures against child abuse and child pornography, because the nature of the debate was unfortunately very revealing. Mr Mag. Stadler! You didn't let me down. Your statements have met my expectations. But I have been surprised by other Members of your group. Dr. Ofner, for example, has stopped in his actual correction with a really sexistic remark that one must reject. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] That a colleague with her husband's profession would be qualified here, I did not agree with Dr. Ofner, I admit that quite openly. Mr Krüger, whom I think is one of the most serious Members of the 'F', who did not address a Member of my group, but rather a Member of the Liberal Forum, I think is really cruel, I must say. [[Abg. May. Stadler: (one of his previously shown reproductions high) What is that? That's horrendous! That's what the Minister encouraged!]] Mr Mag. Stadler! It is terrible to say here that this figure belonged to its professional right. I often disagree with this honourable Member. I'm very often quite different from him. But every Member here in this House is for me a human being, a human being, and no figure. You said "figure," Dr. Krüger. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ, the Liberal Forum and the Greens.]] They wanted him here at the same time to meet his professional honor. I really think this is unacceptable, and I am disappointed that you have done so. You can't talk like that. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Say something to the barmüller!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Tell me what the barmüller said to the Krüger!]] I trust Dr. Haider a lot. I also trust him that he knows himself on the Internet and that he can deal with this modern medium. At the power. I don't really know about it, but you can be sure, Dr. Haider. Magnificence, too. Stadler can do that for sure. [[Abg. Haigermoser: What can he do?]] In the news release to which he refers, which I doubt in their figures – I will tell you immediately why – it was expressly stated that access to the ÖVP server was made via links. [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] - Wait, don't laugh! The matter is far too serious. The issue as a whole is far too serious, and such an accusation is far too serious. What does "links" mean in connection with the Internet? – You will find on one homepage references to another. You get in at the first homepage, surf and see, there is an interesting hint. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is the case with the Lower Austrian state government! That is the case with the Tyrolean state government! This is the case with the Vorarlberg state government! That's fair black!]] So from the homepage of the state government you come to the homepage of the Federal Government, you come to the homepage of the presidential office, you come to the homepage of the Austrian Press Agency and so on. [[Abg. May. Stadler: These are loud blacks!]] I know, Mr Mag. Stadler, the FPÖ has an interesting homepage, and in my opinion this is also very significant: On the homepage of the FPÖ there are only blue links. [[Abg. May. Stadler: But you can find no porn with us!]] You can only surf in your own juice there, as it were. They no longer come out of the FPÖ. The ÖVP has a homepage with its own page with links to ministries, state governments, even to other parties – why not? – also on Austrian media, including a renowned weekly magazine, which – this is its issue – has an erotic page. From this erotic page you come directly to this AEC. [[Abg. May. Stadler: How is the Vorarlberg State Government? What about the Lower Austrian state government, the Tyrolean state government, the Ministry of the Environment, Youth and Family?]] If you like. Stadler on the ÖVP side selected and coming from there to AEC, the ÖVP really can't do anything for it. Certainly not! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] By the way, the figures do not vote either – unfortunately, God. I would like there to be only so few visitors on this homepage. I looked at the statistics page. There are 1.6 million visitors daily on this site, and the thirtyth visitor has about 8,000 visits. So the whole numbers are a holler, and you could've given it to yourself. I'll be back on the subject. This coalition government has already, together, been able to achieve that Austrian jurisdiction has also been introduced in the case of sexual offences abroad. Criminality, especially child pornography, has been substantially increased. An intangible right of compensation for the victims of sexual acts was created, and against the voices of the FPÖ a right of way for violent perpetrators in the family was decided, an essential measure in the fight against violence in the family. These are the concrete measures we need – and not your unwarranted accusations!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e12345	Mr Krüger, rapporteur, spoke to the House for an actual correction. You know the rules. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e12369	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schwimmer has made the claim that I would have said about Mr Barmüller that he was a member of the list of lawyers. I am indeed correct in saying that Mr Barmüller is not included in the list of Austrian lawyers. However, I do not hide that I have expressed my satisfaction at this, because the under stand he has given me today that I have a dire relationship with the victims of National Socialism...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e12394	Please see the actual correction!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e12409	..., I never took it here.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e12448	The next speaker is Mr. State Secretary Dr. Wittmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e12469	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I think that this kind of policy of a party that accuses the members of the Federal Government, but also the other Members here in the House of promoting child abuse, sheds a significant light on the morals of this party. [[Abg. May. Stadler: (representing a reproduction of a work by Otto Mühl during his speech) That's your policy!]] [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: No polemics from the government bank!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Apologize to the children for the pigs you promote!]] We assume that child abuse constitutes a human rights abuse that belongs to fighting at all levels. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Apologize to the children for the pigs you promote! That's the only thing you have to do here!]] And this is the premise under which this government is acting, and here we are trying to find solutions. I strongly reject the accusation of promoting child pornography through the promotion of art! This is a premise. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is obvious! That's what you've financed!]] To the Public Netbase, led by Mr Schweitzer: This is an association for art and new technology. This association is promoted by the Federal Chancellery with a basic funding and deals with the new technologies and art. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Now he's admitting it for the first time!]] This association makes an event called "Sexnet", and with this event the sex on the Internet and the rise of pornography on the Internet is to be treated critically. The aim is to deal critically with this issue in order to prevent such a way of dealing with manifestations on the Internet. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Don't be ridiculous!]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer holds a sheet with the label "SEX" in the height]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Don't you create yourself? Shame at last!]] This is a critical, offensive debate on this issue on the Internet. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Don't you create yourself for this justification?]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Shame and sit!]] I would like to point out that the Secretariat of Art does not promote this event, but provides a basic support for the Public Netbase, which is regarded as a recognised institution in the field of art and new technology. I would also like to say that it is not enough to look at the pictures, but it is also necessary to read the texts that condemn them. It is not intended to consume the images, but to read the intellectual content that lies behind them. [[Abg. Meisinger: Incredible!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] In this discussion, you should not provoke a representation in which you equate violence and child pornography with art. I think that is a level that this House does not deserve. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Your level!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: We don't need your note!]] Nor does it happen, nor is it supported by the Federal Government. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Shame!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] In this discussion, we do not want to have a principle discussion on art and art bans. We serve experts who decide what art should be and what it should not be art. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Who use Parliament! Who do you think you are?]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Generate yourself for such justification!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: We will highlight this word message!]] This discussion is about child abuse. I note that it is a cheap polemic to throw art and violence against children into a pot. I refuse to be unanswered, and I note once again that child abuse is a human rights abuse for us that belongs to fighting.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e12822	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We shall vote on Mrs Povysil's request for the protection of children from child abuse and child pornography. I should like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of this motion give Dr Povysil a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. This concludes the negotiation of the urgent request and the vote. Short debate on deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e12863	The next item is the short-term debate on the request of Mrs Schaffenrath, the Committee on Education for Reporting on Amendment 438/A (E) concerning the introduction of an Ethical Education as an Electoral Question, is a matter of time up to the age of 20. ==References== We are going into the debate. The first speaker or the first speaker has a speaking time of 10 minutes; all subsequent speakers are allowed to speak for 5 minutes. Please, Mrs. Maria Schaffenrath.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e12894	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, I do not see Mr Höchtl now. [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: (the hand lifting) Here!]] Oh, you're in the first row. Mr Höchtl, you said today, according to APA, that you are surprised that we Liberals are requesting a deadline for a request that did not appear so urgent ten days ago. [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: I asked six times!]] I would like to ask you, Mr Höchtl: It is true that we were not in a hurry with this request, especially because we have developed our position towards ethics in the field of Ethics in the field of Ethics for all students in the Austrian education system. But that we demand this deadline today has nothing to do with hypocrisy, as you put it to us, but with the completely changed political level in this country. As part of the "Press Hours", her Minister of Education has quite a vehement attitude to the subject of Ethics – Ethics teaching as an Electoral Subject! – Opinion adopted. [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: Not compulsory...! Obligation...!]] For all those who unsubscribe from religious teaching, there may be an obligation to teach ethics. [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: This is not an obligation to vote!]] ==References====External links== In July, APA made a statement on this issue. We were not only surprised, Mr Klubobmann Khol, but rather pleased about your – although very late – insight, Mr Klubobmann Khol, that an ethics teaching in the Austrian school system is at least important. [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: That was always our position!]] This late insight has made me particularly happy as a Tyrolean, Mr Klubobmann Khol, because in 1994 the Tyrolean People's Party called the introduction of an Ethics campaign as a reason not to vote in the Liberal Forum. I hope that this will not leave you any Tyrolean voters. Mr Kukacka warmly welcomed Mr Khol's request, and he said that we should finally have taken on an incentive. In view of all these circumstances, a new situation has arisen, and I believe that a discussion on a subject of education would be important in the Committee. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Mr Khol has given this subject a different name, and he should now call it "religions, cultures and values", but on behalf of him it will not be, Mr Khol, even though I do not understand why you have difficulty with the term "ethics" to such an extent, especially since you know – above all you know – that ethics is nothing but the doctrine of the moral will and action of man in different areas of life. You should know, in fact, that in the Ethics curriculum, exactly those areas of teaching education are intended to be located in the field of religion. Mr Stadler! Your speech today in the APA has, on the one hand, surprised me very much and on the other, less. She therefore surprised me very much because this criticism – it was addressed to the ÖVP – which could only please me, because it makes it clear that the Liberals are those who stand for ethics – comes from a party that was once a clear separation from church and state a very essential concern. Several principles are not always taken seriously in the Freedom Party and are sometimes also left to the personal popularity of Mr Stadler, but that is your case and lies in your decision. But one thing I would like to say to you, Mr Stadler: I also criticise the teachers' and teachers' union, but what you have done in the said APA issue, namely, that they under stand all teachers in Austria as moral commissioners, loyal moral guardians, and thus accused them of manipulation, I really think it is worrying, especially since – and you have forgotten this – in the context of the current school attempt, religious teachers and religious teachers in particular care for this free matter. But this is also your business, and you will have to explain this to the Austrian teachers. It is remarkable, Mr Stadler, but the fact that your criticism of Klubobmann Khol has moved Mr Klubobmann very quickly to one of my opinion quite curious withdrawal. Your position, Mr Khol, which you have now tried to bring to the public via media has been more confused than explained. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: But you're easy to confuse!]] Well, you said in your APA message at 10.21 p.m., so many students would unsubscribe. You have also stressed that those students who have signed out of religious teaching should be taught basic values. Then you said in the interpretation that Mr. Stadler had deliberately twisted your statement. It would only mean a lack of confession, because for members of a confession, religious teaching remained as a subject of duty. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Yes!]] You really have to explain this, because what happens then to those students who quit religious teaching, and that is at least every or every second? [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: No, no!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That must be yours!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Only Liberals!]] The trend is rising. [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Don't rain up like that! The lead came from your own clubman! These attacks are really not appropriate now! – No, Mr. Klubobmann Khol has already reached 2nd place. Mr Gehrer, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. [[Abg. May. Stadler: From the Minister!]] You will still have to explain which teaching model you want to develop: an optional subject or a compulsory subject for the unemployed? Mr Khol! I think you disagreed with yourself. The fact is, however, that religious teaching loses attractiveness and that the number of students who leave school is very much on the rise. I think it is bad that, at a time when there is a very large social dynamic in which there are different life-designs or goals, a very large number of students are not actually able to provide any help in an ethical value-orientation. There has long been a path to this question in Austria: On the one hand, there is indeed an insidious attempt to ensure the privileges of the Church – I say with emphasis –, especially the Catholic Church, as the sole mediator for values issues, and on the other hand, you firmly ignore the situation that many students do not attend religious instruction at all. Mr. Klubobmann Khol! There is nothing to do with criticizing the loss of values of young people in Sunday's speeches and summarizing these Sunday speeches in a book, but on the other hand, this alarming situation at the Austrian schools, which still represent very important educational institutions in our Republic, does not change. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Also on the working day! Sunday's speeches might be you, I don't!]] We Liberals want an objective discussion in committee. We would be pleased if the EIA would also acknowledge color in this matter if the Minister not only made announcements but would also show a willingness to act in this area. To us liberals, the introduction of ethics has always been a very important concern. We want to know him introduced for all students. Mr Khol! No matter how much you want to baptize this subject of instruction, it's not easy for you to do so. In any case, we will insist that these long-term discussions will finally come to an end and that our young people will receive the help they need in the direction of values they need so urgently.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e13096	The further speaking times are now 5 minutes each. Mr Antoni spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e13121	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. High house! Since the discussion about the introduction of ethics, we Socialists have always expressed our support for an objective and unemotional discussion. We believe that this is not a matter of day-to-day policy, which requires short-term decision, but a very sensitive matter, and we do not believe that it is necessary. ==References====External links== In our opinion, November is not necessary. Ladies and gentlemen. We have, however, repeatedly stressed that we are happy to agree with school attempts on ethics. We also consider it very important that there are different models in this respect which are tested so that decisions can be prepared and based accordingly. In fact, a look at the school's curriculums on ethics makes it very clear that teachers are involved and are moving a lot. However, it is crucial for us Social Democrats that the teaching of ethics is put on a voluntary basis and that no student, including those who quit religious teaching, should be forced to attend the teaching of ethics. We can therefore do nothing about the request of the Liberal Forum, which provides for an electoral field, namely religious or ethics. In fact, we feel a disadvantage for all those students who want to attend religious education as a subject. You would no longer have a chance to visit an ethical subject that we can imagine as a non-binding exercise, as an object of free will. I mean, the wider the offer, the more sensible it is for young people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The fact is that today, in a number of areas of education, whether in the field of philosophy, history, psychology, German, biology and many other fields, there is quite the possibility and is also perceived to involve elements of ethics. I think this is good and valuable. When this discussion began, I once encouraged a press release that would provide an overview of the major regions of the world. This should be carried out, if possible, by representatives of the great religions, so that there is a corresponding authenticity. I believe that through an optimal participation and a solid discussion in this field of learning, history and foundations of different cultures and above all the importance of religions can be very well understood. But I think that beyond the religious and philosophical sphere of ethics, there is also the possibility for students to develop social values and to judge and act with value, through the mediation and reflection of different social standards and values. I mean by this the different positions that man has in the social network: man as an individual himself; man in relation to You, that is, to the other; man as part of a family or a community of life; man as part of society; man as a cultural being or man in nature, in the fellow world at all. Again: We have a positive attitude to ethics, we say an absolute yes to that. This should be done on a voluntary basis and, as I have already said, as far as possible, within the framework of a free article or a non-binding exercise, so that everyone interested in this additional information can really perceive this possibility. Students, teachers and parents should decide on this at school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e13178	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Khol. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e13199	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The problem is known: Religious teaching meets only those students who belong to a confession who have religious instruction at school. The number of those with no confession increases. There is a prognosis that states that in 2010 the 40 percent of students will be unrestrained. This presents the problem that some of the children have religious teaching and some of the children have no religious teaching. There are, therefore, serious considerations as to how one can meet the objectives of our school legislation, namely to learn value, even for children who do not come to enjoy religious teaching. In this context, Ms Gehrer has started eight school trials throughout the federal territory. The results of these school tests are pending. My opinion, which has caused an admirable acceleration in the creation of the Liberal Forum, for which I am even grateful – without adage, Mrs. Schaffenrath – I have said literally in the "Kathpress". So that I can fix your confusion, I can read it now: "Khol: For compulsory, religions, cultures and values". For ‘a serious debate’ on the question of a subject of compulsory education, which is intended to deal with ‘religions, cultures and values’, ÖVP-Klubobmann Abg. NR Dr. Andreas Khol. At a press conference in Parliament on Thursday, in which the Austrian Cartel Association (ÖCV) presented its educational concept, Khol expressed his personal opinion that such a subject should not be a ‘blabla subject’, but rather a knowledge and value transfer. It should also not be a competition for religious instruction. Based on the forecast that in 2010, around 40 percent of students will be without a religious commitment, however, it is the task of the education system, including those students who have signed out from religious religious teaching, to convey basic values, Khol stressed. There are already promising school attempts in this direction, whose results must be expected." I believe that everything is said: a subject of duty; no competition for religious instruction. The contents are covered by what is also contained in the Liberals' request, that is, artistic elements, religions and cultures, but also by learning values – a very important teaching goal. The main address, Mrs Schaffenrath, is, in my opinion, those who have a right to receive education within the meaning of the target paragraph. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: But, my colleague...]] Of course, I know that students get away from religious education in different ways – after compulsory school; in compulsory school it is very little, less than two percent. In the AHS and the BHS it is regionally different. I believe that if it is a matter of duty, the students who sign up for religious instruction will participate in this compulsory subject of "religions, cultures and values". But the target group is not the unsubscribed ones – I wanted to express it – but the non-confessive ones who should also learn to appreciate. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: That comes out at the same time!]] We're not for the deadline. I've already done this in my broadcast on 2 October. In July, because I believe that there are these eight school attempts; these eight school tests are accompanied. In a working group, for example, Mrs Brinek has already evaluated intermediate results in terms of curriculum, teaching methods and teachers. I believe that we still have to wait for the outcome of the school tests, and I am entirely of the opinion of Mrs Gehrer that we should leave them for one or two years. The problem is not so urgent. I have said that in 2010, the time when there will be a lot of no-confessions will come, so that it is necessary, then, in all peace and consensus, to lead this realization of the target section of our school education law. I hope that this objective section of the School Education Act, which the Liberal Forum actually wants to delete or amend and supplement – the religious should not be – will continue to exist. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: No! Add to that!]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e13266	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e13288	Mr President. High house! Konrad Paul Liessmann wrote on the topic of ethics: That virtue is instructable was one of the most successful misevaluations of ancient philosophy. If we look at the recent debates on the introduction of so-called ethics teaching in Austrian schools, we could believe that some people are doing everything they can to repeat this error. Then he writes: The fact that, according to the competent minister's proposal, a short course at a pedagogical institute is intended to enable ethics to be taught is, in any case, the worst fear. More than a moralinsaur family lesson will probably not come out of it. - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Liessmann did not write this now, but this was already read in the "standard" in June 1997. As long ago as it has been that the woman minister is pregnant with this idea – although she is now disputing it – that the woman minister – like the colleague Khol, who is now also disputing it – co-chains with this idea, because this idea on the left edge of the Austrian People's Party – for one fears to lose the Liberal Forum – is of course popular. This is embarrassing to the ÖVP Klubobmann today, but it is. That is why there is a certain degree of rivalry on this issue – Mrs Schaffenrath, you are absolutely right – because the ÖVP does not know on which side it should now fall. Should it fall to your side, as it were, or should it fall on our side? We liberals have in themselves determined how we behave on this issue. - I know you too. – We said quite clearly in the party programme: For us, a teaching of ethics as a substitute for religious instruction does not come into question! – I stay there, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I remain, Mr Schaffenrath, because I do not wish to have a moral, ethical building, developed for more than 2,000 years, based on a religious attitude and confession, replaced by some nebulosis, moral guardians and some moral commissioners in any ministry. You know: The ethics we have previously debated is shown in the pictures of Mr Mühl, in the subsidy policy of the Austrian Federal Government. Therefore, I have reservations about giving these people the competence to define which ethics is to be taught at school, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In this respect, I have massive reservations, and I remain. Ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party! I know your clubman falls in every direction. It's just the question of which medium it's being interviewed or who's just his listeners. But you should really be careful! With the teaching of ethics, religious teaching will not only fail, but it will even be abolished in the long run. Because that is what I guarantee you – we also told the bishops: This teaching of ethics will experience any support that this Republic has to be given, any attractiveness that this Republic can afford, ladies and gentlemen, compared to conventional religious teaching, which is already heavy in this secularized world of today. Therefore, our demand is... – I say it is legitimate to stand up for it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schaffenrath.]] But it is not legitimate to pursue this changing-wreck policy of the Austrian People's Party. You should finally decide where you want to go! You always tell the clerical audience in your party how much you fight for religious instruction. At the same time, you stand for an ethics lesson – and that is my concern for the representatives of the ÖVP – which I would like to expressly warn against. This will be made more attractive, only from the instructional order! From public funding alone, it will be made more attractive than religious teaching can ever be. That is why our demand is... [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: He won't!]] Mr Höchtl! Of course it's going to run like that. [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: But why?]] You have given up your positions in school policy in the last 30 years step by step, time and again, millimeters for millimeters and with this you have done the left boost, and now you want to do so in religious education! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I therefore warn you that you do not believe... – Yes, I know you love this audience, Mrs. Rauch-Kallat. [[Intrusion of the Abg. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] I know you are the liberal conscience, you are the Liberal Forum within the Austrian People's Party. – No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It is the LIF of the Austrian People's Party. She wants such a thing because she believes it is time-consuming and modern. I'm not appealing to you, you can agree with Mrs Schaffenrath. I appeal to the reasonable people and school politicians in your ranks, which there should also be: Create If you don't finish religious teaching, don't interrupt him with an ethics lesson! – But of course you do, Mr Höchtl! [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: Don't do it!]] [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: But why?]] Don't be so blue-eyeed all the time. You have already done enough with your bluishness in school policy. You shouldn't be blue-eyeed anymore! They should take action to make religious teaching more attractive, rather than running it with questionable ethics.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e13395	Mrs Dr Schmidt came to speak. - Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e13443	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I think we should now take the opportunity to deal with the direction in which we really want to lead the discussion. We Liberals have made this request for a deadline because I believe that this would at least be a first step. It's true, but I don't have to repeat what Maria Schaffenrath said: We have developed our position further, and I also think it is more consistent to say that ethics should be a subject of duty and religion should be offered as a free trade. I know you can't go with it. But that is why we have put forward our old proposal for discussion. Address to the SPÖ colleagues, in particular to colleagues Antoni: I don't understand your argument. You say that you do not agree with the request because you want to let ethics teach only on a voluntary basis. At the same time, however, you buy that religion is the subject of duty. Now I ask you: Is it really important for you in a country in which you say that you have committed yourself to the separation of church and state to have a subject of duty to convey faith – and that is the curriculum of religious teaching! – which is about the content of faith to convey ethical values as people? - Yeah, but that doesn't make sense. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] I am now concerned that you should take up the situation or make yourself strong for the fact that there is a duty to convey faith and that you are opposed to making ethical values mandatory. I just don't understand. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] I don't understand. I do not understand, however, how honest it was at the ÖVP. That's what I want to deal with now. These ethical values – I hope you looked at the curriculum – naturally arise when someone has a religious feeling, including the strengthening of his religious faith. [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: How do you take these values from?]] [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: How do you take ethical values?]] Is it a state task to pass on faith? Is that the right thing you want to evaluate? Do you really want to put these beliefs at the same level as the laws of physics or anything else and therefore evaluate them accordingly? [[Intrusions of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] The educational objectives and teaching tasks of religious teaching are as follows: Religious instruction should help the believing disciple to make a more conscious choice for his faith. He is said to give the Church’s answers to his questions to the seeker and the student challenged in the faith. – Do you not think that it is quite different if you do not give a final answer to young people, but if you let them deal with the subject as provided for in these curriculumes? In the first semester: man as a cultural being; second semester: man as a religious being; third semester: man as an individual and as a social being; fourth semester: man in society and state. Do you not believe that for the formation of personality it means a completely different strength if you give someone the choice of answer, not just that of a church, so that he can develop his own appreciation? – In your book, you complain of the de-olidarization of society, the disorientation of orientation; all of this you complain of after years of duty religion. Now I'm really asking you: Where are you taking your argument? Where is logic when, despite such an education, society has slid into this situation, as you describe it? I share yes Your image of this society is not, but I also point out that we have de-olidarization tendencies. I too believe that people are not willing to take responsibility for themselves or for other responsibilities. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Fathers Frost instead of Christkind!]] I am firmly convinced that this is partly due to the fact that, in our school system, young people are not given the opportunity to develop this scale of values themselves. Our firm conviction – that is now the liberal image of human beings – is that what you develop is far more viable and safer than what you get as a pack, for which you get your note – for which you have to find the convictions, and that is what it has to do with it. This is the society that was created, among other things, with the subject matter of duty religion. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: There's no more!]] Mr Khol! Let's talk about it! We're open. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The curriculum includes fields of values, which are different denominations!]] I'd like to talk about it. That is why this request for a deadline for the Committee. Let us in committee talk about this, without audiences, without the public, where we can really exchange the arguments! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The school tests first!]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Therefore, my appeal to All of them: Voices You must submit to the deadline request! They have every possibility of amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e13585	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Gabriela Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e13609	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! There is no doubt that we will agree to any request for a deadline. In the case of ethics, there are still two or three important dimensions. First: I am very pleased that this House is once again discussing the importance of ethics – ethics in school and ethics as such. Secondly, It is very essential to see this in the context of school and society, in which solidarity, ethical, moral behavior is often pushed into the background. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: What is ethics? Define Ethics!]] In the light of the fact that the social values, including the ethical values in everyday behaviour, are increasingly in the field of economic and cultural defence, I consider this discussion to be very favourable. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: An example!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: For example?- Oh, my God!]] In principle, on the question of ethics in school: No doubt he's an alternative. He's an alternative when the school tests are evaluated. In our opinion, it is necessary to wait until the results of the school tests are on the table. To this end, the most appropriate form of concrete judgment on ethics in the Committee's deliberations is then. [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: Then the deadline application is pointless!]] The second thing we must pay attention to is the fact that we need a concept of ethics. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: That's it!]] A conceptual procedure in this area would be very reprehensible. We are in favour of an evaluation of the various concepts and a thorough discussion in the Committee, and we certainly regard your request as an acceleration procedure. – I have been told that the concepts are still missing. The third important element I would like to add from practice is that, regardless of whether ethics or religious education, the social behaviour of children is primarily provoked or promoted by role models in teaching. There is no teaching of ethics, there is no teaching of religion: If values are not lived, presented and also practiced exemplaryly, the whole of the ethics teaching is for the cat’s. That is why I believe it is essential, in addition to an ethics lesson, to definitely promote and maintain social co-existence in the classes through the reintroduction of the class board hour. In my opinion, this is also an important cornerstone, parallel to ethics. Against this background, I am grateful for this discussion, but it sees it as a beginning, a starting point for another area, which should not only include ethics.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e13698	No one is reported in the word anymore. We therefore come to the vote. We are voting – and to this end I would ask you to take up the seats – on the request to the Committee on Education to report on the request 438/A (E) by Mr Mag. Dr. Schmidt and comrades concerning the introduction of an ethics teaching as an optional subject for a period of up to 20 years. ==References== I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this deadline proposal to give a sign on this point. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e13737	I will resume the negotiations on points 1 and 2 of the agenda for today's sitting. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I tell you that you are the third last speaker and that a vote will be taken again. This only at the time classification. - Please. [[Abg. Dr. Gredler: There's no one on the government bank!]] A representation on the government bank will be desired. As far as I know, Mrs. State Secretary is in the house. I think it can only be very short until it's back in the hall. Ladies and gentlemen, are you ready to start? - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e13766	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In my contribution to the debate, I will focus on foreign culture policy, which is traditionally a small band of its own. – Now there is also the Secretary of State. Thank you! – It lists a considerable number of cultural events through which Austrian art and culture was and is present internationally. This presence is welcome – not only because it is an important voice from Austria abroad, but also because it offers artists the opportunity to present, network and cooperate. The Commissioner responsible recently stressed that a European Community, an international community of states, which neglects the cultural sector and the cultural debate, i.e. an international community, which is not a cultural community, is at least lacking. I would therefore like to stress in particular the cultural dimension of European integration. It is essential and must therefore also be a focus of Austrian foreign policy. In the interests of international cultural policy, it is more necessary than ever to establish networks. Only in this way can this essential dimension become reality. In the EU, this network idea has been increasingly important in recent times. In other words, if culture is to become a catalyst for dialogue and understanding and thus for integration, and thus become one of the stronger concepts within the EU, as the report says, Austria must benefit from the opportunities it offers to us as a small member country. We can and must give outlines to the EU's cultural policy, which is not strongly criticised in the report. Criticized contourlessness also offers the opportunity to stimulate developments beyond the range of individual, partly outstanding cultural events, which show clear contours and contribute actively and creatively to networking. In this context, I would like to return to my colleague Cap's survey. He asked for a survey to deal with foreign culture policy. I would like to support this idea and think it is particularly important because, as part of such an event, we could consider how Austria should draw these contours and how Austria should contribute. In this respect, I also welcome the intensification of Austria's international cooperation with UNESCO. Austria also works closely with international organisations in the field of science and research. This cooperation is important and essential because we can only maintain it through this cooperation, through the participation of multilateral funding in rapid development, for example in the field of high-technology. The report also shows that cooperation in the context of EU research and training policy is proven. ==References== A total of 13.2 billion ECU are available for the years 1994 to 1998, from which Austria benefits through this cooperation. By the end of 1997, about 1 000 Austrian projects were funded and awarded. That is, more than 2 billion schillings have flown back to Austria. This shows the benefits – only expressed in the measured category of money – but there are other categories: the rerouting profitability of cultural activities and services, which in turn flow back to Austria or benefit Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! Cooperation, openness, mutual interest are the ropes of a European cultural network, as we imagine it, a cultural network that the state community urgently needs. These ropes are also in the hands of the Austrian foreign culture policy and must be strengthened by us. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e13818	The next speaker is Mr Dkfm. Bauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e13839	High house! The statement by Mr Vice-Chancellor on questions of Austrian foreign policy was one, as it is common in the diplomatic field, in the field of foreign policy: many beautiful words, but in the matter of non-binding, often incomprehensible to Otto normal consumers and, above all, removed from the real concerns, wishes and problems of the affected population. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Or do you really believe, ladies and gentlemen, on the Government Bank and on the government groups, that it is the greatest wish, the greatest concern of the Austrians, to make substantial progress in enlargement rather than using the Presidency in the European Union to accommodate our own wishes and problems as forcefully as possible? – In addition to a few ladies and gentlemen who want to export there, the drive to the east is, I believe, the least concern of the Austrians. But if you do, that's your decision. It is your decision to use the EU Presidency to advance enlargement. In my opinion, it will take at least ten or twelve years to drive them forward or make them concrete. However, they already want to use it for half the year of the Austrian Presidency. It is your decision to do so, to set this priority and not to represent the interests of the Austrians within the framework of the EU Presidency. But if you do, I would expect you to have at least some concrete ideas about it. The Foreign Minister spoke about the "Europe Project". So if I intend to make substantial progress in a project, then the first thing I do is to develop my own goals, set my own time horizon, and say: Until then, I want to achieve and enforce this and that. Until then, I would like to have achieved this and that goal with this and that partner. Nothing of this has been heard in this very long statement – it was, I believe, almost a quarter of an hour – not a single sentence. When do you want to achieve this substantial expansion? I ask you, Mrs State Secretary: When? We have not heard anything about how, once the borders are open, you want to protect the Austrian border regions against the social and wage dumping which then breaks down – not a single sentence! And we have not heard a single sentence, Mrs State Secretary, about the cost proposal, which will cost us. No, I'm correcting myself: We heard a sentence: It will not be free of charge, the Foreign Minister said. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Yes, that was good!]] Then I agree with him: Just as little as our accession to the EU was free, just as for us as a hard currency country the introduction of the euro will be free, nor will we as net payers be free of Easter enlargement. And in what direction it will go, we have already heard and read: Farmers will get less, and the net payments of the Austrians will increase. So I'm asking you: Which cost estimates, which cost framework exists in your project?
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e13886	Mrs Inge Jäger. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e13910	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to highlight three points in the debate on enlargement of the EU. First: Without a doubt, EU enlargement is one of the biggest challenges for Europe. I would like to see clear language arrangements in this context as well. It cannot be said that at European level there is a very rapid reception of these candidate countries and, on the other hand, in dialogue with the population, there must be very long periods of time and very long transitional periods. In my opinion, these transitional periods are necessary, and it is also necessary to clarify certain conditions and to implement reforms, both at European level and in the countries of Eastern Europe. Only then will it be possible for these countries to join. Point 2: I do not think that it is the target of the fact that, now that they are in contact with these countries and that they are invited to join, the countries which are net payers are beginning to discuss the fact that they want to pay less into the EU. Without a doubt, EU enlargement will cost a lot of money, and I think that we must tell the citizens, because ultimately we will all benefit from it. Only the approximation of the environmental standards of all candidate countries to EU level would cost at least 200 to 240 billion D-marks, as a EU study states. All candidate countries are Objective 1 regions with a gross social product below 75 percent of the EU average. We must therefore deal with the fact that enlargement will cost a great deal of money and that this money must also be spent. Now to the third point. In order not to endanger Europe, consideration must be given to the project. It is criticised by Spain, France, the Netherlands, Portugal – all the countries that fear that they themselves will have to give up funding with the accession of these countries. I think that this Easter enlargement is so important for the future of Europe that it is precisely necessary to set clear targets. Perhaps European citizens will rather take the opening up of Eastern Europe if it succeeds in the coming years, in fact, in reducing unemployment in the West, if it is linked to the fact that there is no further savings package, but in the course of tax harmonisation, those who actually benefit from this eastern opening, namely the economy, must also contribute to it, for example, with an increase in capital income tax and also with an increase in taxes on assets. I would like to address NATO's enlargement in this context, because this issue has been very much attracted today. I do not think that NATO enlargement is currently a target, especially because there are also very high costs associated with it – a total of 124 billion dollars for the next ten years – and because countries like Russia would be excluded. These costs must also be borne by the population in the Eastern European countries. I think it would be better if we were to establish or discuss a pan-European security system involving Russia in the long term, and so to speak, would not call into question EU enlargement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e13952	I am no longer able to speak in the course of the debate. That is why the debate is closed. Mrs Rosemarie Bauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e13974	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I have a print error correction which refers to 1332 of the supplements to the Stenographical Protocols. It concerns the content of the foreword of the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs in the 1997 foreign policy report. On page IX of the foreign policy report, the text is correct, only the supplements contain an error. Instead of the word "information network", the word "information law" appears there. I read the corrected text: "For illustration purposes, it should only be noted that more than 11 000 communications have been exchanged in the CFSP's so-called CFSP information network between the foreign ministers of the 15 EU Member States and the EU Commission in 1997. - End of half set.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e13995	Thanks a lot. We shall now proceed to the votes. I would therefore ask you to take the seats. First of all, we are voting on the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs to take note of this report in III-133 of the supplements, taking into account the just presented print error correction in the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this adoption to give a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The foreign policy report is thus taken note of. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gredler and Mr Comrades on the Federal Government's report to the National Council on the results of the European Council. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this motion for a resolution, Dr Gredler, for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote next on the motion for a resolution by Mr Scheibner and Mr Comrades on the opening of negotiations with NATO on Austria's accession to NATO. I should like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. Next, we shall vote on the resolution tabled by Mr Jung and Mr Group on measures to end the conflict in Kosovo. I should also like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of the young motion show this. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Finally, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hans Helmut Moser, Mr Schieder, Mr Schwimmer and Mr Comrades on measures to end the conflict and to enforce human rights in Kosovo. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of this motion for a resolution, Moser, Arbitrators, Swimmers, a sign. This request was adopted by a majority. (E 127.) That is why we have dealt with points 1 and 2 of today's agenda. 3rd. Point First reading of the application 741/A by Dr Andreas Kholund Comrades concerning a federal law by which the Federal Law of 29 October 1989 was adopted. Amendment of June 1989 on the establishment of a Council on Austria's integration policy
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e14113	We come to item 3 of the agenda. We are going into the debate. The word first receives the co-applicant Dr. Spindelegger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e14141	Thank you. Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We ÖVP Members have tabled this request to amend the law on the establishment of a Council on issues of Austrian integration policy, because we believe that the Council of Integration should now be given a new task. Since 1995, we have been a member of the European Union, and since 1989 this Council has been in place on issues of Austrian integration policy. In the meantime, there is a phase of intensive consultation, and I believe that during this period - 1989 to 1995 - this Council really had a crucial role to play in accompanying Austrian policy towards accession to the European Union. Since we are full members of the European Union, the importance of this Council has changed a little. Today, we have the opportunity to discuss intensively the issues of the European Union and its policies in various parliamentary bodies, whether they are the EU's main committee or the Committee on Foreign Affairs or a committee of experts. However, I believe that the Council of Integration would still have meaning if, in addition to questions relating to integration policy, we also discussed the related issues of security policy. That is our wish and our objective, and I believe that this could mean a recovery of this Council on Integration. We have also included in the explanatory statement the so-called Option Report, because we believe that this Option Report, even if it has not been adopted by the Federal Government with a common vote, provides a wealth of very profound analyses of the options, that it involves a very good assessment of the options, that it addresses a wide range of issues that are widely discussed, such as the budgetary impact of the various options on the budget in Austria, on issues related to military defence. That is why this option report is a very good basis for a security debate. We want – and this is also the reason for this first reading – to launch this request for a new clarification of the debate on the future of Austrian security policy, because it would be a pity if we were simply to do away with the basic work set out in this report. What has been brought together in this work is obsolete in a few years, and that is why it makes sense and right to discuss it now. Secondly, decisions on security policy must be taken very long-term. The classification of whether or not one goes into an alliance has very far-reaching and long-term effects, and therefore it is good to have intensive advice on it and to put these discussions on an objective basis as well. And thirdly, I believe that we have some points of view in this House's security policy – my group has clearly expressed itself towards accession to the NATO new – that it is necessary, however, to have a serious discussion on the time frame in which it is possible to make a security policy change in Austria actually a reality in this landscape, and that, in view of this, we should also link this decision with a discussion in the Committee on Foreign Affairs – although not in these six months of the Presidency, in which we are truly tasked with a lot of tasks in order to make this Presidency successful for Austria. But this is a discussion that is beginning today, but perhaps not finished tomorrow. That is why we think it is essential to make a decision in view. We have seen in 1989 that the east opening of the Iron Curtain has fallen away, we have experienced the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991, and we see what the collapse of the Warsaw Pact means. In these years, I believe, we have taken very important steps, starting with the peace partnership up to the Amsterdam Treaty provisions on a new common foreign and security policy. But one thing is also important, and this is still clear: We need to make a decision on the security of Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e14195	The next speaker is Mr Tychtl. He's got the floor. Same time of speech: 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e14216	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I think we can say that we have never refused a discussion before, when a corresponding request has come from our coalition partner. To date, we have seriously examined all the proposals and have also discussed them calmly and calmly. That is what we shall do with this request. In this particular case, however, we doubt whether the request is actually appropriate to serve as a vehicle, so to speak, in order to transport the report of options prepared by the coalition partner and to have it discussed in Parliament. We also say very clearly that in the context of such a discussion we do not have any fears of contact, as always. This is evidenced by the fact that we too want to have a discussion, especially as strong changes have become felt and visible both in the WEU and in NATO, in all those organizations that are concerned with security. This proposal also points out in point 3.6 that the process of creating a new NATO has been under way since 1990. So it is by no means the case that this process of reorientation began only yesterday. This is a permanent process, which, as we have recently been able to convince ourselves in NATO headquarters, will continue to take some time, especially because, in connection with NATO and WEU, a completely new dimension of cooperation with the European Union is emerging. I am very glad that Mr Vice-Chancellor said today – so that everyone in this round should actually know what it is all about – that in future both WEU and NATO will be made more visible in the area of the European Union and that cooperation will be strengthened. We believe – and here I am quite d’accord with my previous speaker – that this constantly changing process of adjustment is in full swing. We should therefore take a closer look at the direction in which this development is going, and at the appropriate time we should have the necessary discussions on it. In this sense, we welcome this proposal for discussion in the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e14265	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e14286	Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Klubobmann Khol spoke very much about honesty in the security debate in the previous discussion on the foreign policy report. If one applies the concept of honesty in this case, then one must say that it is not really a matter of rapidly extending the tasks of this Council for Integration, for otherwise one would have found another procedure of parliamentary treatment and would not first require a first reading, then waiting for the assignment to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and just then said here in the debate: But in the next half year, we do not want to discuss this and do not decide on it at all. So, Mr Klubobmann Khol – you are the first applicant – the seriousness of this request may well be questioned. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Spindelegger! I also cannot explain the meaning of the content of the application. If it was perhaps still sensible to set up such a Council before the accession of Austria to the EU, in which all possible political and non-political groups of Austria are represented, in order to highlight the various problems from a wide range of points of view, I have already asked myself about the EU accession to the security debate, which the Chamber of Agriculture, the Chamber of Workers, the Municipal Association and the Urban Association should contribute. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that this security policy debate must be held here in the House, we must conduct in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, we must lead in the Committee on Defence and Defence, quickly and intensively. There is no room for such requests to extend the whole debate. In fact, it is only for you that, first of all, the coalition partner is once again annoying and, secondly, pretending to be activity here, because you cannot agree in the government and because you want to show something again and say to your clientele, who is more and more depressing you, why you are still in the hostage of the socialists: We'll try anyway, we'll try, but unfortunately nothing goes on! Ladies and gentlemen! This is not the way in which we can continue in the security debate. We still have in the Committee on Foreign Affairs a number of security-related applications. These are to be dealt with sometime. Only this ominous request of the EIA will be allocated to a subcommittee. It's also a curious thing. But it must not be negotiated at first, the next half year is once a radio silence. I am hearing again and again rightly, including the Minister of Defence, the complaint of how much time has been lost in relation to these decisions. And that's right, we've missed a lot. We are not integrated into the enlargement movement of NATO. We are not integrated in the question of building a European component in security policy. And in the end, we are also fully in the air when we decide how to shape our own security in the future. They then complain suddenly and wonder that, for example, EU investment in infrastructure is being put into the Czech Republic, Hungary and Poland. We are asked why this is not the case with us, why the railway is not supported, for example, the construction of the south-east spange. The answer to this is very likely to be: This is your failure, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! This is one of the disadvantages caused by this non-decision in security policy, because investment in high technology goes to those countries that have already opted for NATO's security policy approach. It's clear to us: Security can only be done in conjunction with the other countries. No one's taking the decision. But the reasons are quite open. Eight years you'd have had time. We do not need a Council on Integration, but we need a clear and open discussion in the Committee, and we ultimately need clear and rapid decisions on the future of Austrian security policy.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e14343	The next speaker is Mr Hans Helmut Moser. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: NATO opponent Moser!]] He's got the floor. Speech time: 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e14376	Mr President. Even if you want to give me 20 minutes, I mean, 5 minutes are enough. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Spindelegger really tried to justify the request for an extension of the Council's competence on integration, but he did not really succeed. Ladies and gentlemen! The request made here by the Austrian People's Party cannot be serious. There have already been discussions in advance which should have been aimed at discussing this point in connection with the debate on the Foreign Minister's foreign policy report. And it was also about the extent to which we could not give up on speakers. I therefore believe that the Austrian People's Party is not really seriously involved in this discussion. And also the reasons that Mr Spindelegger has put forward here, why the competences of this Integration Council should be extended, were not valid. Dear Michael! What is set out in the request as a statement of reasons is nothing but the position of the Austrian People's Party and its arguments for joining NATO. And this is not a debate in this proposal. Therefore, the reasoning is not really clear. I also believe that it does not make sense to use this proposal as a platform and as a starting point for the necessary debate on security policy. Ladies and gentlemen! It is already surprising why the Austrian People's Party, which wishes to push forward the security policy debate with this request – at least it says so – when it comes to discussing those options which it has brought into the Committee on Foreign Affairs itself and which should have been discussed there in a subcommittee, as well as those ideas and positions which the other political groups had – the Greens, the Liberals, the Liberals, the Liberals – do not allow these questions to be discussed, neither in the Subcommittee, nor in the Committee on Foreign Policy, where there was no consensus on the report. It is therefore believed that if the Austrian People's Party today declares that it wants to advance the discussion on the security perspective. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Spindelegger may have meant it honestly when he said: One reason is that the body should be given new tasks. I believe that the Austrian People's Party is particularly close to this body. In this body are not only representatives of the political parties represented in Parliament, but also the Heads of State Conference, the social partners are represented in proportion, as are the Town Association and the Austrian Municipal Association. That is to say, it is a body in which the Austrian People's Party has a certain majority. Therefore, it wants to use nothing but this body to get a majority for a particular political idea, i.e. to push the question of Austria's accession to NATO instead of holding a comprehensive, open, fair discussion on the security perspective. One thing is clear: This body has nothing to do with security policy and defence policy. It has no real skills for this. On the other hand, it would make sense to take those existing bodies that we already have as the basis for a discussion of future prospects. This would be, for example, the Foreign Policy Council or the National Defence Council. That would be the right advisory bodies for the Federal Government. But there is, above all, the need to discuss this in the House, in the Defence Committee, in the Foreign Policy Committee. The Austrian People's Party has so far refused to do so. I therefore believe that it is not necessary to give this request the consent, because it does not give rise to any meaning or any benefits in the context of a further substantive discussion of future Austrian security policy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e14424	No further words are available. This debate during the first reading is therefore closed. I agree with Mr Khol's motion for a resolution and with the Committee on Foreign Affairs. 4. Point Report of the Economic and Social Committee on the Government Template (1108 of the Supplements): The Federal Act reorganising the organisation in the field of electricity management (Electricity Economic and Organisation Act – ElWOG), the Federal Constitutional Act governing the ownership of the companies in the Austrian electricity industry, and amending the Cartel Act 1988 and the Price Act 1992; and on Amendment No 215/A by Mrs Ing. Monika Langthalerand comrades concerning a federal law governing the supply of electricity from renewable energies and small combined heat and power plants into the public network (Inflation Act 1996), and on motion 386/A (E) by Mr Mag. Thomas Barmüllerand comrades on electricity pricing schemes that meet European market requirements (1305 of the supplements) 5. Point Report and request of the Economic Committee on a Federal Act amending the Starkstromwegwegengesetz 1968 and the Federal Act on electrical conductors which do not cover two or more federal states (1306 of the Supplements) 6. Point Report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on Amendment 543/A (E) by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Thomas Prinzhornand comrades concerning the reorganisation of the Austrian electricity industry (1307 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e14510	We come to points 4 to 6 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. I don't have a desire for reporting. Mr Prinzhorn is the first to speak. A voluntary speaking time of 6 minutes was proposed. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e14539	Mr President. Minister! High house! Nothing reflects the way in which Austrian politics is thought better than the energy economy: small-carrying, inefficient, privilege-free, everything that comes into your mind on such a rainy day. Mayor Häupl of Vienna has in addition to his distinctive statement, the Party program of Socialists recalls the last century, also said, the e-E-Economie live in the last century. - I can only thank him there. The federal government protects the union, the countries protect the national societies. The association has already drawn attention for the first time to what is going wrong in the Austrian e-business in 1996 with its study "Secretary in Connection". Hardly finished this study, she was put in the drawer. The Quintessence of this study was that the energy prices were 40 percent too high, the personnel costs by 100 percent. If these two things were not changed, the Austrian economy would suffer from energy costs in liberalising shipwreck. The privileges were well represented by us liberals at the time. Whether that was the combined director Giljum with 1.7 million salary, 100 percent remuneration, 280 000 S housing allowance and 200 000 S equipment allowance, we have given you the examples placardatively. You've always said: Yes, even if Price Waterhouse confirms all this, it doesn't matter what time goes on, we're going to live on in the protected area. And you have finally used EVN and OKA as an excuse for the national leaders – whether that was under Skacel or among Müller, with all the painful scandals, or whether Wenzl has served in the OCA with millions of contributions in the pension. You've abused these societies for that! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But you have also misused the investment to show the flag with your employment policy. When the EU has long drawn up an agenda for co-ordinated planning of power plants, you have installed 300 MW in TIWAG storage. They also did it at KELAG and SAFE. The Association Director said counter-directors in 1997 that we should not be so afraid that our e-business is doing well. I can only say: He's probably fine, but the thousand employees he's about to cancel are going to be a little worse, I think. So you've seen it the way you just needed it. Once there was a crisis, then they were put in the drawer, and it was all right again. – After that, in February 1998, the same compound general director said again, we need for God’s sake another ElWOG, an ElWOG that protects us, otherwise we will not survive. You know all these statements of the last days and weeks. Ladies and gentlemen! The ElWOG is a toothless tiger, it has protection provisions as far as the eye is concerned. There are no specific rules for network access, there is a shameful regulation for the regulator established in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, and there has already been a number of criticisms from the EU, namely Commissioner Benavides, who has repeatedly challenged it. There would have been good examples of this. I only remember Norway, which carried out in December 1990 the liberalisation that the EU is imposing on its members today and which we are defending in Austria. Today, Norway has the lowest energy prices in Europe, far below that of Sweden, which is the top leader in the EU's liberalisation and favourable tariffs. – But we look at it, we read it in the newspapers and we know: In Austria, this will go by, we will keep the protected area, and our politicians will continue to have an excuse there. In the Committee there were interesting comments, for example, the individual statements made by Mr Energiesprecher Kopf, who honestly said that this ElWOG was finally there to serve the E-Economie. Mr Oberhaidinger has also said honestly: What can we do about 50 years of missing energy policy? He's right! [[Abg. Marizzi: He didn't say that!]] You should have said that this was the energy policy of your two parties. But you're honest. If I say you're honest, don't you! [[Abg. Oberhaidinger: I don't defend myself! But quote correctly!]] I have just congratulated you on You're honest! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mrs Langthaler has left us with a say in her proposal concerning 5 per cent of alternative energy for electricity generation. However, I have to tell you that your demand is a double-digit billion. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oberhaidinger.]] Ladies and gentlemen, with all due respect, you know very well that this would be a Dana gift that you would make us if that was your last wish for this government in this Parliament before you left! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Langthaler]] That is why we would like to refer to our request for an energy law again, and I would like to make this motion today as a motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] That is our proposal, which would be a liberalisation of the market! Therefore, if you stop your electrified pride, accept our proposal, then we will not be able to remain in Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e14670	The motion for a resolution referred to just now is under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Deputies Head. The clock is set to 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e14694	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) With this ElWOG, we have to implement an EU directive which is quite strongly involved in an industry which, on the one hand, admittedly segmented very strongly and on the other hand, is firmly involved in the historical development of the various regions of our country. This must not be as negative as you do, Mr Prinzhorn. On the contrary! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn.]] Many regions could not have developed so well if it had not been. This industry is living in a natural monopoly situation, and the industrial tariffs of our country, too, are too high in international comparison. However, we have very attractive household tariffs and a high proportion of domestic renewable energy sources used for electricity. It should be noted that the principles of business policy have not always been sufficiently taken into account in these companies. But this industry has seen in total very good and interesting future prospects. In view of the discussion on nuclear energy and the follow-up costs of this form of electricity supply, and so on abroad, one can rightly say that this has our form of electricity generation – high hydropower and other renewable energy sources – along with what is still being done in the future – I am coming to this point – a truly interesting future perspective, not only ecologically, but also economically. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] We have set a number of goals in the design of the ElWOG. Firstly, to maintain security of supply, secondly, to maintain the attractive price level for households, and to achieve a price reduction, a significant price reduction, for large customers. It is necessary to be able to improve the economic environment. We need an increase in the competitiveness of this sector, which can be achieved by minimizing costs, which is no question. However, it is a contradiction to criticise Mr Prinzhorn, on the one hand, the too much of the staff he used to give, but on the other hand, to lay down on the reduction of staff costs. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn: 20 years ago you should have started, not now!]] You would always have hurt whether today or two years ago. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn: At that time you should have made a structural change!]] With this ElWOG – and it will also succeed – it is necessary to achieve a gradual elimination of the Quasimonopol, this natural monopoly. We have chosen a responsible timetable, which will create a balanced burden distribution and a balanced level of impact, and at the same time we want to achieve further improvement in the overall environmental situation in electricity generation. What solutions have we found for this? First of all, Parliament was very strongly involved in this process. That is very positive. We have found a step-by-step market opening that is slightly above the EU requirement, which brings advantages to large customers through increased competition and will exert rationalisation pressure on energy supply companies, but this will be done in manageable steps and linked to the pressure to also make strategic reorientations. Mr. Prinzhorn! All that you forcely demand by law is guaranteed responsible managers, simply because of their strategic findings and necessary reorientations. Finally, equal opportunities and justice are also being created for small distributors, who may be slowed down on the market, but who may be moved freely, even as authorised customers – a very important step in trying to balance this law. Access to the network for large customers: Mr. Prinzhorn! I do not think that you meant that there was no regulation, but I suppose you meant net tariffs. For network access there is probably a regulation, the best possible, namely regulated network access. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn: What's that cost?]] We originally had a different system in mind, but in the course of the discussions it became clear that this system is more market-compliant, more efficient and also much more unbureaucratic. The only thing that has to be regulated and remain is, of course, the network system, the network access, because there is still a natural monopoly in this area. But the system chosen is much more efficient and unbureaucratic than anything else in discussion. On the point of "system-use tariff", I recognise that we will regulate this so important element of competition – and it will be a very crucial one – on the basis of a study commissioned by the Minister of Economic Affairs, namely a regulation by the Minister of Economic Affairs, which he will, however, be adopted jointly and in agreement with the main committee of the National Council. In my opinion, this is a very good and serious solution, in which Parliament can also come in at a time when it is the only one that is right, when the results of this study are available. The final price, that is, the attractive price level for final customers, we will be able to hold. We will also ensure, by means of a resolution tabled by the Head and Oberhaidinger, to the Minister for Economic Affairs, that this price level must remain. It was important to solve a major problem, namely that the so-called "stranded costs", i.e. future reductions in proceeds, investments and also contracts that were made in confidence in the continuation of this system, would not make them profitable. We have found a model of solidarity as the first solution that greatly minimizes the problem, i.e. removes the legal uncertainty that the coordination and supply contracts would have called into question, or at least they would have been questioned by some. We are now giving these contracts an inventory guarantee for a few years – no more and no less. At the same time, the price level is raised to a market level, thus minimizing the problem of "stranded costs", which might otherwise have arisen, by a lot and also greatly reducing the need for operating aid. The second approach, which will be taken only after that, is that, once an opinion has been drawn up on behalf of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the impact of the ElWOG on the company's viability in terms of profitability, equity ratio, market opening and also the company's sustainable development capacity, will only then be given operating aid. This will, in turn, be set out in a regulation only after this opinion has been delivered, which is not normal and of course, with Parliament's involvement, namely the main committee. However, for good reason, namely for employment and regional policy considerations, we have explicitly recognised lignite streaming in the Styria as "stranded investments" and thus as a need for operating aid. However, I believe that this was necessary not only for regional and employment reasons, but also for a command of fairness to those concerned in Styria. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Another essential concern could be realized: It has helped renewable energy sources to break through. Biomass, biogas, landfill gas, geothermal energy, wind and sun are interesting substitution options, interesting also for fossil energy sources, and these are particularly interesting opportunities for acquisition especially in rural areas. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: No hydropower!]] A 3 per cent reduction obligation was reached, Mr Prinzhorn, by 2005, with binding feed-in tariffs to be fixed in the countries, a simultaneous remuneration to the EPUs, direct network access with the sale of the off-store and also investment-law facilitation for production facilities for the electricity supply of renewable energy sources. Overall, this is a package that will help increase the share of renewable energy. To sum up, we have succeeded in achieving very conflicting goals. It was possible to balance the regional importance of the historical developments, the fragmented ownership structure, but also the need to achieve price reductions. But there were also excessive demands, some of the players involved have dramatized in an improper way, and perhaps the shareholders of these companies with their boards should be very serious about these statements and these dramatizations. I think that this is a viable compromise between economic policy and environmental, social and regional concerns. Two major challenges still lie ahead of us: the two regulations on the regulation of the network fee on the one hand and the remuneration of the "stranded costs" on the other. Finally, as chairman of the Subcommittee which has dealt with this law, I would like to thank you very much, first of all, for your hard work, Mr Federal Minister. Until the government's proposal could even come, many rounds of negotiations were necessary, which you have mastered, so that you could present a very good government template. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] However, I would also like to make no mention of your employees in Section VIII, led by Mr Zluwa, head of section. They have really supported us exemplaryly in our work. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Our two negotiators on the part of the coalition partner, State Secretary Ruttenstorfer and Member of the Oberhaidinger, are also mentioned. It was hard negotiations, but in my opinion, on a good level and on a human basis, which can be seen, and we have achieved a good result together. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn: Highly priced!]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Finally, I would like to thank all the staff, all my colleagues in the Subcommittee and also in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, Mr Klubobmann, all here in the House for the approval, as I hope, in this House. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Overlaid for 4 minutes!]] – Thank you very much for your attention!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e14847	The next speaker is Mr Barmüller. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e14868	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As only three minutes are available to me for this speech, I have to take a very short look and I would like to say to the honourable Member that at the beginning the Federal Minister has already come up with very interesting proposals to Parliament or at least made them public. In reality, however, he was stuck in the thickness of the country's interests – these were primarily ÖVP interests. The fact is that the solution that has been found cannot be forward-looking for the structure of the Austrian electricity industry, Mr Kopf, but it will be the case that, due to very regional interests, country interests, an energy supply structure can be built which cannot be dominated in the long term from the Austrian sector. We are at risk that, in the European Union as a whole, we will be part of the peripheral areas. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] Nor has it been possible, ladies and gentlemen, to achieve a level playing field in the field of electricity law, and it is strange that even individual contracts between electricity suppliers have been secured by constitutional provisions. It doesn't make sense. This cannot be the solution to the Austrian energy system in the light of a European directive or a European Single Market orientation. That is why I am not surprised either, Minister of State, that, in the end, the state influence in the Austrian companies has been recorded for a long time. It is known that it will not be kept, but it is now possible to define the majority in the individual electricity supply companies again with constitutional provisions. There has been no in vain criticism on this from the European Commission. But I do not want to hide that it is positive that at least one has gone through not to prevent an eco-strom market in Austria. It will not be forced, but it will not be prevented. Thus, direct supply of end-users by independent producers will be possible in the future, but if, for example, the second Photovoltaic World Conference, which is now taking place in the Hofburg, which started on Monday, looks at the projects that will be presented there tomorrow – and all the delegates are invited to look at this – by school groups, one can see what potential is in the field of renewable energy sources and what great enthusiasm this area is being driven forward to. Mr Principal! It is simply not true that increased supply by renewable energy sources in Austria would only have cost consequences. It is true that, for example, with the electricity price that you have to pay at the Freudnau power plant today, you can operate wind power stations the same way, high-quality. But that's just not gonna be done. It will prevent the use of renewable energy sources to a great extent through the existing market power and the tolerance of policies, and particularly the coalition parties. However, this also prevents Austrian companies from developing a market and products in Austria, which could ultimately be very successful in exporting. Therefore, Mr Kopf, Mr President of the Commission, I should like to say that by 2005 you are a zero, which is why you know, in the explanatory remarks, in the Committee's remarks, that until the time of implementation legislation, all those energy production plants which have been built on a renewable basis will be included. [[Abg. Head: Without ablauge but!]] They have written that the use of blues cannot be taken into account until then, but of course all the projects that exist thereafter. [[Abg. Head: But they're all in addition!]] Well, you know that the use of blues alone accounts for 2.6 percent, but that's almost 3 percent. [[Abg. Head: The old one doesn't come in!]] It says to you: all those who have existed so far. All those who will be made in the future are not included. But that means that, of course, the electricity supply companies will tear this area under the nail. Then there is 2.6 percent alone about the use of blues, which would be quite possible today if one accepted the opening of the market. So that's not offensive until 2005, that's really nothing, and you know that. They have not set any intermediate targets, there are no consequences for failure to achieve these objectives, and this overall leads us to have a Toronto target in the field of energy. With regard to feed-in tariffs: These are country matters, nothing has changed to date. [[Abg. Head: Forced, otherwise Minister!]] Yes, minimum prices, but not above. That has been the case so far. And in the end, you have excluded the small hydropower. You have not counted the small hydropower plants, Mr. Head of Parliament, among the renewable energy sources. The small hydropower does not occur. [[Abg. Head: Then we would have reached the 3 percent as well!]] And that's why I'm telling you: It would be appropriate to set a goal, which means: One hundred per cent supply of renewable energy, which has begun offensively today, would ultimately result in more projects which could also be awarded solar prizes. We could be sure that something will be done that brings regional value, means job security and boosts the export industry. This will not be achieved by this law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e14965	I call Mr Oberhaidinger. 6 minutes of voluntary speaking time. [[Abg. Oberhaidinger: Eight!]] 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e14995	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In her last issue, the magazine "Industrie" headlines an article with "An almost liberalized electricity market". I believe that this is an excellent example in itself, but it is an excellent example of the so-called total opening of the electricity market in Germany. If you look closer at this, you can say: Electricity market opening in Germany yes. The experts tell me: rather no, and that is because, due to civil agreements that exist between the individual EVUs in Germany, and the existing restrictions on ownership, our electricity suppliers in the German market hardly see the possibility to market our electricity in Germany. This is not so much a question of price, but is crucial to the degree of actual market opening in Germany. I am excited how the reciprocity clause in the ElWOG, which we adopt today, will actually work when it comes to comparing the actual market opening in Austria and Germany. Of course, as you have always represented it and so on, Mr. Prinzhorn would have been interesting to implement a solution for the Austrian e-business on the "green meadow", but we do not have a "green meadow". And something else would certainly have been alluring: Mr Kier spoke in committee about a return to the starting situation of the Austrian E-Economics in 1947. But I believe, and I have always represented that, Ladies and gentlemen, 50 years of development of the Austrian electricity industry under – and that must be said! – clear monopoly-like conditions and requirements – whether they have been good or bad, I do not want to judge at all, that is not at all of interest – we cannot simply wipe away, and the situation, as it stands for the ElWOG and for the future of the E-Economy, is a result of this development. We constantly had to deal with the various interests, which of course also politically find their rainfall in our country – I mean here the heads of state, unisono. From this we have set for our group the objectives for a regulated transition from a monopoly-like starting point to a market-compliant system where electricity will become a commodity, and the faster, Mr Prinzhorn, than we believe. To the goals we have set ourselves, at least at the beginning: The electricity prices for large customers, which employ around 150,000 people in our country, must be reduced in all cases. I believe that with a 30 percent market opening in February 1999 – the EU requires 25 percent – we are on the right track. In addition, we should not overlook the fact that even for distribution companies, if they are transmission system operators or if they have an approved customer in their supply area, the market is opened to this extent. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It was, of course, very important for us that the loss of income, which logically results from this market opening for the e-commerce, should not be transferred to households and not to businesses which cannot go on the market. The documents are accompanied by a corresponding motion for a resolution, and subsequent speakers of my group will discuss this even more closely. It's just as clear. The aim was to ensure that network costs, the so-called system-use tariffs, are not less competitive in the EU comparison. The regulation we are going to adopt for it - the Federal Minister will adopt it in agreement with the main committee in Parliament - has already been discussed. The same applies to non-profitable investment and legal transactions, the so-called beached investments or stranded costs. Here too, we have announced a transitional period, also provided for by Brussels: 10 years, until 2008. We have included the basic conditions in the bill, and the implementation will be adopted in a regulation on which agreement with the main committee is to be reached. This was particularly useful because the final notification deadline for Brussels is 30.9. From this moment on, we know what we actually have to expect from beached investments. We were also essential and important not to endanger our high hydropower content from the production of electricity. The network access has already been addressed. Network access may be refused if it cannot be sold at market prices. This is a clear and clear question of the dreaded competition at dumping prices. Electricity from other alternative energy sources should be promoted even more targeted and efficient than before. The country is the first pillar, the secondary market for electricity from renewable energy sources is the second pillar, and the third pillar is our motion for a resolution calling for concentrated support – namely investment promotion. Of course, it was also important to us that the Federal Government's promise that domestic lignite will in all cases be streamed in Styria by 2008 could be met. Therefore, as my previous speaker, Mr Kopf, said, the difference between combined tariff and market price was clearly identified as "stranded costs". Ladies and gentlemen! The conditions of the ElWOG and the framework provided for the Austrian E-Economie, I believe, are in favour of a co-operation between the Austrian E-E-Economie. They will not only allow it, but, as recent developments show, almost demand it. It is governed by the fact that we can continue to write on the terms of ownership and also the coordination agreements that have already been discussed, which will in any case last until the end of 2003, but can be terminated afterwards. So everyone knows what it will look like in Austria from 1.1.2004 onwards. Ladies and gentlemen! For me, it was important that the ETUCs should not be pushed out of the market by law. Our aim was to give all four Curias the opportunity to ensure equal access to a liberalized electricity market for the association, the national EVUs, the national capital EVUs and the municipal EVUs. I think we have done this with this ElWOG today. To a large extent, the Electricity Economic and Organisation Act is the basis for the further development of a key area of our economy under fundamentally modified conditions. To a smaller part, I think, it is a means of ensuring an orderly transition into a market-compliant system. And I also believe that it is a balanced, a defiant law through which there are neither clear winners nor clear losers. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would also like to thank Federal Minister Farnleitner, who has made it possible for us as parliamentarians to get involved in the development of the government template, and with his officials in Section VIII, at the head of section Dr. Zluwa. We had the best possible support during the rounds of negotiations, and I believe it has been done a good, even very good legitimate work. I would like to thank my negotiator, Mr Karlheinz Kopf, for his very hard, but always fair and objective way of negotiating, which makes it possible for us today – after we have passed this law – to continue to look at each other and continue to work for the Austrian economy and the energy industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e15092	I call Mrs Ing. Langthaler. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e15113	Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! So many thanks between ÖVP and SPÖ partners! I think it is right that you leave us out of the game, because unfortunately you have never negotiated with us. We cannot therefore report on really high-quality discussions, we have actually been brought to committee by the relatively final law, and there was, of course, no real room for manoeuvre. Mr Oberhaidinger mentioned the example of Germany. Let me just stick to this example, because it shows to me once again that the coalition parties are not really recognized – by the Minister still most likely, but he has not been able to enforce – and above all not by the national representatives that the situation with EU accession has simply changed. We are, and I am very happy about it, Member of the European Union, and this liberalisation directive for the electricity market, which I particularly welcome, would be a great opportunity, from an economic point of view and from an ecological point of view. But this opportunity has not been taken, and that is something that is very annoying to me. Mr Oberhaidinger! You're right: There are no big winners, there are no great losers in the next one, two, three years. After all, it all remains largely at the status quo. And this is also the difference between Germany and Austria. [[Abg. Oberhaidinger: Don't dwell!]] Each country of the European Union has tried and is still trying to take advantage of its advantages, which it has so far had in a protectionist market. That is also legitimate. It is legitimate for Germany to try to do so, especially in France, as well as Scandinavia and Austria. I have nothing to do with it. The only difference is that Germany, for example, immediately opens its market by 100 percent, as you have correctly done, with some protectionist measures inside. [[Abg. Oberhaidinger: Theoretically!]] Theoretically. But Austria, Mr Oberhaidinger, opens with about 27 percent, only theoretically. [[Abg. Marizzi: 30!]] Then it's just 30 percent, we don't fight by 3 percent. But this is only theoretically, Mr Oberhaidinger. The big difference is that you have secured the same protectionist measures as Germany. And that is why I am relatively convinced that the EU Commission will deal with our law in the process of searching differently than with the German. Because it is a difference whether I keep 100 percent open and protectionist measures, such as in the case of lignite in Germany, or in Austria about 30 percent open and preserve the same protectionist measures, namely also with lignite, but also with access to hydropower. That's something else. I would have been absolutely for that, and They would also have found partners with the Liberals and with us regarding the idea of opening up more under certain conditions, and above all going there, not only – one of the objectives of this liberalisation – a price advantage for large customers, but also a price advantage that is very quick to achieve for consumers. [[Abg. Head: They already have it in international comparison!]] I know that you are presenting a motion for a resolution today, Mr Head of Parliament, but you cannot, however, deny that these liberalisation directives are a major risk throughout Europe, namely that large-scale customers will benefit from them and not consumers. We have already seen this in the example of England. [[Abg. Head: They've had a higher rate so far!]] Although prices have fallen there, they are not for consumers. [[Abg. Oberhaidinger: No electricity price increase for another five years!]] Yeah, but I'm right, I'm telling you. If one looks at how the apparatus in Austria is bloated with the nine Landes-EVUs, with the combination and due to the overcapacity we have, then one must say that it is more than justified that there has been no electricity price increases for a long time. I am not talking about an increase, but about the need to lower the price, not only for large customers, but above all for consumers. – This is one point of this directive, namely liberalisation, access to the market and the attempt to work more efficiently. The second challenge of this law is the environmental challenge. Ladies and gentlemen! At the Toronto target, you've got a little bit more to wander around. The target minus 20 percent CO2 by 2005 has been in place for many years, but it was not binding. But now it's gonna be serious. We have promised to reduce 13 percent within the EU by the 2008 to 2012 budget years, we say by 2010 and this will be legally binding. That means we have to do something. If we look at the increases in the transport sector and the government's not so large initiatives to reduce CO2 emissions in the transport sector, it is clear to us that there will be a large amount of energy in the energy sector. In other words, we have the environmental need to do something urgently in this area. Unfortunately, Mr Prinzhorn is no longer here, because he has been deceived: It is not 5 percent by 2005, but it is only 3 percent renewable energy that is required by law by 2005. Member's head! I am very sorry that the following is not in the final version of the law: It's not what happens if the state providers don't reach it. My great concern is, so much so I welcome this small regulation, that it remains dead right. I would remind you of other laws in which we have also decided quotas, such as the Ozone Act. This was decided by the House, by all the Members of this House: minus 40 percent NOx and VOC by the year 1996. Look at it, we haven't reached the quota. What happened? - Nothing happened. And what's going to happen here? – The original draft provided for appropriate compensatory payments. These are no longer planned. [[Abg. Head: feed-in tariffs, direct market for producers!]] Member's head! Unfortunately, there is no penalty in case this 3-percent rule is not complied with. What happens then? – That is why I must say, so much so that I welcome the fact that at least this is contained, I am so sorry that it has not been dared to "grow" the country's suppliers more. [[Abg. Head: Action has failed than punishment!]] The Greens had a very clear concept. We have expressed our support for a clear unbundling, our own power plant company with an optimal coordination of the Kraftwerkspark in Austria. [[Abg. Head: How's it going?]] I remember: We all know the example of durn pipe, an EVN block, a composite block, with very low utilization. Before the EVN joins the union, they prefer to expand shit. That's crazy! This is annihilation of economic assets, Mr Head of Parliament. [[Abg. Head: How is that going? Do you want to perform expropriations?]] We have proposed a power plant holding in which the state suppliers are represented according to their ownership. [[Abg. Head: I can't impose that on the owners!]] With good will, that would be possible. But we can no longer talk about the objective being an Austrian energy policy. I was recently in a discussion with the head of state Stix and Leitl Landesrat, where I was surprised at the great agreement we had there on this stage. Afterwards, I was particularly surprised that it was not possible to bring together a more reasonable solution, for example, a co-ordination of power plants with optimal use of synergies and, Mr Federal Minister, with its own network society. I do not need to remind you that it was originally your goal to establish a network society of its own within the framework of this law. [[Abg. Head: But not by law!]] We know exactly that, if we decide on this law, we have to consider at the same time what happens to the nine Landes-EVUs and to their association. What entrepreneurship measures must be taken on the part of the owner to be able to talk about an Austrian energy policy in the future, in view of the optimum use of the already invested assets and the future opportunities offered? The law has tried to build around the existing framework conditions. A few wheels have been twisted, as much as it is necessary under the directive. I still believe that the great ecological opportunity, but also the business opportunity, has not been used. I am also not sure that the law is EU-compliant, and I regret that you have not tried to involve the opposition parties in the negotiations and that once again an Austrian solution has come out, Mr Oberhaidinger, who will not bring large winners and losers in the short term, but who will be harmed in the long term for Austria – I am convinced of that. [[Abg. Oberhaidinger: A good Austrian solution will bring!]] Compare the development in the Scandinavian countries or in Spain, where you allow spot markets where you open up and allow innovations. [[Abg. Oberhaidinger: That's all!]] That's all – I'm excited, Mr. Oberhaidinger! Federal Minister! They are required to adopt two more important regulations in the future. We are all excited and hope that we will be informed in advance and perhaps even have the opportunity to discuss how this will be done with the relevant pelagics in the area of network access. Finally, you can only say: An opportunity has been missed, and the EU Directive has been more or less respected. We will wait for the EU Commission to give it its Sanctuary. Otherwise, I can't tell you much more than I wish you a nice evening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e15328	The next speaker is Mr Schwarzböck. Please, honourable Member. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e15349	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Langthaler! The dynamics that this EIWOG assumes will certainly be greater than your expectations that you have formulated here today. I have been following it for years that you have not believed in it in every reform work we have negotiated and adopted from the standpoint of the government parties and that the success figures have been much better than your pessimistic expectations. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] The targeted energy policy in this legislative body with a focus on electricity and power supply has a number of key functions for a high-performance economy, a key role in the field of economic power, employment, the environment and ultimately also security of supply. The liberalisation launched, which is now being implemented in annual stages with this EIWOG, will bring a number of very positive effects: greater performance through more competition – that has been addressed by my previous speakers – and, I am particularly pleased as a farmer's representative, 3 percent biomass electricity. These are not only economic objectives, but also very ambitious environmental objectives, and it is also an essential contribution to bringing closer to the Kyoto target agreements, which Austria has contributed and concluded. It will be essential for the implementation of this project to see whether it is now quickly possible to design the feed-in tariffs with the national regulations in such a way that this 3 percent biomass streaming can be used as quickly as possible. There are a number of possibilities for this, whether they are biogas landfills or fermentation gases, geothermal energy, wind and solar energy or biomass. In any case, there will be very positive developments in this area, which have also been called for for for years in political negotiations. Ladies and gentlemen! The Presidential Conference of the Chambers of Agriculture has instructed the Economic Research Institute to develop a study of the work effects that could lead to greater use of raw materials and biomass. There have been 60 000 jobs linked to such positive innovation developments, and I am convinced that this has made a first and essential contribution to addressing these comprehensive holistic objectives and developing them accordingly. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I would like to conclude by thanking the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Subcommittee. In 13 years' membership of this House, I have been allowed to work on very difficult reform projects in sub-areas in some sub-committees. For me, I say this without self-reliance, observing what our negotiators have done, was a very impressive political work to which I congratulate. I am pleased that, as a subcommittee member, I was able to contribute a small part of it.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e15403	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Nut trees. Please, honourable Member. Similarly, 4 minutes of voluntary time limit.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e15425	Federal Minister! High house! Mr. Federal Minister, you wanted to present a Electricity Economic and Organisation Act that should become an example of advanced economic policy in Austria. It is not even the smallest denominator to you, as a Social Democratic Member has formulated in committee. I don't know who the bigger preventeder was: You, Mr. Oberhaidinger, from the SPÖ, or you, Mr. Kopf, from the ÖVP?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Oberhaidinger: Förderer!]] At least the network company that you had propagated from the very beginning you should have spent. The result is therefore unsatisfying, yes miserable. It is not a mistake to mark the anti-competitive state of affairs, not to be mistaken in preventing the reduction of privileges, but to be miserable, because there is no liberalisation of the e-commerce in the EU's sense, which would ensure the existence of competitiveness within Europe. As a result of the low electricity market opening, customers cannot expect a reduction in the price of electricity and will therefore not be able to bear an important factor in improving competitiveness, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. The great ones will judge it. These would also have been directed without opening the electricity market. They would simply have approached the societies with their demands. But small and medium-sized enterprises will not be able to benefit from it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oberhaidinger.]] That is why Austria remains the European high-price country for industrial electricity, electricity for small and medium-sized enterprises. It is such, and it will remain such. I can show you the documents. Yesterday it was in the "Standard" to read: We're at 32. Unit with regard to the costs. However, I would also like to say that the law is therefore miserable, because many passages, according to experts, are unconstitutional or non-EU. Federal Minister! This law will not prevent the further sale of the Austrian e-commerce. This law is not an incentive for the creation of a company in Austria. Mr Schwarzböck – I don't see him anymore, he's already gone. The dynamic he meant that it would come about will not come about. This law is not even able to use the system tariffs... [[Abg. Oberhaidinger: Rascher than you believe! In two, three years!]] No, I don't think so. No, no, no, They were unable to set the system-use tariffs, i.e. the network charges, at least the calculation. They leave this decision to the main committee and constantly suspend this decision to the political game, a political game at the expense of the e-economics, at the expense of small and medium-sized enterprises and also at the expense of consumers. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oberhaidinger.]] [[Abg. Head: You don't believe what you're saying!]] Federal Minister! I expect you to see further distortions of competition in the setting of network tariffs, which will result in an uneven expansion of the beached investments. Minister! The question of beached investments is also a question of EU conformity. In the same way, I see the connection with the Ill plants in the contract of use of electricity established by the Constitutional Law. However, I see this as different from Mrs Langthaler. If this contract were not in accordance with EU law, it would call into question the purchase price at that time. According to the Board of Directors of the Ill-Werke, the loss the Ill-Werke would have as a result of this contract would drive the Ill-Werke abroad within five years. I hope it doesn't get that far. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oberhaidinger.]] Nevertheless, the worst problem that the E-Economy will have is the lack of competitiveness. This will have an effect in the way that the E-Economics will be selling step by step. She will have to sell herself, as was the case in the Styria. It will sell itself to foreign companies, my dear colleague, to foreign companies, which have only one meaning, namely, to get involved in the Austrian e-business on the way to Austrian water resources. They want to reach the Austrian water resources. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Oberhaidinger: Salzburg!]] However, Austrian water resources in foreign hands are equivalent to the destruction of Austria's economic location. [[Abg. Head: What is your solution?]] This is not contrary to this law, but rather to our motion for a resolution. [[Abg. Head: Solution proposal!]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e15565	The next speaker was Mr Heindl. Please, honourable Member. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e15586	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the near future, although the subject and criticism of Mr Prinzhorn and Mr Nußbaumer would encourage us to deal intensively with it. Now to the seriousness of some statements. Col. Langthaler criticizes our CO2 emissions and so on. The last figures of the IEA prove otherwise. A comparison of energy consumption and CO2 emissions based on IEA data shows that Austria is better than the EU average – better than the OECD average! That's the truth! Everything else is fairy tales and dreams. – That only on the brink of criticism. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing a law to create the conditions for establishing a market economy-oriented system in the electricity sector. That's the target. It is clear that such a fundamental change cannot be made without a doubt that there are difficulties in implementing it. As for one thing too slow, the other goes too fast, he even feels it is a threat of existence. In such a situation to achieve a compromise that could be made for both parts, it was certainly not easy, that is not at all a question and is also there and there critical. But it has brought enormous work. This is precisely because, at times, a little critically debated by both sides has been made during the negotiations, one can say: It's a good compromise. To the expert Dr. Zluwa and his staff, but also to the other experts who have worked intensively for months to implement the political wishes of both directions, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! Mr Prinzhorn! With all due respect, one must say: This fundamental change, this change in the framework conditions, is a cut in a decades-long – in which I totally distinguish myself – successful way of an Austrian energy policy. Let's not underestimate that! This country has been proud of God on the path that has been taken in energy policy. For decades the "heroes of Kaprun" has been spoken of. The name Kaprun was a substitute for other dam power plants, the epitome of reconstruction. It's hard to change the night. It was a successful way – and now someone should tell us that he was bad?- Oh, my God! You mentioned Norway. You have to say that Norway is an oil resource country, a gas resource country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn: We have the highest gas prices!]] We are second in terms of hydropower in Europe behind Norway. Mr President, I should like to thank You should know details, you can't talk about it in three minutes. I can only tell you that the policy of our country was successful. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn.]] They underestimate the influence that the abandonment of nuclear power has had in Austria. Of course the money costs. They underestimate the importance of having opted for an environmental energy policy. It costs money. There are, of course, economic and economic tensions, and there is no discussion about them at all. [[Abg. Ing. Nut trees: You said the nuclear power is more expensive, now you say the nuclear power is cheaper! They disagree!]] I may call you an objection: On the one hand, you criticize and think that one or the other is bad. In the same breath, you say you're afraid we'll be bought up. – So if Austrian electricity is so bad, I wonder why it is so desirable. [[Abg. Ing. Nut trees: You have accommodated the privileges!]] I call you the main reason: The main reason is a more strategic one, because we have a hugely important geopolitical grid. That, ladies and gentlemen, is what is desired. And that shows that we are right in this regard with our energy policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Nutbaumer: I am very surprised that you say that the nuclear power price is lower!]] That means that overall our energy policy was correct. One must be grateful to the fathers and grandparents, for one of the conditions for the rise of Austria to that country that we are today was a functioning energy economy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e15687	Mr Farnleitner has now spoken. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e15709	Mr President. High house! First of all, a few remarks to stay in the jargon: There are few sectors in Austria where each reform is expected to face such large, well-organized and determined resistances that have been cemented for centuries as in the field of the e-economics. If you look at how the "phases" have gone, it is clear that together with the government groups we have laboriously taken obstacles to obstacles. Now the most important thing, apart from what is said about criticism here too, is to see what criteria there are and how the markets have responded to what we have now negotiated, what you will decide today. First of all: For a very long time, there was a risk that, in view of the fears of some business leaders, those entrepreneurs who recorded up to 49 percent on international markets in shares, capital destruction, loss of values, and Austrian savers also had to face losses of money. It is true that, despite all the rating agencies, international capital markets have not done anything, but have even increased our water values for the two largest companies. In other words, the international capital markets, which are today the most critical evaluators of national developments, have responded positively. This can be proved. You can hardly disprove that yourself. Second point: the reaction of the major investors and the Austrian major customers. I have had contacts with all Austrian major customers, especially international provenance, in recent weeks, and we have been told everywhere: We are extremely satisfied with the prices already partially negotiated. – New investors have announced that the obstacle to electricity price for investors no longer exists. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the liberals.]] You laugh – I have the examples, you only have the laugh. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Third point: If large international investors continue to expand today, they will do so because they do not want to justify electricity and telephone for the two main main costs. Fourth point: With regard to the alternative discussion, I would join Mrs Langthaler and Mr Barmüller. I'll stick to the basic conviction: If you are so convinced that those alternatives have the great future you are talking about, then I have to say, look for your customers yourself! You have the network access, and you have the opportunity to build your own networks. But to propagate alternatives and then subsidize someone else is not the solution that can be found in a system in which we can also get out of the ears from water. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Barmüller.]] With regard to the alternatives that are most important to us, I join Mr Schwarzböck. The increase in the forest also grows "out of the ears". Therefore, the focus must be on biomass – scientific, research policy and technology for use. Because between 13 million and 15 million solid metres of unused forest growth a year are crying for solutions that harmoniously fit into the scenario, so that we can save ourselves other filling capacities. Therefore, we will implement biogas in Burgenland and the biomass "Wald" for electricity generation in Wiener Neustadt accordingly, because two works with appropriate know-how are already available in Krumbach and the surrounding area. Next point: the important further tasks are network tariffs as well as beached investment. You can rest assured that, in agreement with the main committee, we will find solutions that do not lead to new pension conditions, but that we will have to pay off the essential necessity, otherwise we would not have had to negotiate them for so long. Last point: Austrian lawyer Jelinek said decades ago that there is something like the normative force of the Factic. I don't need a law to do that. What you will hopefully decide here in the House today puts a normative force of the Factical in motion, which will lead to a structural transformation whose pace you all underestimate. I can only tell you from my house: The Austrian core solution has been given substantial impetus by the regulation now to be decided, and the law will no longer be as intentional as it is today if we continue on the basis of these resolutions. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e15797	Thank you, Minister of State. I call Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e15821	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Federal Minister, if you say that for centuries the resistance has been cemented... – Well, then I think that probably has its accuracy. [[Federal Minister Dr. Farnleitner: Not for centuries!]] But it would be possible to redesign the E-Economie with this ElWOG to a decisive extent. I note that this is not the case – at least not the way it corresponds to our ideas. [[Abg. Oberhaidinger: That's something else!]] You know our amendment. Mr Oberhaidinger, who is known to be very committed to renewable energy, has, together with colleagues, both of the energy spokespersons of her group, been led to a motion for a resolution with which we cannot actually start too much. And you're going to get a project promotion and make restrictions. They demand the highest efficiency of the funds used and – in parentheses in your application – the lowest investment costs per kilowatt. [[Abg. Oberhaidinger: Right!]] I do not understand the approach of this unit of measurement. It's a power unit. In your assessment it is obvious to you that it does not matter what seasonally is produced, which energy yield is available. They depend on how much KW has such a thing and how much the construction costs. One must be able to distinguish between work and energy. And you're setting the level of performance. This is not a measure which measures the annual energy yield and thus the contribution of renewable energy to the whole. It would actually be useful to take this ElWOG now to get rid of the Ist-Situation, as it is today in the E-Economie, and by which it is characterized by proporz, by privileges, by mismanagement rather than reasonable market economy. So there is a monopoly instead of competition and excessive electricity prices. We should finally move towards a transparent solution, to a breakdown, to a separation between production and network, as would be desirable. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oberhaidinger.]] What to do You out of it? What will your child, this ElWOG, look like in the future? – There will be a large-scale maintenance of the areas which have been protected so far, a barrier to the use of renewable energy and a sale-out. It has already been mentioned by my previous speaker: The network obviously increases the desire of foreign investors, foreign companies that want to take a foothold here, because this gives market access and the customers become interesting to the respective ones. There is something else I would like to say to you in this context: It is not only the net, but also the Austrian water. I would remind you that it was you from the government parties who ridiculed the liberals when we spoke of our water resources being pumped perhaps or even very likely once to Portugal or Spain. This also increases the desire in the field of e-Economy to use these water resources of the storage power plants with their water reservoirs. They know that there is a feasibility study, and this feasibility study aims to also use the water resources of Austria – now it concerns the Rhone valley, from there it will be pumped onto the Iberian peninsula; sometime it will be Austria. You will hopefully have these statements and this increase in memory. That we have warned you of this, you should not forget that in this ElWOG and in view of the fact that the interested parties are still there, who will buy our domestic e-commerce, and then we are from abroad. Now we are national, after that we will be foreign, and the design of the e-business will be carried out by abroad.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e15892	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Steindl. Mr deputies, 4 minutes of speaking time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e15913	Mr President. Minister! In fact, we are closing a very difficult matter today, and it seems to be an unwritten law in this House: The more difficult matter is, the less the presence of colleagues. [[Abg. Haigermoser: I'm here!]] – I didn't mean you, I meant you in general. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Oberhaidinger and me, we are here!]] I am sure that the next item on the agenda will be a full house again when it comes to the tent festival problem. I would like to focus briefly on a few points. First: This law is a successful compromise, and the dissatisfaction of many who act in the opposite direction ultimately shows that it becomes a good law. Secondly, The compromise in this law shows that it is once to overcome a transition from a monopoly to competition. For example, the discussion in the Subcommittee clearly showed that there was a wide range of different views. I now take Mr Prinzhorn's statement, which has meant that it should not be seen by liberalism at all. Mr Langthaler wanted to have much more quota arrangements in the field of renewable energy, i.e. more in-cision. Third point: However, the treatment also shows that parliamentarianism is alive, because we have had a lot to do with the government proposal. I would also like to thank colleagues who have proven a great deal of expertise. Fourth: Many of the provisions in this law have to prove themselves, for example, I am thinking about the destination of consumables. There were also different views, discussions. One probably had to manifest this provision in order to solve special problems – I say this so dry now. Whether this has a natural impact on other areas – keyword: Shopping centers versus retail, close-up suppliers – you will see in the future. I hope there are no circumvention structures, but that will prove to be the case. I believe that this ElWOG will not only bring price reduction benefits to large customers, but in the future it will also bring to the individual households in the long term. Sixteenths: There is a rationalisation effect that will not only exist in the short term, but also in the long term. There will certainly be some restructurings in the energy industry. There is a visible sign in the direction of ecologisation. That's what my friend Schwarzböck stressed. Of course, Mr Minister, you have said that, we need a significant technological boost in biomass. I can only support that. One last: It is an important step in the right direction, a milestone in the energy industry, but it will not be the last. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e15964	The next speaker is Mr Eder. Please, honourable Member. They'll be out for 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e15985	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am also one of those Members who believe that this law, which we have here today, has been taken into account, but three points have been taken very seriously. On the one hand, the consumer is. The consumer can now assume, in the light of the decision of this law, that the pricing is calculable and predictable for him and will not, above all, result in price increases. Secondly, this law also shows very clearly that Austria's industrial location can and will remain an industrial location, because it also provides for the industry to calculate and remain competitive. Thirdly, it is true that employees in this industry – it was not so easy to bring all of this under the roof and the trade – also know what they are and can also calculate accordingly in their personal considerations. Above all, it is true that this law does not mean that there will be too much change from today to tomorrow. However, I also agree to make a few other comments in this situation, namely that the E-Economics in Austria has now been given legal framework in which it will have to restructure itself. This restructuring - I think I also represent to a considerable extent the opinion of the Federal Minister - should go in a sense that Austria is creating an energy society or two energy companies of a long-term nature, which are structured in such a way that they can also be a partner in the European market within the common European structure. I believe that this path is not necessarily right, in which we leave our structures so that, as an example in the ESTAG, there may be an APA message from Paris on energy policy in the Styria, namely the EdF, the Electricité de France, the Styria, which pricing, which strategies, which will have to be implemented for the next energy companies or for the next energy companies. I believe that energy policy is an important, valuable thing that we should be able to manage to a considerable extent at national level in the future. I also believe that in the next few years, our industry and the e-Economie in this form will be structured accordingly under this law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e16033	The next speaker is Mr Marizzi. Please, honourable Member. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e16055	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Hofmann referred to organisational changes in the E-Economics. That may be true, but, Mr Hofmann, the organization does not change prices, but prices change the market. If one today assumes that nuclear power costs 18 to 36 sizes and costs us electricity 53 to 60 sizes, then it will be so that the market price will, of course, also be the determining force in Austria. I said in committee that this ElWOG is the smallest common denominator. We are discussing today the fundamental medium-term changes in the E-Economics. The Federal Minister has said that in a few years, this law is macular. I believe this too, Mr Federal Minister, because, as you have said, the normative force of the Factic will force us to think quite differently. From my point of view, I would like to make a few comments. We have managed almost the square of the circle: at the same time to protect and liberalize. Ladies and gentlemen! Let's take a look at a few figures: The EdF produces 370 000 gigawatt hours, the RWE 120 000 gigawatt hours, the compound 24 000 gigawatt hours, the Vienna current 9 000 and the EVN 5,000 to 6,000 gigawatt hours. We already recognize the magnitude of the scale, where we recognize the environment in which we move, and we probably only play the Piccolo Flute in this energy concert in Europe. We must be aware of this. Ladies and gentlemen! If you see what reserves the nuclear economy has in Europe – 500 billion – and thank you for pushing it into the Austrian market – my colleague Eder has already said that with regard to the EdF – then you have to create the conditions for it. The Federal Minister, the Federal Chancellor and the Secretary of State have tried to find an Austrian solution. Unfortunately – and you have to say that with all the clarity – it has failed at the home master's thinking of the countries. We could have saved this – in this respect Mr Hofmann is already right – but it is precisely in Austria that the countries are talking with us. When I consider that we are producing 70 or 75 percent of our energy from the hydropower we are very proud of, I say that not the hydropower is stranded investment, but nuclear energy, because, ladies and gentlemen, 76 percent of Germans are already speaking against nuclear energy. And if you look at industrial electricity prices, you can see how much France is below our prices due to nuclear power generation. Another point to conclude – perhaps we should think about it – is that: I say that nuclear energy is subsidized, that it is the wrong way, is ultimately the more expensive way. If you look at the radiant castor transports, if you don't know what to do with the scrapped nuclear power plants, if the disposal is not ensured, you have to consider – even a small country like Austria – whether the Competition Commissioner van Miert should not even examine whether nuclear power generation is distorting competition. On the one hand, it is subsidized by the military economy, and on the other hand, everyone else pays for disposal. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that hydropower has a future in Austria and that there is a slow rethinking in Europe. I also believe that it is necessary, in the case of a price gap – in order to return to the beginning – to examine from 53 sizes for our hydropower energy as opposed to nuclear energy by 18 to 30 sizes and to consider whether nuclear energy is at all competitive. I believe that we should take up this idea, because otherwise the sale of Austrian energy will result.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e16106	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Merchant. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e16127	Mr President. Minister! In fact, I have only two comments on this ElWOG, namely: There will be a market opening. As part of this market opening, the preferred customers, in particular industry, will have to pay less for electricity, and tariff customers will no longer have to pay for it. There will therefore be a gap, and the big question is how to close this gap. Of course, this is in principle only through earnings or productivity progress. Therefore, Mr Minister, the following suggestion: In the case of productivity progress, it should be noted that this is not primarily and primarily at the expense of employees. Because we have a very, very well-crusted structure in the Austrian e-business, we have large reserves by coordinating the use of power plants by operating power plants that others could operate cheaper at the same time. It is therefore necessary, in the regulations, to deal primarily with reserves and not to save primarily on employees in the e-business. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] – First remark. My second comment, Mr Minister, refers to the motion for a resolution that we have put very much on, because it provides that budgetary tariffs should not in any way rise. It is stated in this resolution that prices for tariffs are up to 1. ==References====External links== January 2001 and 1. January 2003 can only be increased if there is a real justification for high price increases in primary energy use. It must be said that this is actually a contribution by households to this overall compromise, because that means that households do not participate in the future growth in productivity. This is a major contribution by households. It also calls on you, Mr Minister, that, if necessary, you should carry out a electricity price procedure, thus preventing price increases. I do not expect such a electricity price procedure to be necessary, but if it is necessary, I hope that you will actually take this resolution into account. Minister! If we are already talking about price regulation and price procedures, I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that we have a second energy market, namely the petrol and diesel market, on which a price regulation would be necessary, because we are far above the international price level. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e16182	There is now a speech by the honourable Member Mag. Gaßner. 3 minutes of time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e16203	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This Electricity Economic and Organisation Act has been discussed for a long time. In my opinion, the particular problem of this law lies in the fact that, in principle, it is the achievement of two partially contradictory objectives, namely the objective of liberalisation and the objective of security of supply. I think that this ElWOG to be decided on today will make this compensation. Energy supply companies tend to do so very often – and this has greatly complicated the development of this law – to place their private interests on the interest of an energy-efficiently optimal and nationwide overall solution. Therefore, the appeal to energy undertakings: Liberalisation is an opportunity, and solutions are to be sought instead of against each other! The famous beached investments, which are no longer worth investing, have already been discussed more often and in detail. Now the Federal Minister is speaking on this question. Leave I would just like to conclude by saying two more comments. The first comment relates to renewable energy hydropower: Hydropower must be made competitive by further rationalization measures, with all other rationalisation potentials being exploited before today often as the only rationalization measure, namely the reduction of personnel. Second comment: We must insist at EU level, ladies and gentlemen, that a better methodology for evaluating the true economic costs of various energy sources, especially nuclear power, be developed. If this correct cost assessment is successful, the hydropower will prove to be quite competitive in the future. For this reason alone, however, there must be no sale of the Austrian e-business. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e16246	There is no more word message. The debate is therefore closed. Mr Dipl.-Ing. Mr Schöggl, the rapporteur on item 6 of the agenda, asked for a conclusion. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e16265	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In the short time provided for the rapporteur, I will conclude with our motion for a resolution 543/A(E). Ladies and gentlemen! We – or you – decide on the most important law, the most important presentation of today’s day, but I would warn you to adopt the law in this form. Then: It does not bring liberalisation, it brings too many uncertainties through regulatory empowerments, and it does not bring any improvements to consumers. [[Abg. Arbitrators: This is not the rapporteur! Mr President, step in.]] - Thank you. Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e16311	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl! Despite your group's vote, I would like to say that the rapporteur's final word cannot be a contribution to debate within the meaning of the Rules of Procedure. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Who has started with this, Mr President?]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Lively calls to the SPÖ and to the liberals.]] [[Call at the SPÖ: He has no idea!]] So we want to hold this for the future. Ladies and gentlemen! We shall be voting separately on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall first vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1305 of the Supplements. This draft law contains constitutional provisions and also has the content of adopting a Federal Constitutional Act. I therefore begin by stating the presence of the constitutional number of Members required by the Rules of Procedure for the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this bill to give a positive signal. – This is the majority, and I expressly note that the constitutional quota required is the two-thirds majority. We shall come to the third reading, and I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this in third reading. – The draft was also adopted at third reading, expressly including the quota required by constitutional law. We are now voting on the resolution annexed to the Committee's written report 1305 as Appendix 2 on the promotion of renewable energy sources. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – This request has been accepted by the majority. (E 128.) We are now voting on the resolution annexed to the Committee's written report 1305 as Appendix 3 on the price evolution of tariff customers. Whoever agrees, may give a sign. – This request has been accepted by the majority. (E 129.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn and comrades concerning the reorganisation of the Austrian electricity industry. If you agree to this request, I would ask for a sign to be given. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We are now voting on the draft law, title and receipt in 1306 of the Supplements. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill. - That's the majority. This draft has been adopted by a large majority. We shall vote in third reading. Whoever agrees to this, I ask for a corresponding sign of approval. – The draft has also been adopted by the majority at third reading. Finally, we shall vote on the request of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy to take note of its report 1307 of the supplements. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This awareness is mostly taken. 7. Point Report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on motions for resolution 813/A by Mr Peter Kostelka, Mr Jakob Auerund Comrades on a Federal Act amending the Trade Regulation in 1994 (1308 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e16415	We shall now proceed to item 7 of the agenda. There was no oral reporting. We are beginning the debate with Mr Haigermoser's speech. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e16443	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! It is undisputed that for a functioning community Associations are important and necessary and these associations – most of them also present here – carry out huge public tasks for the Community free of charge. But just as important are the tourism industry and the hospitality, ladies and gentlemen, and that is why we should have used "Festzelte" for this sector in the course of the legislative process. You from the socialist coalition, especially you from the ÖVP, have "created" it – under quotation marks – to let go of the hospitality to the clubs, on the other hand the associations to the hospitality industry. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This, ladies and gentlemen, is the real community in this innovation. Therefore, for this and many other reasons, we do not agree with this law. [[Abg. Fink: You're against the clubs!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: You're against the clubs!]] We confess to the rights of the associations, ladies and gentlemen, and we confess to the need to enable the clubs to survive. We have put forward a number of proposals. But the bad conscience of those "right" fighters for the host industry, namely Mr Stummvoll, Mr Maderthaner and Mr Puttinger, has manifested themselves, Mr Leiner, because they have missed the committee's deliberations, they have stolen themselves in innocence. Instead, you have put Mrs Rauch-Kallat in the committee, which, in her speech, has shone through ignorance, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: No interruptions!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: What do you have against the woman's smoke-callat?]] We have said that we want to have a law with accompanying measures to enable the host to survive on the one hand and on the other hand to give the associations what is due to you, namely, according to the motto: Give to the Pope what the Pope is and to the emperor what the emperor is! [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: Tell them you're against the clubs!]] Once again, they from ÖVP were not ready – we have precisely stated this in our minority report – to deliver to the gastronomy those promises that you make daily for her in your Sunday speeches. You did so, too, when, through President Maderthaner, you handed tens of thousands of signatures to the German Chancellor Vranitzky to abolish the drinking tax effectively. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: You were there too!]] We are once again giving you the opportunity to live up to these promises, Mr Puttinger, by accepting a motion for a resolution which I shall now read: [[Complaints with the liberals]] [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Haigermoser, please arrange the finances of the communities!]] For the above reasons, we would like to point out in the explanatory statement why we are making this request, and also because of your proposals, Mr Puttinger, the Members who have been tabled the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Today, ladies and gentlemen, you will have the opportunity to give up your own rabies or your affidavits to the gastronomy. One could have assigned good conscience to the associations the rights to them, for the associations are also interested in a functioning local community. The clubs are interested in the fact that there is still the church administrator so that they can carry out their club activity there beyond the tent festivals. The merger, the networking of the interests of the associations and the host would have been easier if you had taken fiscal measures, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. May. Steindl: Haigermoser, are you against or before?]] A further expression of your bad conscience can be found in the Committee's statement, Mr Steindl, which reads as follows: "The Economic Committee assumes that at events within the meaning of § 2 para. 1... the agreement between the organiser and the local host industry is sought." We have not yet experienced such a salt office in this Parliament. [[Abg. Fink: Proposal!]] This is exactly that bad conscience, ladies and gentlemen, which you have accompanied in all the law. [[Abg. Fink: Proposal! Not just against the clubs!]] They have not given to the associations what they owe, not to their hosts, but to all of them. They have sowed dissatisfaction between these two important groups of people, ladies and gentlemen, and once again they have fallen by the wayside. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You do not receive any consent from us to this law unless you agree with the motion for a resolution by us liberals.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e16657	Mr Auer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e16678	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Especially dear fire brigades at the gallery! Once again, the liberal attitude has confirmed itself: The liberals vote against the necessary change in the trade regulations and therefore also against the fire brigades, and at the same time they apply for the removal of the drinking tax in order to take the last funding base for the communities, which they also need to be able to at least partially help fire brigades. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This change of law makes it absolutely clear what has been in practice in our country for years, even decades. As an active fireman, I am pleased that those events that serve the purpose of being able to co-finance facilities so as to be able to acquire disaster relief equipment, equipment for the recovery of injured and other necessary things can take place in the future without official persecution. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is almost impossible to believe that there are still people who show so much idealism and enthusiasm for use, who sacrifice holiday days and make trainings to be available to society in the face of difficulties, in the recovery of injured people, in the event of storms, fires and other emergency services. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is therefore necessary to say thank you from this point of view from the forces of the fire brigade, the rescue of the mountains, the rescue of water and other areas for the thousands of hours of work for the benefit of society! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ as well as the Liberal Forum.]] Of course, it would be desirable for the communities to have a sufficiently large financial scope to be able to finance all these needs out of the state of play. But this is not possible, especially for the smaller rural communities, because there is no financial power. Then there would not be many such necessary facilities. In this respect, Austria would be a poor country. However, I am convinced, Mr Haigermoser, that the economy as a whole, tourism and, ultimately, gastronomy will benefit in total if there is and can be a wide variety of club life in each municipality. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The economic situation of a good guest house does not depend on whether there is a tent festival more or less, ladies and gentlemen, but it is rather the question whether there is a reasonable relationship in a community between the institutions of the public, the sports clubs, the fire brigades, the music chapel, the hostess and the community itself. I'm just a little example of this – I've had the facts and the data given –: My music chapel issued 54 000 S for inn bills last year, so that sometimes a jause or lunch with a drink can be financed for the members in the most varied expressions. The cashier confirmed to me today: Wouldn't there be the possibility of every two years – every two years, please! – to organise such a tent festival, the Musikvereinskasse could not afford these expenses. – And in the end, the hostess also benefits from this, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is also clear that: This bill protects both tent festival organizers and host operators. In clear text: So far, there have been so-called Alibi site relocations. That's not gonna happen in the future. It was made clear that the organiser is on his own account and in danger – on his own account and in danger! – taking into account water law, hygiene, waste and other provisions, a three-day festival may be held each year – without bureaucracy, without a host. In many cases, cooperation with a host will also be possible. If this is not possible, the whole is solely for the organiser. Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased that I was able to help, together with Mr Novotny, that in 1993 the tax system for public law was adopted. The same year, together with Mr Neuwirth von der SPÖ, who unfortunately is no longer here in the House, it was possible to regulate the removal of the luxury added value tax for command vehicles in firearms. Today, there will be the third decision together with Mr Heindl, for whose cooperation and fairness I would like to thank very much. I would also like to thank his employees, including my own, of course, for the fact that it is now possible to implement this third important decision-making in the interests of the forces. Honorary forces often have to face extreme situations. All of us can only wish that we never need their facilities personally. But if we claim them, ladies and gentlemen, then we should allow them the technical equipment needed to help them quickly and determinedly. Many such devices are financed from the proceeds of tent festivals. Let's save the fire brigades and the clubs of unnecessary harassment! This law will make this possible!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e16770	I would like to say that Mr Haigermoser's motion for a resolution has been tabled in accordance with the rules of procedure and is included in the negotiations. The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Peter. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e16795	Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! That's a subject where the waves go up. I may be able to bring in facts. In Austria up to 10,000 tent festivals and similar events take place every year. That's about four per municipality on average. The average turnover – which can only be congratulated, which is obviously skilled entrepreneurs – is moving at about half a million schillings. So we're talking about a magnitude of well over 5 billion schilling revenues per year. Some estimates even say that went up to 10 billion schilling. But I want to make a careful estimate here. The exemption in the field of turnover and corporate tax, which Mr Auer has already mentioned, means a tax failure in the order of well over 1 billion schilling a year. The municipalities refrain from drinking tax of 100 million schillings per year. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] They pay the excise duty on the input of goods, Mr Auer, but not on the sale price; that is, the value added amount is not taken into account. So the whole thing is 100 million schilling. This ban is applicable law and is not a debate today. It is a promotion of the activities of these associations which are undoubtedly eligible for funding. We should just keep in mind the order – so that Pharisee does not make too big a flower – that of course it also finances excursions and similar things. [[Abg. Leikam: When they return to the host!]] – They also take place elsewhere. My singing association has once flown from such a feast to America with its yield. That's what it is. [[Abg. Leikam: We could go to the White Roßl!]] The fire brigade of Altaussee, Mr. Colleague, now belongs to the "Schneiderwirt", and she also has a motor boat in Lignano. So, please, let's discuss things in peace – and without looking up to the visitor gallery, where the fire brigades are sitting today. It's just unbearable! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Next point: The free job leave of the employees of the club members enables this celebration first. They will wonder where the daughter of the "Roßl" host will be next summer. She will of course stand in the bar at the fire brigade in Strobl and work there for free because her friend is at the fire brigade. Of course she will. That's just the way it is. In this regard, Mr Auer is right: This is the normative force of the Factic. – Hold, this sentence brought in the Minister of Economic Affairs today! As long as it is a business situation of the shareholders who buy equipment for it, I find it tax-free; but if it becomes a worthwhile advantage for a trip, then we rather leave it – and don't talk about it. The fact that club life is indispensable is, I believe, undisputed here in the House. In fact, associations have three essential functions: It is not only the service they provide to the Community, but also the training they give to young people. I like what clubs do: They provide young people with additional objectives in addition to their education and vocational training, and they are also very important in the country. It is therefore true that the clubs need the innhouses and the innhouses need the clubs. That's right! However, the following should be noted: If on average in each Community four tent festivals take place and if people go from a radius of 30 or 40 kilometres to these tent festivals of course, then the following will happen: The local gastronomy will halve the coverage contributions it earned in May, June, July, August and September, or these will go further down. Then that will happen, which we all experience in the shallow country and in the mountain regions: that the sum of the business that takes place from October to May will not be enough for the homes affected to get over the rounds. That's the problem! This means that the clubs will then increasingly have no inn available in November or January. Ladies and gentlemen! Be honest: Look out at the flatlands, then you will have to find that one inn is locked by another! You can't explain to me that the hostess and the hostess there are loud idiots who are just too stupid for the business! These hosts simply don't have a chance anymore, because they can't compete at tent festivals anymore. Another point: What quality is, the Chamber of Commerce does not decide, nor do I decide, but the customers decide. 5 million Austrians obviously attend such tent festivals. So there is a certain demand for it. We shall not be able to prevent this demand, there is it now. But that you now allow the coalition parties to determine the whole in the form of a distortion of competition between the gastronomic provider and the firm tent provider – because of course you have the pressure of the clubs in the neck; that is no question at all! – is really the worst of all worst solutions! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] If you had the courage to think really about your form of trade regulation, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties – these words are primarily addressed to the People's Party; the Social Democrats have learned a lot about it and understood it – then you also understand that your trade order is to blame for this distortion of competition. Leave They are a liberal model of the trade order so that everyone can offer their services where they are useful! It is much easier if you give the host the opportunity to offer services to the clubs. I ask the Austrian hostess from this pult to think creatively about how their services should look towards the associations so that they can say in the clubs: We do not do this work, we attract the local host, he should organize the feast! Of course, we associations bring in the employees, including the daughter of the "Roßl" host, who likes to participate in the fire brigade festival. That makes us a decent business anyway! [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: That's right! That's what many do!]] Then you don't need to make such a kneeling solution in which you submit to the pressure from outside and create a crystal clear distortion of competition in the economic field. In fact, you cannot agree with this solution – unless you are afraid. But fear is not a good adviser to political decisions! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We Liberals will call for a separate vote on this item on the agenda. We will not give Z 1 the consent. However, in the other parts you will receive our consent. Now also a comment on the issue of by-law for the hospitality sector, namely that the guests may be brought home. The government parties would have, before the 0.5-promille rule was decided here – which I have agreed to; I would stress this once again – of course have to admit to the hospitality of this by-law. You can't forbid things without a solution. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy's report does indeed contain this by-law of the host sector, only to take it out again by means of an amendment and to invent its own car industry. This means a new membership, a new inclusion fee and a new basic condition. That's a bad solution again. I regret that you deal with these questions in this way, but still wish all the clubs all the best.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e16897	Mr Heindl. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. 4 minutes of time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e16918	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Actually, one should think that today is a day when one could finally say: We have weeks and months of work behind us, so that a delicate problem, particularly in rural areas, can be put in a positive position. – Of course you can again criticize; no question at all. Mr Peter says: Give them freedom of trade, then the problem is solved! - I don't see it like that! I do not think that if one had business freedom in this case, the problem would be different. . I would now like to present to you the position of the Social Democrats. From the very first moment, our group has said that the associations such as the Voluntary Fire Department, the Red Cross, the Sports Associations and other charitable or non-profit organisations are fulfilling a service to the community, which I claim, regardless of the financial nature of the community, but this aspect is also very important – from the point of view of commitment. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Let us be glad, ladies and gentlemen, that in our country – I have heard this today from representatives of the volunteer fire brigade – there are over 300,000 volunteer firemen, over 100,000 officials in sports clubs and tens of thousands of volunteers in church and charitative clubs. Do we really want to hinder these people through bureaucratic bonds? Do we want to hinder them from what they do by self-working for the general public? [[Abg. May. Peter: You don't really believe that yourself!]] However, Mr Peter, although the Members of the ÖVP at the beginning were not so excited about it at all, we have found a really good solution. Jakob Auer, thank you, you have also spoken our language. What were we supposed to do? We first spoke with our colleagues from the federal states. We said: Please, listen to how the situation and the mood is with you at the hosts and also with the organizations! We knew there was a relationship of tension. That's not a question at all. Then we have ourselves with representatives of the organizations – each one! – composed and talked to them for hours. This is one of the few laws that we have made in agreement with those who are concerned, and I am very glad that we have found a common solution that everyone could agree to. Yes, thank you too, Jakob Auer. I have to say: It was, however, sometimes controversial, but from the substance very good discussions. We should be glad that we are now both tax law and industrial law for these associations that are irreplaceable to our country – the activity of these men and women is irreplaceable! – both financially and legally, have created a reasonable basis, free from any bureaucracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e16972	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Steindl. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e16993	Mr President. Minister! We are moving today – thank God! – a final line under a miserable topic that has been following us for months. The truth is that by today's decision we are legitimizing something that has already been done. This means that no one is harmed, but we are simply trying to cast a state into a form of law, so that it no longer happens in the grey sphere. This issue is important for rural areas. We politicians are propagating the village renewal, the social cohabitation. This means not only the construction of the village, but also the social renewal of the village. These include the festivals and the many events. Our society is now an association – and this also has a therapeutic function. But I also understand the gastronomy. Nevertheless, I believe that the law we are going to adopt here today is certainly not against gastronomy. However, I believe that we should link up another package for our economy in order to relieve gastronomy, particularly in the area of debureaucratisation, but also in other important areas. However, the topic of tent festivals is not suitable for this purpose. It is a matter of much more than just tent festivals. It is not only the fire brigade, it is all about associations that are non-profit, because they have economic significance. First: This is also a kind of club promotion. Second – colleague Auer has already stressed this, and as mayor I can only confirm it –: If the fire brigades in our country did not become active, the mayors or the communities would not be able to afford the equipment that is necessary and important. Therefore, they are an important factor. Thirdly, Supplies are always forgotten. In this context, an enormous industry will be operating, which will be delivered at events, at tent festivals and at such events. I now bring you an example from my community: A city festival will be held in the coming weeks, to which a few thousand visitors will certainly come. There are plenty of restaurants in our house, but I don't find a gastronomy company that would be willing to join. This means that in this area the framework conditions are changed, but not in this draft law. To the FPÖ: Mr Haigermoser, your statements bear witness to double-poorness. They said: We would be in favour of this, but then we would have to remove the drinking tax. . I join this in your opinion immediately if you tell me how to actually compensate the communities for this failure of the drinking tax. Because if you have a loss of 1.8 million schilling in drinking tax in a community, you no longer have a budget. And so goes many communities and mayors. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Therefore, this behaviour – similar to that of the debate on the 0.5-promille rule – is to be described as double-bidden. The FPÖ has taken a clear view here: She's against the fire brigades, she's against the clubs. This must also be said in all clarity in the public. The position of the ÖVP is a confession – a clear confession! – to the volunteer fire brigades and to the many non-profit associations of our country. If we vote today, the winners will not be any parties, but the volunteer fire brigades, the clubs and all of us participating in their events. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e17065	Mr Dietachmayr has now come to speak. 3 minutes of time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e17087	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Voluntary fire brigades do vital work in the local area, and, as they also demand other aid organizations or charitative associations providing similar services, no more of politics than that they can themselves obtain the means they need to enable people to be helped and to be able to carry out their tasks. I am therefore very glad that this agreement has been reached here in the House after lengthy negotiations. I do not understand at all that a few days ago, the Chamber of Commerce of Upper Austria, in particular the head of the department of gastronomy, Oberndorfer, was still very much opposed to this regulation and against the 'tent-fix', as he expressed it. In view of this, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you: Is it Push when, for example, the volunteer fire brigades last year in Upper Austria made more than 20,000 technical missions? Is it Push when they completed more than 7,000 fire operations in Upper Austria alone? Is it Push when volunteer helpers are available day and night to store, save and quickly bring to a hospital injured persons? Is it Push when men of the mountain rescue, who have earned themselves at a summer festival, bring people from difficult situations back safely into the valley? Is it Push when workers from the labourer Samaritan covenant stand up for hours at children's or family festivals and immediately nurse small injuries? Is it Push when thousands of volunteer officials in sports clubs stop hundreds of thousands of children – and often very small children – to run sports, to train football with them, and to inspire them for sports? Ladies and gentlemen! I am very glad that this agreement has been reached. I believe that this section president of the Upper Austrian Chamber of Commerce has gone far beyond the goal! That's why the red card is worth him!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e17120	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Gaßner. There are also 3 minutes of time limit for you. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e17141	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would simply like to express my pleasure at the fact that this solution has come for our associations! I am especially glad that we have met this unbureaucratic solution for the many thousands of officials in our clubs – from the voluntary fire brigades to the Red Cross, to the social-caritative clubs, sports clubs and music clubs. I would like to thank all those officials who are dedicated to organizing and working for hours and days in order to be able to use the money generated for the benefit of the public. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would also like to make a comment on the comments made by Mr Peter, who said that the singing association has made a trip to America: As far as I know the proceeds from such festivals, it may only have been a quartet or just a duo, because so much cannot be earned there that you can drive it to America! [[Abg. May. Peter: Dear friend! Then you don't know the tent festivals!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I am glad, as has already been said, that we have found this solution. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] Mr Haigermoser, I would also like to say to you: That you want to injunctify the abolition of drinking tax with this law shows me that you do not have much knowledge of community finances! Or do you want the communities to have only more foreign finances at their disposal, which, as Mr Auer has already said, would fall on the minds of the associations? – I thank you once again for this joint solution!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e17191	I call Mr Marizzi. Only 2 minutes of speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e17209	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Auer! You have to leave the church in the village! I am glad that in the ÖVP the real politicians have prevailed. In this context, I would like to ask Mr Heindl, Mr Heindl and, above all, Mrs Mag. Hans thank you for having made these changes. This must also be thought of, because it was, as I can remember, a difficult discussion with the ÖVP! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Now I come to the volunteer fire brigades to speak: With us in Austria, there are eight fire kills on a million people, in America and in England, where there are only professional firearms, the number is three times as high. I believe that we can be proud of this balance sheet, especially as the volunteer fire brigades provide free service to the population! Mr Peter! They meant that the volunteer fire brigades did not pay any taxes. To this end, I would like to give you a few figures: The volunteer fire brigades in Lower Austria invest 500 million schilling themselves, 300 million schilling they get from the communities, and they pay 83 million schilling sales tax for their investments. Mr Peter! That's not so little! They're not a bad taxpayer either! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Peter.]] – Wait, Mr Peter, I'm not done yet! They have said that there are problems with the tent festivals, because this is a lot of money missing from the gastronomy. To this end, I would like to tell you what I have calculated: If we did not have the volunteer fire brigades, we would have to pay almost as much tax for the fire brigades as for the German army, namely 20 billion schilling! Mr Peter! Where should we get the money? – That’s why we are proud of the volunteer fire brigades, proud of these festivals and proud of today’s day!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e17257	I call Mr Löschnak. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e17278	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Let me make a few remarks about the tent festivals from the point of view of sport. There are about 12,000 sports clubs in this country with around 100,000 volunteer officials and around 2 million active in sports, and, like the volunteer fire brigades, the sports clubs make an undisputed contribution to the general public that is not paid off or can be paid off to them. In order to make the necessary resources available, the sports days, the tent festivals and other more serve, among other things. What was it like so far? – Many of these 12,000 or 13,000 sports clubs have already held one day or two days in Austria, some with the help of a commercial operator, some without a commercial operator. And how will it be due to the new regulation in the future? – These sports festivals or tent festivals will take place again, some clubs will serve the support of traders, and some clubs will hold their festivals without traders. So, in principle, nothing will change – and I want to communicate this here! That is why it will not come to the dreaded losses that Mr Peter has prophesied. [[Abg. May. Peter: I will remind you!]] This will not happen, because it is now legalized only by a change of law, which has already been a reality. I think that was necessary and that this is good! In the sense of the sports active – again: there are 12 000 sports clubs, 100,000 volunteer officials and 2 million sports practitioners – we welcome this novel!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e17316	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Maier. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e17349	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to talk to the tent festivals, but to change the traffic traffic law. Today's reporting in the Austrian media gives a clear answer to why the Chance Traffic Act should be amended: As a result of the introduction of the 0.5-promille limit, accidents were initially reduced and fewer alcoholized handlebars were found during controls. However, the figures are now on the rise again, and further measures are therefore justified. On the basis of the template, guests will now be able to be transported from their own host companies to public transport reception sites and vice versa or from or to their accommodation. This requires a concession for the passenger car industry. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Peter.]] Mr Peter! I would have preferred to have been able to handle this in the form of a right of by-law, but in this context there were other problems. I just remember the problem with vehicle liability insurance! Why does this regulation take place in the country? – In the country of Salzburg, several hospitality operators who had publicly announced a home transport were persecuted by their own competitors and by the taxi industry. There were letters from the association against unfair competition. Therefore, all those who know the situation in the country, where there is hardly any public transport and hardly any taxis, or where those who order a taxi already have to pay 200 s and more for travel, will consider this scheme to be justified. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This scheme is to be understood as a useful measure for raising road safety and as a concrete contribution to the fight against drunkenness in the tax system. Any accident that can be prevented by this would justify this scheme. However, this scheme is also to be understood as a contribution to the preservation of the Austrian host culture, as a follow-up to the 0.5-promille regime. – I can therefore invite you to agree to this scheme.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e17394	The next speaker is Mr Parnigoni. Similarly, 2 minutes of time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e17412	Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! I believe that we have made a good overall arrangement: On the one hand, we have created the fire brigade licence for the voluntary fire brigades in the transport area and, on the other, we have solved an important problem, and on the other hand we have now raised the concerns of the fire brigades with the regulation for the tents. In order to avoid abuse among the associations, the common interest should be put very clearly in the foreground. Therefore, the proceeds of these festivals should not be financed by jux-travels or holiday trips; rather, they should benefit from non-profit purposes, which is absolutely guaranteed by the voluntary fire brigades. I would also like to refer to the regulation which Mr Maier has already referred to: As well as the tent festival scheme, the amendment of the Event Traffic Act is a regulation for the periphery, for the rural communities with which one offers a possibility that the host industry will increasingly care for its customers. It has already been shown that those who commit themselves also have corresponding consent. Ladies and gentlemen! What I regret is that, in the end, all the parties have found a position and are familiar with it – including Mr Peter – but the liberals, which we are already used to, as the 0.5-promille vote is seeking a way out, have actually taken the flight and avoided a decision by any demands they have made. [[Abg. Blünegger: That's not true!]] You have pressed once again before a decision. If it gets brittle, pull in the cock, as it were! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e17448	Mrs Tichy-Schreder spoke. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e17466	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! My veneration of fire brigade commanders! Ladies and gentlemen! All of them on the gallery have survived in full length! [[Abg. Gaál: Against the ÖVP!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I do not entirely agree with the regulation that is being adopted, from the point of view of democracy, because we have tried to stir up different groups with all vehemence against each other. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Kostelka.]] Mr. Klubobmann Kostelka! You yourself have often said that you are not a man of the tent feasts. – I like to go to tent festivals, even at the voluntary fire brigades’ tents, and I also have members of the voluntary fire brigades in my relationship, however, what I would like, ladies and gentlemen, is justice, and I do not think it is very wise from the democratic point of view, gentlemen, that you are – forgive yourself! – have been through with your muscles! [[In the case of the ÖVP and the Abg. Smolle]] I am a woman who likes to make viable compromises, and I believe that at the expense of an organization we cannot enforce everything. I am opposed to this regulation because I believe that the hostess, who contribute a great deal to the culture of life in our country, cannot simply be put aside. I wish you, gentlemen, to act together with the host companies – and I know that this has worked very well in some federal states – because they have the experience of commercial rights, they are subject to business and food inspections and so on. I believe that together we should confess to the Push there and there. We do not do that in this regulation! Since this topic is emotionalized, we are going over a lot with an eye twinkling. As we allow no tax to be paid, we are very strict in others. Gentlemen! I would like to invite you to go to the hostess and organize joint festivals with them. Austria is a country of feasts! I wish you a favor, gentlemen. I know how to appreciate your work, I know what you are doing, and that you are ready to work by day and night. I realize that you need the latest equipment for that. Please forgive me, however: Must be so-called Gamma Knives everywhere, anywhere? Skill Do you not cooperate with each other and use the devices that are important and necessary in common? I believe that we, together – I say quite consciously – because politics... [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Are you actually talking to us or the gallery?]] I speak to the gallery because it is my concern that in future we act together with the gentlemen of the volunteer fire brigade and not against each other. For this reason, because, in my opinion, we should not act out of purely emotionality, but with reason seek compromises, I cannot give my agreement on one point. That is why I shall go out in the vote. For reasons of democracy, I do not want to stir up one against another – hundreds of thousands are the voluntary fire brigades, and the host hosts are 70,000 with family members – but rather seek common solutions. Therefore, my appeal goes to the fire brigade commanders – and I know that is not forgivable –: Be competitive and go to the hostess in the future to find a common solution!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e17532	There is no more word message. The debate is closed. A conclusion of the report was not required. We shall come to the vote, and I would ask the honourable Members to take their seats. Mr Wabl! Rest to take part in the vote? – Then I ask you to take your seat! We shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1308 of the Supplements. Deputies Mag. Peter has asked for a separate vote. Following the practice so far, I shall proceed in such a way that we will first vote on those parts which have been included in the request for separate votes and then vote on the remaining parts not yet voted. We are now voting on Art. I Z. 2 to 7 and Art. II as amended by the Committee's report. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. - That's the majority. This part of the draft law is largely adopted. We are now voting on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I would also like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to agree to a similar sign. – That too is the majority. This part has been accepted by the majority. We shall now come to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to the draft at third reading to give an appropriate sign. – The draft was adopted by a majority of the third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Haigermoser and Mr Comrades on the need to abolish the excise duty on beverages. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Ladies and gentlemen! There is no objection to a certain communication of the plenary session with the gallery, but it should not prevail if I allow this statement to be made! 8. Point Report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 4 on "The occupational integration of young people with disabilities", presented by Dr. Gottfried Feurstein, Dr. Helene Partik-Pablé, Klara Motterund Mag. Walter Guggenberger(1268 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e17633	We're coming to the 8th. Agenda item. There has been no oral reporting, so that I speak immediately as the first speaker in this debate, Mrs Haidlmayr. Is the honourable Member on the way here? - No, I don't. The word message does not take place. That is why Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé is speaking. Time limit: 4 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e17657	Ladies and gentlemen! A petition on the vocational integration of young people with disabilities should be discussed in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, but it has been referred from there to the Committee on Social Affairs. I would like to say to all those in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs: In order to ensure that this petition was transferred to the Committee on Social Affairs, you have done diametrically to the contributors of this petition, and you have also proved that you are not prepared to deal with a matter in that committee, either because you have had no interest in it or because you have had no ideas and no time. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mrs. Tichy-Schreder! I would like to address you personally, because you are the chairman of the committee: Do you think that, when a petition or a request is made, it is automatically about social cases and this request automatically belongs to the Committee on Social Affairs? – That’s just wrong! The introductions of this petition have clearly stated what they want to change. You have clearly shown the shortcomings that young people who are weak on their way to work are facing! [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] There are problems in this context, for example, with vocational schools relating to the limited supply of training, and these are really not a matter for the Committee. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Tichy Schreiter.]] Mrs. Tichy-Schreder! In this context, it is about insufficient professional preparation, which is not a matter for the Committee, but either one of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs or at least one of the Committee on Education. I think it is simply not right for the Committee on Social Affairs to get rid of everything that has to do with the disabled. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Something else bothers me: The economy has documented that it is obviously not prepared to deal with people who do not "function" a hundred percent, who have certain difficulties. The economy can obviously only deal with people who work first-class, where there are no difficulties working towards profit maximisation, increase sales and so on. I understand that. But I believe that the economy also has the obligation to deal with a request for a career career. If it fits in with you, you always say that the government does not create jobs, but the economy. But when it comes to such a problem, it is obvious that you suddenly want the Social Committee to create jobs for disabled people. – I would recommend: In the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the proposal from the Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy is responsible for providing jobs and for opening up a way for young people with disabilities to work.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e17750	Mrs Haidlmayr has now been reported to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e17769	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The allocation of the petition No. I believe that the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment is totally missing, because in principle it concerns training and job creation for people with disabilities, and this has nothing to do with social matters, but it is only a question of designing curriculums in vocational schools or of creating jobs in the economy through regular jobs. One cannot make it so easy that one goes here and automatically refers this issue to the Committee on Social Affairs, on the grounds that it is about people with learning disabilities. This group of persons is not a non-learning person, but only a weak person. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] There is nothing else to be achieved, just as Mr Bösch wants in this petition, than that someone who is weak is automatically declared disabled in order to get to the funds of the European Social Fund. Therefore, weak people are qualified as disabled. I signed this in 1995, at the very beginning of my work as a Member, because I trusted you, Mr Feuerstein, when you presented it to me and said that I should sign it as soon as you need it again. At the time, I have still trusted in this House that at least the social speakers of the individual political groups want the integration of disabled people. That's why I signed that, but I was taught to a better person very quickly. I have mentioned this several times in discussions: Most of them are not about integration, but you want to maintain the exception. Now I have no longer signed this petition, because it is a very concrete matter of an exceptional measure. Ladies and gentlemen! I would ask you never to assign this petition to the Committee on Social Affairs, because it clearly has nothing to do with it. The allocation must be made to the Committee on Education and if you think that it does not belong there, it must remain in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. The economy should be given a good chance to improve the situation of young people with disabilities and to give them jobs! The referral to the Social Committee would mean nothing but that you do not want to deal with the situation of young people with learning disabilities, in order to be honest. Because you've already signed this petition, but you don't even care about the petition's concern, you want to send it in the circle now! It is important to me, however, that this petition, if it is already there, be dealt with at least where it belongs, and that is not the Social Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e17810	No one has been reported in the word anymore. That is why the debate is closed. Since there is no final word from the rapporteur, we are entering the voting procedure. I ask the honourable Members to take their place. First of all, we are voting on Mrs Partik-Pablé's motion for a resolution. 4 on the vocational integration of young people with disabilities to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy to take note of its report 1268. If you would like to agree to this note, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. The request was accepted. I would like to point out the petition No. 4 to the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. 9. Point Report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on the Government template (1200 of the Supplements): Federal Law amending the Fertilizers Act 1994 (1342 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e17871	We're now on the 9th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are therefore immediately entering the debate. First of all, Mr Deputies is a friend. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e17899	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! With this amendment, which amends the Fertilization Act 1994, we are primarily dealing with problems arising from the marketing of fertilizers in practice during execution. The current fertiliser law refers only to non-mineral fertilisers and excludes new fertilisers from the individual authorisation procedure. In practice, this had the effect that certain mineral fertilizers could only be placed on the market for certain defects. So far, mineral fertilizers had to be included in the type list of this law. An inclusion in this type list was only possible by means of a regulation. They were excluded from the individual authorisation procedure – that is, from the possibility of allowing a mineral fertiliser to be allowed by a decision. In general, the following applies: Products subject to the Fertilizers Act should have consistent quality and be safe for humans, animals and the environment. Furthermore, the likelihood that the products subject to the Fertilizers Act still contain unknown dangerous substances should be very low. The possibility of the authorisation of mineral fertilisers in a decision-making form rather than by regulation does not lead to an environmental downturn, as fertiliser products subject to a first authorisation in a decision-making form must in principle meet the general requirements of the fertiliser regulation. Such an individual authorisation procedure is intended to clarify in advance whether a fertiliser fulfils the approval requirements with regard to certain minimum requirements: whether, for example, the soil is well maintained, whether the effects of the unknown substances contained are low, dangerous or rather very dangerous or whether other side effects and loads are to be estimated. All of this has to be clarified before a fertiliser is produced and placed on the market, whether it is authorised by regulation or by notification. The necessary modification of § 9a facilitates the placing on the market of mineral fertilisers. The authorisation procedure for the new products is much easier and leads to faster mobility. Similarly, today's novelle extends the transitional period for fertilisers to another five years. At the same time, this will bring it into line with the provisions of the Chemicals Act. The transfer of various tasks to the Federal Office and Research Centre for Agriculture is also new. The result is a further reduction in the procedures. This administrative simplification also makes it extremely useful for both the administration and the economy. In summary, it can be noted that today's federal law makes it clear in execution and in enforcement proceedings. I therefore welcome this further step towards debureaucratisation and administrative simplification. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It seems important to me to mention the following: In principle, fertiliser consumption in Austria can be highlighted positively. The reform of the EU's common agricultural policy in 1992 has led to a significant decline in implementation. On the one hand, there are the organic farmers who are allowed to use only certain, few fertilisers. On the other hand, participation in the ÖPUL – i.e., in the Austrian environmental programme – also obliges conventional businesses to use a moderate fertiliser. On the whole, therefore, one can speak of success in the environmental field. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! That is why I welcome these legal adjustments in the Fertilization Act and I would like to give my consent to them. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e17953	Mr Wimmer has also been mentioned on the floor. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e17974	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is today about the revision of the Fertilization Act. I'm not quite on your side, dear friend Karl! I think that the question of sewage sludge, in which there are problems, must be addressed in the first place. We have been waiting a very long time for a regulation on this subject. I assume that we will come to a solution in this matter this autumn. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Let me present a few thoughts on the problem of sewage sludge on this occasion, since it has been with us for some time and since no solution has yet been found on this question. A few facts about this: We know that almost 4 million cubic metres of sewage sludge per year from the treatment of municipal waste water. Since there is no federal regulation – in the end this problem – that regulates agricultural production, the municipalities remain on a growing mountain of sewage sludge. This problem is already going on for some time. Much and intensive discussion was already under way in 1994. However, we have not yet found a solution on this issue, and I think that is a very unsatisfactory state. There are a few approaches at national level, but they are not sufficient. Of the nine federal states, about six countries have regulations that allow the use of sewage sludge in agriculture. I do not want to hide the fact that Lower Austria has the highest standards in this area and is carrying out the most extensive implementations. But we also need to keep an eye on the relationship. It's always about very small quantities. Thus, only 12 percent of the sewage sludge in Lower Austria can be reintroduced into the circulatory economy. I would like to point out that it works particularly well in this area in Vorarlberg. There, of course, the scale plays an important role, and that is why it is easier. But there are also international examples that show how this problem is addressed. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Since 1986 there has been a scheme in the European Union concerning the use of sewage sludge. It is remarkable that these directives explicitly allow for stricter national measures. But what does it look like in our neighbouring countries? – In 1992, the Federal Republic of Germany has already departed from the country system as we still have it, and today implements the EU standards in the form of a federal uniform regulation. That's why I mean: This must also be possible with us, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On this occasion, I would like to point out that the Federal Environment Agency made a comprehensive study on this issue in the previous year. The results of this study are clear: It notes that the vast majority of the sewage sludge in question is suitable for the application to the fields used in agriculture. I therefore believe that this possibility must be pushed forward with all vehemence. I believe that more than four years of discussion are enough. It is about creating a single federal regime and, of course, implementing it in the form of a regulation. I should like to remind you today that four years ago the former Minister for Agriculture and today's Commissioner Fischler promised this regulation. Unfortunately, we still didn't get it. After all, we need uniform quality criteria. However, it is not a good solution to move this problem to the countries. We see a first important step towards a good solution in the current revision of the Fertilization Act and will therefore give our consent to this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e18041	Mrs Aumayr has also been mentioned. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e18062	Mr President. Minister! High house! Mr Wimmer! I can understand your concerns about sewage sludge. However, you must also admit to the farmers: They say that the vast majority of the sewage sludge is suitable as a fertiliser – I give you the right – but, so to speak, carries the remaining risk of the farmer. The fact that farmers have become very careful, because they do not want to stand back as the environmental pollution of the nation, you must also admit to the farmers. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The Liberal Group is also in agreement with the Fertilization Act. In my opinion, this law has long been due. In view of the current legal situation, it was true that those farmers who have benefited from the free movement of goods in the EU after accession to the EU actually violated Austrian legislation. Therefore, I believe that this amendment to the Fertilizers Act, three years after Austria's accession to the EU, is now at the highest level of time. It is likely to be carried out only now, because the domestic fertiliser industry has now sold its old stocks and now, as it were, no longer has to fear business losses. For three years, farmers have been waiting for this amendment to the Fertilizers Act, and three years have already been waiting for VAT to be adjusted. The damage to farmers by non-adjustment is 1.7 billion schilling in the year! While the fertiliser as a means of operation will hopefully become cheaper now, the promised approval of the diesel fuel is still not in sight, Mr. Federal Minister! They harm farmers because you do not carry out the adjustment of VAT and do not lower diesel prices and do not introduce a recompensation, by a few billion shillings a year. Federal Minister! I have a question on this matter to you, on Agenda 2000. I read in a magazine published yesterday on your position, Mr. Federal Minister, and on the position of the Federal Government on the enlargement of the European Union: Minister of Agriculture Wilhelm Molterer and Minister of Finance Rudolf Edlinger had informed their government colleagues in the form of a table paper, that is, shortly before the meeting, because they did not want the delicate questions to be quoted EU Easter enlargement and "Agenda 2000" somewhere, as a minister admits. The government had taken the view that some of the EU's funds, which had so far flowed into the pots of agriculture for structurally weak areas, should be used to finance EU enlargement. So farmers would get more in the future, border regions that develop joint projects with the eastern neighbours. Federal Minister! I am particularly concerned about the following passage: The EU Agriculture Minister Franz Fischler should have been "nearly pleased" about the reasonable but not very popular decision of the Austrians – that is, your decision. Federal Minister! What decision have you made as a table template on the Agenda 2000 about which... [[Abg. Schwarzböck: With the answer you will have no joy now!]] No, I'd like to know the content! The farmers know nothing about that. [[Abg. Schwarzböck: With the answer you have no joy!]] They are acting in public against the Agenda 2000 and the Minister of State, Mr Edlinger, is putting a paper on the table with Minister Edlinger on the Agenda 2000 and on the enlargement of the EU to include the enlargement of the EU. I would like to ask you very much for information.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e18135	No one is reported in the word anymore. [[Federal Minister Mag. Molterer gives a handsign.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: The Federal Minister has registered!]] I'm sorry. It doesn't seem to me. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e18171	Mr President. High house! Everything has been said about the Fertilization Act. Mrs Aumayr! It would be the first time that the FPÖ would give the "profile" a hundred percent faith. I'm not doing it. [[Abg. Aumayr: I ask you!]] You will find next week in the "profile" a joint letter from Rudolf Edlinger and me, in which it says that this report of the "profile" does not correspond to reality. It is true, on the contrary, that Mr Edlinger and I have presented a Council of Ministers presentation which states that the financial basis for agricultural policy is in the future the agricultural guideline and this agricultural guideline is not disputed. This is the common position of the Federal Government. It is also the joint position of the Federal Government that the expenditure planned in the Union's financial framework for enlargement of the EU will actually be disbursed only in the case of enlargement of the EU. This is a very reasonable procedure, which I am proud of, because it disputes the agricultural guidelines for the Austrian farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e18212	Thank you very much, Minister of State. No-one's been reported in word now. The debate is therefore closed. As the rapporteur does not wish for a final word, we are entering the voting procedure. – I ask you to take your place. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1342 of the Supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this bill to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. The request was accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to the draft law at third reading to give an appropriate sign. – This too is done by the majority. The draft law was therefore adopted at third reading. 10. Point Report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on the Government template (1198 of the Supplements): Federal Law amending the Wine Act 1985 (1341 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e18267	We're coming to 10. Agenda item. The rapporteur is Mr Schrefel. He made a print error correction to the distributed written Committee Report 1341 of the Supplements. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e18285	I correct a print error in the Committee's report, which is in writing, 1341 of the Supplements, and I inform you of the following: Under point 3 in § 61 para. 1 Z 6 "that are not of a healthy nature" has to be replaced by the phrase "for immediate human consumption" because it occurs twice in the sentence. On behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, I therefore propose that the National Council give constitutional approval to the draft law in 1341 of the supplements, taking into account the pressure error correction I have just presented.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e18307	Thank you very much, rapporteur. We are now entering the debate. Mr Salzl was the first to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e18333	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we discuss once again the supposedly strictest wine law in the world. This restrictive wine law was designed as an event law in the course of the wine scandal and was then supposed to be the difficult image... Yes. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: With social democratic and free participation!]] [[Abg. Schwarzböck: With free voices!]] If you listen to me, then you will notice that I am not criticizing the intention at that time and for myself. She was right in my opinion. This law should help to improve the difficult image of Austrian wine again. At the time, control mechanisms were introduced from producers to consumers. It was created, so to speak, by the glass wine maker. Purpose messages for predicate wines, harvest reports, stock reports per 30. ==References== ==References== ==References====External links== Nevertheless, a continuously guided cellar book was equally necessary. Official transport certificates were also required for sale. This guaranteed a complete control of the wine from the grape harvest to the consumer. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is therefore incomprehensible that, despite the declared complete control and other promises before accession to the EU, the banderoles in quality wines have still been maintained. An additional report has been introduced instead of the promised liberalisation and debureaucratisation. Accompanying papers were introduced in the transport of wines. Our wine industry has not been liberalised and made competitive for years, but I believe it is regulated to death, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There is no doubt that there is a need for controls to be carried out, but there is a need to abolish shocks which hinder the competitiveness of our wine-growers and that they still cost a lot of money in today's difficult time. Such a shock, which in addition to time and work also costs around 25 to 30 million schillings, has become the obsolete banderoles. As every expert knows – that was admitted in the committees at the time; I remember it was in the 1995 discussions – it was never a quality criterion – the quality criterion was the state test number – but always a quantity control instrument and a tax picker. Ladies and gentlemen! As such, it has become unnecessary and useless: on the one hand, because in the course of the glass winemaking of every litre Wine is included, and on the other hand, because agricultural and table wines are excluded from this quantitative collection as well as foreign wines. Since these are excluded from the adhesive of the banderoles, they are no longer a quantitative control instrument. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Nor does today's novelties bring liberalisation and no improvement in the situation for our wine farmers, but they provide them with additional controls on exports of predicate wine in larger bonds, they provide them with more bureaucracy, and it tightens the criminal conditions and the criminal framework. In my opinion, all these measures are, in particular, the smaller and medium-sized, but not the large wine-growing plants and not the commercial companies, because they can do so. Before they put it on the market and apply for the state test number, they will have the wine examined privately and then come to the test site with the corresponding examination results and with the knowledge that the wine is analytically in order. The small wine-growers who do not know this and for which shortcomings occur in the investigation, however, have problems and sanctions to fear. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We liberals will therefore not give our consent to any further deterioration in the situation of our wine growers.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e18390	Mr Zweytick has also been reported on the floor. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e18411	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Federal Minister! Dear colleague Salzl! As far as I can remember, one of the most important measures following the 1985 wine scandal was the introduction of the volumes for quantity control, because the main causers were those large companies which produced artificial wine. In order to protect small and medium-sized enterprises, it was simply necessary to secure, maintain and develop the image of Austrian wine. [[Abg. Wabl goes to the speaker's desk, takes a wine bottle that the speaker has put on it, and goes in the direction of the exit.]] [[Cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Wabl claws!]] This was the first important measure adopted or adopted by the legislator. I think it is fair to admit this, especially as the wine industry in Austria has experienced a recovery. Since 1985, the quality and image of Austrian wines have been recognized worldwide. I would like to tell you the following, dear colleague: In 1985 an Austrian journalist asked a high-ranking politician in France: What do you say about the Austrian wine scandal? – After that, the politician said: That's right, Austria also has wine? The Federal Government has already responded to all these statements in 1985 and then in 1986 with a very strict law. Today we are ready to be awarded prizes not only in France but also worldwide. The good image of Austrian wines has been restored, and our wines are now very famous. [[In the case of the ÖVP, the members of the SPÖ and the Agg. May. Peter.]] Now a brief comment on the proposal of the liberals: I cannot imagine that what you are proposing would be useful, yes, I think it would be very dangerous to implement what you are proposing here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Aumayr.]] Dear Mrs. Aumayr! I don't think you can talk much about it. Now I come to the Federal Law, which amends the Wine Law 1985. With the present federal law, another important extension to ensure the quality of Austrian wine will enter into force. Severe cases – such as harmful wine, wine in which oenological procedures were not permitted, and wine that has been watered – are covered by existing EU law. This means that these excesses will now also be suspected of criminal punishment, and this leads to further, more severe punishments. It is time to finally innovation this. If the penalties become sharper, the risk of a new wine scandal will certainly be more effective. Smaller offences will continue to be committed by the District Administration with fines of up to 100 000 S as administrative infringements. It must be said that this is actually in line with the wishes of consumers and those of producers, but also with those of the wine industry. It has already been called upon to make clear the penalties for cases in which wine is watered, in order to prevent the risk of a new scandal in our wine industry. The consequences of a second such wine scandal would go to the level of ten hundred million schilling and could not be made up of anything, even with a more stringent wine law, in order to achieve rehabilitation. A second such scandal of our wine industry would simply be fatal. We have experienced this and know what we are talking about. That is why this approximation to EU law is correct. It is not only in the interests of producers but also in the interests of consumers. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Müller.]] The small transmission errors – I would also like to stress – that occur in laboratory analysis or also in the printing of labels – are not always caused by the winegrower, but are caused by other people, in the laboratory or in label printing companies – can continue to be regulated without more bureaucracy through national regulation. It would otherwise punish the producer, i.e. the wine grower, and not the causer. After adapting to EU law, this would be an unsustainable condition for the Austrian wine industry. Since the 1985 wine scandal, the stricter wine law has really done excellent construction work. I have already pointed out that Austria has been able to restore its reputation for Europe and the world with its top crops and, above all, to regain its image in the white wine sector or to return to Austria with great international quality success. Last example: The "VieVinum" in Vienna was a huge success, as well as the journalists responsible for the wine in the foreign press strongly confirm when they say: This is Europe's most beautiful but also best and highest quality guaranteed event. This is important for Austria, because not only was the event decisive in the rooms of the Hofburg, but above all the content that was presented there. 1997 is a hearty year in Europe, which I think is highly dominated by the white wines of Austria. I would like to congratulate all Austrian winegrowers here once again! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Today's novelle to the Wine Law is also to be regarded as a further part of this desire. It ensures quality wine production, but also the protection of our wine market and the Austrian wine industry. I not only wanted to give a speech on this subject but also allowed me to make an ideal contribution. That is, I have completed a special Cuvée, year 1997, with the emblem of the Austrian EU Presidency. It is a special cuvée from Sauvignon and Chardonnay. I should like to thank Mr Molterer for his hard but fair attitude in wine legislation, to congratulate him on his success, because I believe he has a significant share, and to wish him all the best for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e18486	Mrs Klein is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e18526	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The representatives of the government parties have invited farmers to join the EU. The Austrian Wine Act introduces the EU wine regulation on criminal offences. So if you violate any of the EU provisions referred to in Z 1, you will be fined with up to 6 months of imprisonment or up to 360 days of fines. Why is the proposal for a reform of the European wine market system kept from small wine growers and dealt with as the best-kept secret of European market policy? Because wine, like no other product, can fuel the emotions in the European agricultural landscape? – I don’t think the mystery is about to come! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The Commission's 1994 reform proposal ended with a debacle. High house! Should not the small winegrowers be given the opportunity to bring in also Austrian interests, which differ from wine-growing to wine-growing area? Or is it now trying more than ever to take into account the concerns of the EU's southern wine-growing countries, which are invariably favour of the climate? The foreign wine share of wines sold in the supermarket rose to over 50 percent in Austria. You yourself, Minister of State, said in committee: The 220 milligram limit for calcium per litre of wine, which is considered a measure of the stability of the wine, is controversial among experts. – I ask you: Then how is the simple wine-wine to know? The provisions in the EU modify terms, for example, the term "dry". In the past 3 grams of sugar was allowed in one litre. Wine use the term "dry". However, the EU wine may contain 9 grams of sugar and taste sweet and carry the name "dry"! There are more and more regulations and bureaucratic obstacles, however, the profits of farmers, especially small farmers, are getting less and less. A wine maker may have six samples made at the test site, which are free of charge. However, for all further samples, the farmer must pay fully from his own pocket, and that is thousands of shillings of extra burden, although at this time he is not yet a litre We've sold wine. If he succeeds in selling, then he comes up with his ability, and it is questionable whether he remains in this bureaucracy for this. The operator of a box basket must pay three times 180 s for the registration of three ticketing dates at the beginning of the year, because § 9 of the Lower Austrian Buschenschank Act provides this. – Is that the policy you pursue? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Zweytick: This is a state law!]] I know! Ladies and gentlemen! For the above reasons, we liberals reject this renewal of the wine law and demand a new wine law, which is understandable to the farmer and "precious" to the consumer.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e18575	Mr Achs has also been mentioned on the floor. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e18597	Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Zweytick spoke to the Austrian white wine. Dear Hannes! The reds are also not to be despised, and above all very clumsy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today's novelle to the Wine Act contains necessary changes to ensure the good way of the local wine industry. In recent years, good developments have been made in this direction. For example, the trust of local consumers in Austrian wine has increased. The Austrians have recognized that the quality of domestic wines can withstand any international comparison. Of course, with 1 percent of the world market share, we represent only a modest size, but in terms of quality, Austria can easily measure itself with the leading wine-growing countries! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In order for this to remain the case, ladies and gentlemen, a solid structural reform will have to take place over the next few years, a reform which will, on the one hand, meet international developments and contain necessary harmonisation steps, but on the other hand it will also enable local winegrowers to play a pioneering role in Europe, yes, worldwide. A large number of reasons and factors have certainly been decisive for the good development of the past few years. In the first place, I would like to mention two things: the positive mood of departure and the joy of reform in much of the wine industry. In recent years, it has been clearly stated that local winegrowers are more focused on innovation and on the quality of products. This begins with the willingness to impose quantitative restrictions on production itself, to expand knowledge and skills in finishing, and reaches up to new professional marketing forms. These positive approaches clearly show that Austria is well on the road in the wine sector. As a Burgenländer I can say today that there are excellent wines not only in my federal state, but also in all wine-growing states – whether in Styria, Lower Austria or in Vienna. The reasons for this are, of course, a common commitment to the quality philosophy, and this common commitment makes me confident that the wine country of Austria has the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Today's amendment to the Wine Act provides for strict compliance with EU standards and for the extension of controls on the export of predicate wine. This ensures that Austrian wine continues to enjoy the fullest confidence in domestic and foreign countries. If I have never been able to make personal friends with the idea that such a high-quality product is exported in the tank, we must follow Community law and make the most of it at national level, because finally everything is done to ensure the quality of local wines. In this way, the new measures are not to be regarded as harassment, but rather as self-protection for the winegrowers and as a guarantee for consumers. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I have already pointed out that the wine country Austria has an excellent international reputation today. We have certainly not acquired this reputation by the fact that quality has only been preached in our country for years, but rather because quality improvement measures have actually taken place and been implemented in the wine sector. This also resulted in far-reaching structural efforts that could be mastered in the enterprises. We Socialists are not afraid to acknowledge these achievements honestly, and we will continue to try to ensure that the large number of small and medium-sized enterprises are not overwhelmed by agricultural industrial development, but also in the coming years have good opportunities in competition. Ladies and gentlemen! We have seen in recent years that this is possible and that a country like Austria, in particular, has the best conditions for successfully mastering wine challenges in the future!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e18681	The list of speakers is exhausted. That concludes the debate. There is no conclusion from the rapporteur. We are now entering the voting procedure, and I ask the honourable Members to take their place. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1341 of the supplements, taking into account the correction of the print error made by the rapporteur. In the event of your consent to this draft law, I would ask the ladies and gentlemen to give an appropriate sign of approval. – This is the majority. The request was accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who would like to give the draft law the same sign at third reading. – This too is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 28 on Seed Law 1997, handed over by Member MMag. Dr. Madeleine Petrovic (1339 of the supplements) 12. Point Report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on Amendment 676/A (E) by Mr Andreas Wablund Comrades on the non-use of genetic engineering as a minimum criterion for participation in the ÖPUL II (1340 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e18756	We now come to points 11 and 12 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are entering the debate. Mrs Aumayr is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e18787	Mr President. Minister! High house! On the petition No. 28 on seed marking: Federal Minister! They have said in the Committee that the cereal seed is completely marked. On my question as to how the vegetable seed is, you have said that you have to admit that there is a different regime from the cereal seed. Whereas genetically modified cereal seed, which has been authorised nationally, is only authorised throughout the EU if it has been included in the EU list of varieties, this does not apply to the vegetable seed. That is enough if there is a national authorisation. Federal Minister! We liberals believe that there is a gap to be concluded, and we therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e18837	The motion for a resolution which has just been read is properly tabled, duly supported and is therefore under negotiation. The next item is the speech by Mr Schwarzenberger. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e18861	Mr President. Federal Minister! My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to ask the President if the national Parliament can give a mandate to a minister to implement something in all European countries within the framework of the EU Presidency. I would ask Parliament to examine this. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would now like to address another issue on this agenda, namely the public health rules and the Greens' motion for a resolution. We have excellent participation in the ÖPUL programme in Austria, in the Austrian programme for environmentally sound, extensive and natural habitat-protection agriculture. Some 170 000 farmers participate in this environmental programme, including the commitment to continue this programme for five years. Around 1.45 million hectares of arable land, about one million hectares of green land and almost 40,000 hectares of wine-growing land are managed with this programme. In addition, around 80 per cent of the grass farmers, almost all fruit farmers, are involved, and some 9 000 pastures are included, which means that almost all alpine farmers also participate in this programme offered by Austria. We are therefore European champions in this area, and we therefore also receive 30 percent of all EU funds for the 15 countries. In fact, we should be proud that we have around half of the European organic farmers. More than 250 000 hectares of arable land or mowing area are organically managed in Austria, and more than 300 000 hectares of arable land or grassland are managed without the use of trade fertilizers, plant protection products and herbicides. In addition, almost 250 000 hectares of green land and arable land are partly managed without the use of commercial fertilizers and sprays. Instead of being proud of these environmental benefits, the Greens have made a request here to make all this more difficult! [[Abg. Wabl: We are proud anyway, but you have no reason to do so!]] They want all farmers who participate in it to have proof by means of such investigations that all the feed they buy is actually non-genotechnic cereals. In my opinion, this is not to be welcomed by farmers because of the high cost of research. We want to continue to allow farmers to deliver these environmental benefits without making it more difficult for them to do so through additional cost-effective research costs.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e18897	Mrs Petrovic has also been mentioned. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e18918	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schwarzenberger! Of course, we Greens are happy. I believe that the Green Movement, particularly with regard to the motivation, does not have a small part to play in the fact that there are more organic farms in Austria than elsewhere in Europe, that their numbers are growing and that many of them can also exist economically well. The proposal put forward by my colleague, Andreas Wablim, is, in our view, also to be understood in the sense of strengthening Austrian agriculture, because, if it is so, as the Federal Minister assured us, that there is de facto no use of genetically modified seed in Austria, then I believe that, in any case, it should also be announced as a marketing message in Europe, because people want non-genotechnic products in food, and if we can really do so in Austria, then we should not be given this competitive advantage because perhaps there are genetically modified salad varieties and salad varieties in Holland which are not to be allocated to our Austrian farmers. That means: If, at the same time, we can send a really 100% marketing message to the many millions of consumers in Austria, that it is really different and that we try to work with nature and not against it and to operate the market economy in the real sense, namely to produce what the population wants, then we should call it a progress. Of course, we are delighted with all the successes that have been achieved. But I think that we should take another step in this direction, because the path that has been taken so far was obviously right. They have expressed concern that control costs could grow. I also believe that there should be a public interest in the fact that the better product is also declared and can be declared as such. I therefore make a request for replacement of the inspection costs for non-genotechnic products. [[Quoted print version removed]] I think that the better products should actually be allocated to all consumers. It is not a question of providing these better products with cost disadvantages compared to those of consumers. It is therefore a public task to take care of these controls. The state controls in many areas, such as the water quality or the quality of the air. It would therefore be natural that the quality control of food, i.e. of what people consume directly, is considered a public task and is therefore paid to farmers. I put another motion for a resolution because I believe that this quality image "Made in Austria" should be clearly signaled to consumers in Europe. These include the freedom of genetic engineering, but also – as this area is also concerned with consumer protection – the limitation of the use of antibiotics. This application is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] You should really go along with this request! You know what uncertainty the various scandals about the prophylactic use of antibiotics in healthy animals the consumers have already triggered. It would be a contribution to the argumentation for products from Austria and for Austrian agriculture if you gave your consent to this request! I would like to make another request, which is also of secondary importance, namely an application concerning an EU-wide ban on animal testing for cosmetic products. Many of these raw materials also come from agricultural production, and it is absolutely necessary to test these proven, predominantly agricultural raw materials in animal testing. The application is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] These tests are also essential for the protection of consumers and should therefore be abolished as soon as possible. Allow me to speak on another motion for a resolution, which relates indirectly to agriculture, but which is tabled and assigned as a self-employed one. I am pleased that these too are part of the Liberal and Liberal Group, and we will endeavour to reach agreement with the government parties as well. An examination of the sensibility and compliance with Austrian animal welfare laws and animal welfare provisions is to be carried out. It is not our goal to make life difficult for farmers, but to create clear, continuous and easy-to-executive laws in order to ultimately achieve good products. One last thing: I am pleased that at least the petition No. 28 with regard to the obligation of identification, and I assume that the Minister of the Federal Government will do everything in his power so that what has already been achieved in the field of cereals will also be enforced for all other areas of the seed, namely, that it is clearly marked. For this petition is going in this direction, and the Committee has adopted it unanimously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e19052	The just-readed three motions for resolutions have been properly put in place, are supported accordingly and are therefore under negotiation. Mrs Horngacher has now been reported to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e19086	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The petition on seed dates back to 27. ==References== The concerns expressed by Mrs Rosl Beranek, who formulated them in the petition, are, in my view, very understandable. There are many concerns and wishes that many people share in our country: The demand for the labelling of genetically modified seed, for an appropriate authorisation procedure for land species to preserve plant genetic resources to promote biodiversity and for the promotion of mutual support for neighbourhoods, including small garden associations. We can now rightly say that almost all the demands are fulfilled. [[Abg. Wabl: But almost everyone!]] Seed must be marked. Currently the Seed Regulation applies. This ensures security. In addition, there is currently no genetically modified seed in Austria. . We are certainly an example in this area for other EU countries. I believe that the changes which have been made have been taken into account in the request for the petition and that the demand for mutual rural aid has also been taken into account with the machine and operational aid rings. There are no limits down either. Many initiatives have actually taken people's concerns seriously, and solutions have been developed and implemented. With regard to Mr Wabl's request for a ban on the use of genetic engineering as a minimum criterion for participation in Public Health II, I should like to say: The 1998 ÖPUL programme is a treaty between the Austrian Government and the farmers, which has already been largely concluded, and the unilateral amendment of a valid contract contradicts any principle of trust. [[Abg. Wabl: That's not true at all!]] However, it is far more serious that the farmer should stand for something that he himself cannot examine or guarantee. At present, the problem is hardly present because genetically modified products are not yet on the market. What happens, however, if a farmer has now committed himself for five years, but after four and a half years a sample is taken in his feed which does not correspond, although he cannot even know whether they contain genetically modified soya? So if he is caught by something that he cannot influence himself, then he must pay back the funding for five years! – That’s certainly not how you can do it, because that can really threaten his existence. That is why this problem has to be solved differently. In addition, I would like to say something: With regard to the demands of the Greens, we are somewhat suspicious. I can still remember the time when, for environmental reasons, the bottle was massively demanded as a packaging for milk, so massive that all the media pushed into the same horn. Our dairy plant has then installed a filling plant by a few million. Much advertising has been used to convert about 40 percent of milk production to the bottle. However, when advertising was exposed and this was no longer a public-wide issue, the first step was to go down to 15 percent, then to 10 percent, and finally the plant had to be shut down because of economics. – But all this has been carried out on the back of the farmers, all this the farmer has had to pay! It is therefore necessary to look closely at these demands. It is easy to say that these investigations must also be paid by the Ministry of Agriculture. I ask you: Of what money, please? The money should, in turn, be removed from other support for farmers. That is why we are somewhat suspicious, although I also have to say: The consumer wants non-genotechnic food, and we also want it, but I do not know whether it is possible to reach the goal in this way. If necessary, we need to think about other ways.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e19137	Mr Koller is now on the floor. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e19158	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The crasher of the coalition in the treatment of the genetic engineering people's desire in favour of the genetic engineering lobby has not only come to mind our freedom, but also all the signatorys of this popular desire. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The Wabl application is good from the theory, but not feasible in practice. It is the wrong approach to take the farmers into responsibility. We liberals don't support the business-loving Gen-Lobby. Minister! The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Ladies and gentlemen! That's not true. After an in-depth debate, the Minister had to admit that the national law of the producer country applies to imported vegetable seed, and that it cannot be guaranteed that it is free of genetic engineering. My colleague, Aumayr, has already mentioned this. The same is true of feed, as only maize and soya are subject to labelling. But what about the side effects? [[Abg. May. Steindl: Which fabrics?]] – These are not marked. The current situation is making farmers uncertain, because they do not know what is inside the by-products. But the liability lies with the producers, so with the farmers. Ladies and gentlemen! Minister Bartenstein wants to introduce a "genoc-free" pickerl. To this end, there are three questions: Firstly, competence. According to Minister Prammer in the GMO subcommittee, this is not the responsibility of Environment Minister Bartenstein, but of Minister of Economic Affairs Farnleitner. [[In the direction of Federal Minister Dr Bartenstein:]] What's your competence, Minister? Don't you have anything to say? Secondly, the costs. 12,000 S to 50 000 S is supposed to cost this pickerl. These are additional loads for the organic farmers. Thirdly, the verifiability. The traceability of the free production of the individual raw materials and ingredients of a food must be complete. [[Federal Minister Mag. ==References====External links== Smolle's talking to each other.]] Minister! I'm trying to follow my words. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The minister didn't listen! All the time!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Smolle! That would be the fourth party! You weren't at the ÖVP yet!]] [[Abg. Smolle: (returning to his place) Haigermoser! I'm not coming to you!]] Mr Smolle! You would also complain if I spoke to the Minister while you were at the speaker's desk. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That's the way it is. [[Abg. Leikam: The times have changed in there!]] Minister! I repeat my question. Thirdly, the verifiability. The traceability of the free production of the individual raw materials and ingredients of a food must be complete. – But that is not possible. Because even if a farmer completely abandons genetic engineering and leaves it out of play, it is impossible to exclude a hundred percent that genetically engineered seed or such feed has been used. Summary: There is no complete marking. Bio-farmers are also asked for the cash desk. The liability lies with the producer. Consumers and end consumers are deceived. We don't want to join the Freeman! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e19280	President. — The debate is closed. Molterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e19302	Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to make a few points. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Everything looks like it! Danger in default: Smolle wants to go to the ÖVP!]] First: The Federal Chancellery has announced a GMO. I have stated in the Committee that, after the joint legal status of Federal Chancellery and Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, this Regulation shall apply to labelling as long as no EU-wide Novel-Sead regulation exists. This genetic engineering marking regulation does not differ according to the type of seed, but applies regardless of the type of seed. Secondly, The Novel-Sead Regulation, as it will hopefully soon be available in the Union for decision, would replace this Austrian labelling scheme with a European one. The Novel-Sead Regulation also does not distinguish between the different types of seed. What I said in committee – and I would like to repeat it once again so that there is complete clarity – is that there are different rules on the marketing of seed for cereal seed and vegetable seed. Therefore, you can assume that the GMO applies to any seed, and you can assume that the Novel-Sead Regulation – if it becomes a reality in Europe – also applies independently of the type of seed. In my view, this motion for a resolution, Mrs Aumayr, is not necessary because the current legal situation covers your objectives.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e19350	Thank you very much, Minister of State. Mr Wabl has now been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e19375	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Smolle: Wabl! Can I talk to the Minister of State?]] My suffering was too great. The speeches by Mrs Horngacher and others have prompted me to say a few more words on this issue. Mrs. Colleague! [[Call the ÖVP: What he does for a face!]] Yeah, it's really like this: I'm sorry, Mrs. Horngacher! They tell the public in the Committee – with the support of the Minister – that all Austrian farmers and women farmers stick to it, and they do not even have the opportunity to use genetically modified organisms at all. But you do not want a treaty to define on both sides and to make it clear that Austrian agriculture does not use genetically modified organisms. You don't want to because you say: That's where the farmers have to pay again. Then we make a request and say: If the farmers have to pay, we shall make a motion for a resolution so that it is clear that the cost of control by the government is covered by the budget. – But you do not agree! Then you'll come over the milk bottles with the Lamento. Mrs Horngacher! You should have looked at the story of the milk bottle and the milk packs better. At that time, the masters of the dairy industry went to Scandinavia and looked around there to find out how to finally enforce the packs: with huge subsidies, so that all machines are converted. One glass factory after another was stamped into the ground until it was no longer possible to use the glass bottle efficiently and with a meaningful recycling on the market. And then you come and say, The Greens have incubated the farmers with the milk bottle, and the Greens are responsible for it! And you, Mrs Horngacher, together with Mr Schwarzenberger and the other hard-working farmers' officials, are responsible for the fact that the green line in Austria is at last the most beautiful, the best and the largest breeding animal in Europe, which we have in the stable. But if we demand today, here and now that you agree to the requirement that antibiotics are not used prophylactically in the hendlmast, then you are suddenly completely scared again: What's going on? Should we be against industry, against the feed industry? - No, we can't do that! Mrs. Horngacher! Please stop with this kind of policy of double-driving, double-dwelling and hypocrisy! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Smolle.]] It's unbearable! They know very well that prophylactic antibiotics are systematically used in the hendlmast. I know that then again the great lobbyists of mass animal husbandry will come and say that this is a distortion of competition. That is why we have tabled a request calling on the Federal Government to implement this objective at EU level. But not even to this soft request you are able! But at the same time it says: "We farmers' representatives are for the ecological line!" – Mrs. Horngacher! I can't do that. You will not be able to endure this in the long run unless you expect the uninformedness and the stupidity of the farmers. And I don't accept that from you in the long run. Mrs Horngacher and Mr Schwarzenberger! It is simply unbearable how you act in connection with public transport. I think this is a good program. They will be able to recall that the Greens were in the difficult phase of 1994 and 1995 in order to comply with the Treaties. But we are also in favour of the continued expansion of this huge competitive advantage across Europe if Austrian agriculture and if Austrian consumers are to ensure that genetically modified organisms are not used in food production. I'm not talking about medicine now. There are always these magnificent attacks against the "Fundis", which are not at all available in Austria. I'm not talking about medicine. I would also not talk about genetic engineering in agriculture if, for example, we were faced with a great famine. But that's not the way it is, the camps are full! The consumer houses are full of food and food. That's not our problem. Our problem is quite different. They defend here with teeth and claws a line that cannot be defended. 90 percent of the agricultural land used in Austria is ordered under the ÖPUL programme. That's wonderful, we can all be really proud of it. I do not know whether you can be more proud of it than the Greens; we do not want to be right now. But why open this gate? Why don't you try to close that gate? Mr. Schwarzböck! If you think that at this level genetically modified organisms may bring the great blessing, then you should remember what it would mean if there were indeed these miraculous products in the cereals sector or in the animal mast. What would be the result? – What has happened in the last centuries and millenniums. Through conventional breeding methods, huge numbers of species have been suppressed in production, in the most common, natural way of selection. The possibility of genetic technology would create an even stronger boost. There might then only be a variety of wheat and a variety of rice in this world. If you want this – I believe it will not be – then you are in the wrong society, Mr Schwarzböck! This is neither feasible nor possible, nor is it desirable here in Austria, and I do not think it is possible in Europe. Why Saying It is not clear and differentiated here: "In certain areas, genetic technology is useful and useful, but in the food sector it is strictly opposed!" Unknown term type: "%s".? We have the problem that organic farmers – those who are ecologically sustainable – are constantly stopped making controls, designing pickles and getting better in their marketing, while conventional farmers see no reason to change their strategy because they know that they have mass production behind them. Mr Schwarzböck! That's the problem. We have also experienced it again and again in egg production. We wanted a clear identification of the species of animal husbandry to be carried out. But who prevented that? The Greens? The Liberals? The liberals? The Social Democrats? - No, the ÖVP! The ÖVP has always been strictly opposed to the fact that the consumer can see how certain products are produced and under what conditions the animals have been kept. There have been dozens of meetings in the Ministry of Agriculture, in the presence of the Minister, with best and most competent experts. We have spent hours in the Committee, chaired by Mr Schwarzenberger, discussing how to make a fair, clear index and how to group the categories. Mr Schwarzenberger! We have never reached a conclusion because this is denied in the field of mass production. These people know exactly that the consumer would then choose and choose better products. I'll tell you: The problem we have in the whole agricultural sector is that there is still the opinion that the organic products are the more expensive. That's totally wrong! I pay the organic products to the farmer. But the products from mass animal farming and mass production I pay later in the hospital and in other areas in which much more money flows in and in which much more damage occurs. This also includes the entire area of water conservation. Then the top water guard comes back and says: We need these and those programs. In this way, the cheap mass product is actually paid! The Schweinsschnitzerl from mass animal farming is only cheap in the business. The vegetables from mass production are only cheap in the business. In fact, it is ultimately the more expensive. [[Abg. Arbitrators: And taste it even worse!]] The organic farmer produces much cheaper. We must finally find out from this case. Mr. Schieder! I know one thing with you on this question. Unfortunately, you are not agricultural speakers, otherwise we would have good laws on this issue. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e19450	No one is reporting on this. That concludes this debate. We also do not have the rapporteur's final word and therefore enter the voting procedure. I ask the honourable Members to take the seats. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we are voting on the request of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry to take note of its report 1339 of the supplements. If you want to do this, I would ask for a sign of it. – This is unanimously adopted. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution by Mr Aumayr and Mr Comrades on complete labelling of genetically modified seeds and plantations. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. Finally, we shall vote on the request of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry to take note of its report 1340 of the supplements. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Wabl and Mr Comrades on the replacement of control costs for non-genotechnic products. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the minority. The application is rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Wabl, Mr Smolle and Mr Comrades on an EU-wide ban on the use of antibiotics as performance-enhancing feed additives. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is only done by the minority. The request is therefore rejected. Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Dr. Petrovic, Motter, Dr. Salzl, Dr. Kostelka, Rauch-Kallat and comrades concerning an EU-wide ban on animal testing for cosmetic products. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This sign is done unanimously. Accepted. (E 130.) 13. Point Report of the Family Committee on the Government Template (1158 of Supplements): Federal Law on the establishment of a documentation and information centre for sect questions (Bundesstelle für Sectenfragen) (1287 der Berichten) 14. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on Amendment No 387/A (E) by Mr Ute Apfelbeck and Mr Comrades on the evaluation of the claims made by the five-party application of 14. July 1994 on measures relating to sects, pseudoreligious groups, associations and organisations and destructive cults (1288 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e19581	We now come to points 13 and 14 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are therefore entering the debate. Mr Klubobmann Mag is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Stadler. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e19608	Mr President. High house! Federal Minister! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter, standing at the ministerial bank, talks with Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein.]] If you may have the grace to end your conference. – You don’t need to be gracious at all. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Oh, I'm gracious to you!]] You only need to comply with the agreements of the President-in-Office, Mrs Colleague! That's enough. Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: Senior Teacher!]] No, that's not the superinstructor, that's just the custom here, Mr. Niederwieser. Teacher Niederweiser! That is what we made up at the Presidential Conference. [[Abg. Müller: At the Presidential Conference, a moderation in the choice of words has also been stimulated!]] Federal Minister! I'll take it straight ahead. We shall reject your government proposal, contrary to our vote in committee, because this law does not go far enough. We do not agree with the government proposal after a strict examination. What I would like to focus on is the already almost ridiculous announcement that the Committee has decided to adopt as a committee. This must be broken on the tongue, because it is a new quality of parliamentarism. The Committee statement is as follows: "The Family Committee notes: The Family Committee is assured by Mr. Dr. Martin Bartenstein that, within the framework of the activities of the Federal Office for Cretaceous Questions, risks within the meaning of § 4 of this Act should become known within the legally recognized churches and religious societies and their institutions, the executive ecclesial bodies of the legally recognized churches and religious societies and their institutions are informed of this." - Then the text goes on. Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Minister promises something, and the Family Committee notes in a committee statement that the Federal Minister has promised something. That's a new quality, that's something completely new. - Please? [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: Because you weren't there!]] They can make promises everywhere. If you made a promise with us, it would even become part of a liability agreement. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But that the Committee now has to make committee statements, ladies and gentlemen, just because the Minister, with his announcements, is not credible enough, that is a new quality of parliamentaryism. Ladies and gentlemen! There is something that the Federal Minister should have considered in his promise to the Committee. – I don't know, Minister of State: Are you yourself a lawyer? [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: No, chemist!]] You're not a lawyer, you're a chemist. All right, I'll take care of that. But you're going to have some lawyers with it. Federal Minister! If you or your officials have found themselves legally trained, have you or your officials noticed that what you promised here is strictly and seriously unconstitutional? – That is why I would like to say this today. Mr Khol! It is unconstitutional because, according to Article 15 of our basic law of 1867, the state has no supervisory right over the legally recognized religious communities. He has neither the right of supervision nor the right to control, nor the possibility of a foresight, ladies and gentlemen. Minister! You have no right to comply with what you have promised the Committee in the form of a committee. Read Article 15 of the Basic Law from 1867. – Unless you already want to overcome fundamental rights! That would be another question. I would like to know how to qualify your promise before the Committee. Please write to me, Mr Family Minister: Article 9 of the MRK – the MRK is called the Convention on Human Rights – states... [[Cheerfulness of the Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein.]] [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Schaffenrath.]] You didn't know? Read the MRK once! Or should I read it to you? It is quite clear that you do not have the right to carry out any control activities with legally recognized churches and religious communities. You are not entitled to this right at all. They have to respect the internal autonomy of the legally recognized churches and religious communities. This is still in the area of constitutional law, Mr Federal Minister, as you have certainly noticed. Or do you know the Constitutional provision of the Federal Law on the Legal Relations of the Protestant Church? – As Steirer you may be aware that the Protestant churches – Helvetic confession and Augsburg confession – have a special legal position. There is a constitutional provision in § 1 of this Law, in which expressly the prohibition is normized that any state power may exercise control there. And here you promise the Committee – and let this be decided by this Committee – that you will be doing control activities there in the future about any risks – which know You yourself are not quite exactly – and then will refund any messages about it! Side by side: According to the text of this Committee, reports are even sent to all churches. In other words, if the old Catholic church of our colleague, Arbitrator, were to show up, the Catholic Church, the evangelical Church and all the other churches – read the text, then you will have to be informed of it. Last point, Minister of State. You are, I believe, Catholic. You must be aware that you are also in violation of international law. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: Faith is something relative! You're wrong!]] No, that's not something relative, Mr. Federal Minister! [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: You're wrong anyway!]] Why am I wrong? [[Federal Minister Dr Bartenstein: Because I am not Catholic!]] You're not Catholic. Then what are you? Are you evangelical? [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: Yes!]] – Well, then you should know your own church law conditions! [[In the direction of the Abg. Dr. Khol:]] Then I will address the super Catholics of your club. For international law, namely the concordat between the Republic of Austria and the Holy See, expressly regulates Article 1(1) that the State does not have the right to intervene in the internal affairs of the Catholic Church – here still mentioned: the Holy Roman Catholic Church – to exercise supervisory rights and to exercise such powers. Federal Minister! You have promised something that according to constitutional law – according to three different provisions; and as a evangelical Christian you will know that this is even more normized in your church – which is unacceptable in terms of constitutional law and international law in force. I therefore warn you today to decide on this committee. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats welcomes the Commission's proposal for a European Parliament and Council directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to turnover taxes.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e19794	Mrs Moser-Starrach is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e19816	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! 50,000 people in Austria are considered to be the hard core of sects, and 200,000 people in Austria are sympathizers of sects. That's enough to install a sect site. We now have a focus in every federal state. However, a federal office should also be established for this purpose. Cults and destructive cults are growing more and more, talking especially to young people and burdening people. More and more Tarn organisations of sects and psychocults offer seminars and training events, especially seminars to improve the quality of life. It generates 10 billion schilling annually. Once again, from a social point of view, I also warn against the sect members of the second generation, i.e. those people who have grown up in these closed rules systems and know nothing else. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Mr. Feurstein! I'll send you something about the Opus Dei!]] ==References====External links==* Official website In June 1998 it was decided to set up a Federal Office for Circumstances. The body, as an independent body of public law, is mainly intended to provide information on sects and sect-like activities. The aim is to provide objective and objective information to the population on the risks that sects might pose. This Bundes-Sektenstelle will have its seat in Vienna. It should be both state and religiously independent. The law does not provide for the right of guidance of the family minister or any other member of the government. However, the Federal Office should act as a network node between existing information centres of the countries or recognized churches. In any event, the main task of the new institution is to document and inform about hazards arising from so-called sects and pseudoreligious groups. Those concerned should be able to find advice from the experts. The main tasks include cooperation and exchange of information with foreign bodies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e19851	Mrs Motter has also been mentioned. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e19873	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Stadler! I'm going to be consistent with your criticism. However, I would like to inform you that, apart from two exceptions to this committee, your Members in the Committee have also given their approval. [[Abg. May. Stadler: I already know! We have discussed this in detail.]] Yeah, but it's supposed to be held. I was very surprised. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Where is the problem? Where do you see the problem?]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Because there were no lawyers there!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Did you vote against it?]] Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the current excitement over sects and the violently debated question of their admissibility, one cannot resist the impression that the major religious communities are calling on the state for help. We Liberals recognize the social, educational and adult educational commitment of the churches as well as their contribution to the cultural development of a society. But can it really be the task of the state to define which concept of God is worthy of recognition and which is not? Ladies and gentlemen! This question must be asked in order to find an answer to the question concerning the sects. However, this has not yet been done. Also the recently published brochure of the Ministry of Family Affairs does not answer that question. This brochure rather conveys the self-righteousness of the majority religion of our country, which has led, among other things, to the fact that Buddhism has only been recognized for a short time. Ladies and gentlemen! Since 1996, around one third of the family advisory services in the federal states have been dealing with sect issues. At least I do not know whether results are available. Today's draft law is intended to establish a Federal Office for Cult Questions to collect material on sects and sect-like activities and to inform the public about the risks they pose. So far, so good – if you consider costs of 6 million schilling to be justified. What I do not want in my mind, however, is that the large churches were still included in the first government draft, but in the new version of the present federal law the Catholic Church is acquitted of any suspicion. For in § 1 it is now – I quote – that: "This law does not apply to legally recognized churches and religious communities and their institutions." - Quote. Why not?- Oh, my God! Can one really be exalted over every suspicion, even if there are controversial groups in their own ranks, in which self-reputable clerics constantly condemn gross inadmissibility? – So there is now no investigation into the Great Churches, no illuminating withdrawal of freedom, and so on. One cannot agree to such a law without coming into suspicion to measure by two measures. Another important point of rejection for us is the serious problem of data protection. Mr Bartenstein! Your statement in the Committee on the question of data protection is exaggerated and I do not want to understand it. You know how we know the opinion of the Data Protection Council and the fact that a general collection of information on sects is not constitutional, but rather could justify the accusation of state constituency. Also, the exceptions for recognized churches that are missing in this collection are not acceptable. In the view of the Data Protection Council, this is a non-justifiable disparity treatment. Minister! I don't know why you're just going about it. The Data Protection Council is also very surprised that there is no clear definition of what a sect is, and how the catalogue of suspected hazards has failed, about which the population is to be informed. For us Liberals also ask further questions: What happens to the data of persons when it turns out that they do not belong to a sect? Is the Federal Office’s assessment whether there is a reasonable suspicion of being a sect or developing sect-like activities in relation to a group? Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! You must admit that intensive monitoring in this way becomes a real data protection problem. This is also the view of the Data Protection Council, which also has to bear in mind that the Federal Office for Cult Questions will in the future grant police-like research powers, but that the employees working there will not even be subject to civil service law and thus not to the obligation of confidentiality. I would therefore like to say that for us Liberals this type of sect consultation is more than controversial both in terms of content and method. And at least in England, the idea of bringing sect victims to an advisory centre has already been recognized as pointless. According to this knowledge, a documentation centre for new religious associations was set up to provide the interested parties with objective information material and information on risks and risks without social pressure and without any advice. We could join this in liberals without a doubt. We could also imagine the integration of sect education into teacher and teacher training for the purpose of meaningful sect education and thus a sect education within the framework of the teaching principle. In the context of ethics, this task could be fully carried out in the future. Ladies and gentlemen! A democratic society should be characterised by the freedom of its citizens to express their interests and inclinations as freely as possible. The task of the State should be to ensure this and not to restrict citizens. We also reject the Committee's statement because, although the risk potential of the recognized churches was recognised in this statement, the recognized churches are excluded in the present federal law. And the question arises, Mr Federal Minister: What's going on now? How is it done? Are we going to adhere to the law or to the committee? In addition, the question arises of what to think of a committee which is tailored to the term of office of the Minister responsible, namely the current Minister Bartenstein. – We Liberals certainly cannot agree to such an alibi treatment!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e19952	Mrs Dr. Mertel is also speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e19974	Minister! Mr President. High house! The following central demands were crucial for the Social Democrats in the preliminary work on this federal law: The fundamental right to freedom of religion, faith and thought must be fully preserved, as must the fundamental right to respect for private life and, finally, the fundamental right to data protection. Based on these demands, we were able to give our consent to the establishment of this Federal Office after very intensive negotiations, because this also provides a legal framework for consulting on sect issues and can also be adequately controlled by the legislator. In addition, we have called for a summary report to be submitted to the Data Protection Council every six months on the cases of documentation and information which have been observed, in the light of all data protection relevant facts. Furthermore, the Data Protection Council is entitled to set up a working committee which can consult all the documents available at the Federal Office for Cult Questions. In addition, the Federal Minister has an annual report to the National Council on the activities of this Federal Office. Mr. Stadler! They put on different laws, which are supposed to be in breach of this Committee's position. To this end, I can tell you that it is not about the exercise of control rights by the Federal Minister, but the Minister of State only gives cases of which he is aware to the Church. Mrs. Motter! We of the Social Democracy, of course, agree that Abs. 2 of the first section also does not like too well. I should like to remind you that in this House we have been dealing with sects for a very long time. In 1993, a sect hearing was held with experts. In 1994 we discussed the development of children's rights in a separate subcommittee on sects. And in the context of a current hour on 1.12.1996, we discussed the dangers that may arise from groups that are characterized by their having the psychological dependence, the limitation of the personal freedom and the independence of the individual to create mental pressure, to take advantage of material distress and fears of existence, to produce change of identity and social exclusion and to exploit people economically. I am of course aware of how sensitive these questions are and with what sensitivity the State must address in dealing with its tasks in this regard. In this context, I would like to quote a legal opinion from professor of law Dr Heinz Mayer. It notes in its legal opinion that the state supervision of sects and their activities is a source of tension with several fundamental rights of Austrian constitutional law. It also draws attention to the need to avoid extensive interpretations in the implementation of such a law and to attach this office to established facts and, at least, to be neutral. University professor Dr. Berka, who has also prepared a legal opinion, also comments on these issues and points out that, from the point of view of the religious tolerance of the state as a whole, no sect-enemy climate is to be created. The State is responsible for neutrality. The consequence of this is that the state may not consider religions or beliefs – based on its authority – as right or wrong. Very well, says Berka, he may, however, show the effects of certain religious teachings or world views. – And that is the meaning of this law. I agree with this opinion and hope – no, I expect! – that the implementation of this contract is carried out with utmost care and sensitivity.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e20025	Mrs Petrovic has also been mentioned. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e20043	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs Mertel! The criteria you mentioned, that dependence can be generated, that people can be put in fear and terror, or can also be exploited, because they are deprived of regular service or work conditions and thus brought into a religiously motivated, also economic dependence, encounter some so-called sects or destructive cults. However, there are such manifestations, unfortunately, also within the framework of the recognized churches and religious communities. In view of this, the question arises for me: Why is it that a committee is being set up in a new law? Why don't you just write this into the law? For I mean that there are many people affected also in connection with the growing fundamentalisms in many religions and with apparitions in the field of Christian churches, such as the angelic work and others. I therefore believe that it is not a matter of treating the same thing differently in a new law which is supposed to have a protective character. I would also like to ask the basic question whether the path we are taking is at all the right way. Because there are also other possible forms of organization that can become very dangerous. And I would also like to refer to a statement from the Secretariat of the Austrian Bishops' Conference, which was printed in the June 1997 Vienna newspaper, which also expressed the fear that a kind of state church could arise, which paradoxically excludes the established churches. We absolutely agree when you warn and help those affected. With some appearances, I would sometimes wish myself even clearer words. I am thinking, for example, of the victims of groups like Scientology, which have often been with all of us. In this respect, I am still not really taking any real measures, because there are still kindergartens and schools that are operated by significant contributors of these groups. I was never a follower of any sanctions or steps against individual members of such a group, because such measures would certainly be the opposite. But I have the impression that some who are at risk of becoming involved do not know what they are getting involved with, or what is even worse, what they are doing with it if they allow their child to comply with it. There are, for example, sects sailing under the cover of relief institutions, and in so far as I believe that this law cannot really help. In addition, I wonder to what extent the established institutions actually deal with this problem and whether better cooperation would have been possible both in the area of the interior and in the area of private associations. With regard to data protection, I fully support the concerns expressed by Mrs Motter. In the light of this, I assume that we will have to renovate this law in the not too distant future. Federal Minister! I would like to draw attention to a particularly dangerous trend: Through the different treatment of the same phenomena in itself, even the recognized churches and religious communities with their established, proven and unproblemative activities may be put at risk. Because to the extent that no responsibilities are given for this established area, you almost invite sects, destructive cults and such structures to take refuge under the cover of the established churches and to act under a certain cover. That means: I dare to doubt whether the current regulations really achieve the goal that we all, as I believe, want. Therefore, we cannot give the law our consent.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e20095	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e20113	Thank you, Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the House! If, as I hope, you will soon give your assent to this government template, you will do no more and no less than approve a structure that could have been created in itself in the form of a department of my house. The present solution, however, has the advantage that this body is free of any direction – and I do not have any instructions! – it is independent and accessible to every citizen of Austria, without it having to take the detour through the ministerial bureaucracy and hierarchy. This is the idea behind the creation of this Federal Office for Cult Information and Documentation. It's not about any more, but it's also about no less. I believe that we are taking a further step in dealing with and dealing with what I describe as beings in the field of sects. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] I expressly say that on one point I fully agree with Mrs Mertel: Freedom of religion and faith are high goods. Similarly, sects are not necessarily reverential to the state. However, if sects – and our experiences show this over and over again – take risks to citizens of this country to an above-average level, then one should help. We know that there are many relatively harmless groups in the field of sects, which are truly religious. We know, however, that on the other hand, Mrs Petrovic mentioned this, there are also groups such as Scientology, which have little to nothing religious in themselves, but obviously only economic and political interests serve them respectfully. That is why it is happening, and now we are given an instrument with which we can do more than before. Mr Stadler! I've already wondered what's going on with the liberal parliamentary club. For the sect expert in your parliamentary club, Mrs Applebeck, is not on the list of speakers and is not even present. Mr Stadler! With all the appreciation of your competence, I would like to say: As far as sects are concerned, I have never heard you, and even in the Committee on Family Affairs, you have never been present, let alone at the sect poll. Here, however, you have taken the floor. [[Abg. May. Stadler: What does that have to do with fundamental rights?]] This gives a significant light to the fact that, as Clubman's representative, you are obviously turning your group's vote on the Committee on Family Affairs. For there your group has given its approval to the draft law and also to the relevant committee, and now you are canceling... [[Abg. May. Stadler: Leave this to us!]] This is, in any case, unusual, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to say that once. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I've been out of your way to you for a direct interview. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] No, I'm not a lawyer, I'm a chemist! Sometimes it doesn't hurt anything. [[Further call of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] No, I'm not a Catholic, but – I'm telling you now – a Protestant. And this also sometimes hurts nothing, because I am probably a little over the suspicion of wanting to render special services to the Catholic Church. But, Mr Stadler, I can read very well and understand a little bit. That is why I can tell you that this committee statement does not say anything but that I am being given information and that in the case of the environmental and family sector and/or the Cult Centre provide assistance. This is not prudent, it has nothing to do with control, and it is by no means an intervention in rights in accordance with the nature. 15 basic state law or the like. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] What you criticize is also criticized by the other side, i.e. by the Liberals and the Greens. That's why I'm saying: Located 180 degrees diametrically in the middle is sometimes not so wrong. It is true that our first draft law, which has been examined, also contained control of intra-Church groups. However, because of the criticism in the review, we have seen ourselves prompted to delete this section again. And now I'm telling you something very political-pragmatic: This is my relatively slight concern, because the thousands of requests that my staff had to deal with in recent months had nothing to do with internal church groups or only very much on the verge. This means that this problem is obviously a relatively small one. However, I say that I have also discussed this issue with Cardinal Schönborn, among other things, and that I have been assured by the Cardinal that it is very likely that there will be an eye on what groups such as the Opus Angelorum do or do not do. I have this assurance, and I can rely on it. One last of the issues of the Data Protection Council and the issue of data protection aspects. Mrs Motter! I can only point to this and say the same thing that has already been said by Mrs Mertel: There is a half-yearly reporting obligation to me, there is an annual reporting obligation from me to the National Council, and there is, to some extent, a right of access by the Data Protection Council or its Working Committee to the Federal Office. – I think we have a relatively good grip on this. In any event, we will do what is sound in our knowledge and conscience and ensure that the data protection situation is interpreted in such a way as we think it is proper to do. And in the end we will also rely on the opinions of Professors Mayer and Berka – both of them have already been quoted. This is necessarily a delicate question. But I think we have answered them in a satisfactory way. I would like to thank the House in advance for its approval of this law, because it will be an important instrument for protecting Austrian citizens from the negative effects of sects in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e20193	The next speaker is Mr Ellmauer. The speaking time is set at 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e20214	Mr President. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Jean Jacques Rousseau wrote in 1762 that it is the real task of education to lead to a good culture of sincerity and self - agreement. However, this agreement should only be achieved through long-term processes of education. Employment with our children and young people is increasingly being pushed into the background today. Video and television partially replace family relations already in early years. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Have you confused your speeches?]] The parents have less time or less energy for their children. As a result of these grant deficits, the psychologists say that the children's claims for consumer goods are growing. The only question is whether consumption fills this gap. The consequence of this phenomenon is often that the adult opposes or opposes existing standards. In reality, however, a large number of young people are looking for identity or seeking meaning. And from this point on, too, the danger of young people seeking the meaning of life in sects or sect-like activities is growing. They mean that there "end-end, finally to be used, finally home, finally health, finally comprehensive knowledge, finally to find security". – Under these keywords, the Federal Ministry of Family has summarized in the brochure "Secrets – Knowledge Protects" what young people are looking for or what they expect in sect groups. In view of this, not only are those entitled to education, but of course the State is also required to help with information and advice in the field of educational work. The establishment of a documentation and information centre on sect issues is therefore a necessary step. The draft law is not based on the general undifferentiated documentation of the activities of so-called sects, but on a catalogue of possible dangers. First and foremost, this is the risk of the life and health of persons or the free development of human personality, the integrity of family life, the property or the independence of people and the free mental and physical development of children and young people. The Federal Office for Cult Questions therefore provides important assistance to families facing this problem. In most cases, there is not only a lack of general information, but also a lack of help and advice on how to deal with those affected and how to free them from the power of a sect. In this respect, the possibility of consulting in the Federal Office is also to be welcomed. Mr. Federal Minister! I would like to thank you for this paper, which we will gladly agree with by the ÖVP.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e20250	The next speaker was Mr Graf. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e20268	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! Mr Bartenstein! I am really disappointed with your blue-eyeness or with your - I would like to call it so - tolpatschige's political behaviour on this issue, which they show if you do not value the character which it actually has here and today. I have, by the way, not voted for this Committee statement in the Committee, as you know, for many reasons, also because it does not even contain a single German sentence and what is in it has been suggested by the EIA for this purpose. – Also disappointed, but your party is "only" the Minister of Education. You will not seriously believe that in the future you will only act as a letter medium or as a letterbox! But there you know the united left and the church people's desires badly and have not dealt with the subject! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] When it comes to the institution of church or recognized religious communities, you will be thrown with complaints, and you will not only be at the top of established mailboxes! You may not have looked through the dimension yet. If you were just a letter box or a letter carrier, you would have been able to hang this letter box at the archdiocese or to settle in the official area as well. But they have called themselves to play the letter carrier in the highest personal way. And that's exactly what's going to fall on your head! You will certainly remember my warning words. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein.]] Apart from the other very real concerns, I would like to say that the slightest impression of unconstitutionality is already to be avoided, and this is undoubtedly the case with this committee. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You'll see that you're going to get into an inconsistency position. On the one hand, it is now legally normized how this place is set up and how it has to work. On the other hand, there is no such possibility with regard to recognized religious communities and churches, but there is a grey area there. But there will be a letter box established by the Minister or will he himself act as a letter medium, but he will also be active, who will provide assistance and so on. – This is the position of the Committee. For the recognized churches there is a grey area, which, as I mean, is similar to that in the documentation archive of the Austrian resistance, where there is also a grey area in which in truth data material is collected et cetera. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: You don't like that!]] The question of whether you do not make yourself a Dr. Neugebauer in this point in relation to the recognized churches and religious communities in the transferred sense is still open; this is still to be answered. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] I mean, with this committee statement, you are not just the top-ranking postman and letterbox, but the "Oberschmuftler" in recognized religious matters! And this is unjust and is rejected.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e20346	Mrs Tegischer is speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e20367	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to return to the Committee's point of view, although it has already been discussed quite thoroughly. It really is only a question of getting to know church and religious communities about dangers. From my point of view, the offer of assistance is particularly important. We would also have preferred it to be laid down in the law. But that was a common compromise for us. In addition, I would like to say that the law also provides for cooperation between all bodies involved in the consultation of those at risk and that the Federal Office is entitled to cooperate with these bodies. I would have preferred the term to be "mandatory". Now to the term "sects": We have discussed this in detail in the Committee. "Sect" is actually more to be described as a concept of struggle for groups that we do not want in our society. Most people associate with the term "sect" with certain names such as "scientology", "witnesses of Jehovah", and so on. I therefore believe it is important to focus on the characteristics of such groups. It must be noted that all these groups have a common approach to meeting specific needs, particularly young people in a development phase. It is about needs that seem to be incomplete or not at all covered in our society. This includes the feeling of being assumed, the feeling that one is taken from one’s fear, the I-strengthening and, above all, the possibility of reaching high or highest elitist levels. In my opinion, we must pay particular attention to three areas, and I will look at them in detail in the report to Parliament. It is not just information that should be in the foreground. The already injured and at risk must receive targeted advice and care, and in order for this to lead to success, the exit must be able to take place as well as the entry into service. I am particularly concerned about prevention, in the way that in addition to information, there are also targeted projects aimed at promoting young people in their personality, criticalness and learning problem-solving strategies. Then sects, psychocults and healing groups become unattractive for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e20408	Next speaker is Mrs Gatterer. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e20429	Mr President. Federal Minister! The search for happiness and the meaning of life has always occupied people. At a time when money, speed, technization and shareholder value determines everyday life, sects and psychocults predominate to be able to respond to new challenges and old longings. Especially people who feel unable to keep pace with this development – the turn of the millennium certainly also plays a role in this – and people in crisis situations and young people are first addressed by sects and then taken part. The offer, as the Cultenquete showed, is also very large in Austria. Some 500 such groups exist, and according to a fessel study, 77 percent of the Austrians were already addressed by sects. 50 000 Austrians say they are members of a sect, and the environment of these organizations is about 200 000 people. Many are not even aware that they are in the organization of a sect or a psychocult, because these organizations are very often teased. Under the cover of health awareness or a personality development course, an attempt is often made to address new members. Neither popular universities nor municipalities, not even universities, are in favour of groups using their premises to gain new members. These groupings then benefit from the serious names of these public institutions and can thus reflect safety. We have seen that borders flow and activities are diverse. In order to have information and contact persons in this area, the Federal Office for Cult Questions is so important so that one can ask whether it is a group that is worrying and what it looks like with experience with this group. I would like to thank the Federal Minister very much for taking the first step with the brochure "Secrets – Knowledge Protects". This has already been adopted 280 000 times; not only asked, but also accepted. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: What does the MRK say about this?]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's just an information!]] There are really bad faces of sects. We know this from the AUM sect or from the mass murders of the sun tempers. But the everyday face of the sects always means: Decoupling from the family, exploitation, dependence. In totalitarian sects, people often have no decision-making options, but are in command and obedience relationship and are monitored. The way back is barricaded and the bridges are broken down. I believe that for this reason, it is urgently necessary that there be a federal office that collects knowledge that draws attention. Robert Musil said: "We no longer have an inner voice, the mind tyrannizes our lives." – Cects and psychocults cannot make this inner voice sound and cannot replace it at all.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e20480	The next speaker is Dr. Niederwieser. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e20502	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) One thing has to be left to Mr Stadler. First of all, although he did not deal with this matter in committee, he was still very deep – down to the concordat – and second, he is – unlike his clubman – actually there when it is discussed. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Where is he? - Ah, he's up there!]] This keeps his clubman quite different. We don't see it very rarely here. Mr Stadler! You are mistaken if you criticize the committee statement. If the Federal Minister or if this advisory body receives information which also relates to the ecclesial field and to organizations in the ecclesial field, the Minister of State will, in the sense of this Committee, inform the appropriate church of these operations. [[Abg. May. Stadler: He doesn't need a committee statement for that!]] That's not the way it is with you. If you or your club receive a letter from Prochema, give it to Mr. Rosenstingl and say: "But now do it!" – That is, of course, an order in the sense of how you view it. [[Abg. May. Stadler: I do not need a committee statement for that!]] The information given by the Federal Minister is an information and not an order to the Church. In this respect, this cannot be unconstitutional at all. You also have this – what does that mean? – Liability contract. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Fragment contract!]] Fraud, liability – is indifferent. Of course, it is relatively easy to enter into such liability contracts. We do not know to this day what the position of the Freedom Party is actually about this law. There were two speakers out here. Both referred only to the Committee's position, but not to any single word on the law itself. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Isn't that enough?]] We do not just vote on the Committee's position, but we vote in favour of a federal law. But you have not lost a word about why you reject this law. You have only raised clear, false constitutional concerns about the committee statement that you have deliberately misinterpreted. I'm excited to see if you'll agree to the law. [[Abg. May. Stadler: I said that! At the beginning of the speech!]] You can read it yourself. If you no longer know what you have spoken, read it yourself! [[Abg. May. Stadler: At the beginning of the speech I said that!]] You have said no word to the law except at the beginning that you will reject it. [[Abg. May. Stadler: There's a "not enough" now, Mr. Teacher! I said that at the beginning!]] The Liberal and Green colleagues have expressed themselves very strongly against this paragraph 2 in § 1. The previous speakers of my group have already given an opinion on this. But I mean, it's superior if you say, We do not want anything to happen at all, we do not want any advice at all – just because this advisory body cannot include activities in the church. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: Gell, Erwin, now you find the argument difficult! Now it's gonna be hard to talk you out!]] I think that this consultative body has such an important function that it can be satisfied with what it has to do with it, since a solution has been found for the other area. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: This is such a bizarre argument!]] This advisory body will have to provide serious, effective and comprehensive information. It will, if necessary, provide assistance to those concerned and relatives who are in danger of losing not only property and property but also their personal freedom. This is a very important task, and we are therefore glad that this body is set up.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e20672	Mr Dr. Höchtl came to speak.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e20693	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If almost nine out of ten Austrians say that they consider sects, pseudoreligious communities or destructive cults to be dangerous or very dangerous, I believe it is an obligation for policy to accept these fears and to create the appropriate instruments to provide timely information and information. That is why we have been working on this issue for a number of years. 88 percent of Austrians consider such groups to be dangerous or very dangerous. Recently, a few weeks ago, we held our own survey. There national and international experts reported to us, and it was said that only the psychomarket in Germany reached an annual level of around 130 billion schillings. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It's not about implementing any forced measures. But we want to have a place that documents these dangers, and we want a federal office that informs. But we do not only want to have this federal office – by the way, the Freedom Party has not at all been objected to the law itself, as must be held, and that is, I invite you to agree – but we also need to take further steps. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Wrong!]] We must take steps to ensure that consumers are protected against the various offers on the psychomarket. This is a market of around 10 billion Schilling in Austria alone. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I think that all those who are concerned about informing about the dangers and helping the people concerned must be encouraged to accept this law. We'll do it.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e20729	The next speaker was Mr Riepl.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e20750	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! There has already been a great deal in this debate about the need for this Federal Office and the arguments for it. Undisputed, I think, is what can be said in summary, that there can be and assume risks from sects and sect-like groups. In my opinion, therefore, the Federal Office for Cult Questions is an important tool to counter these dangers. In many cases sects are characterized by authoritarian structures, which is why information is also important. In turn, education needs well-founded basics. As we know, this is not a national problem, it must also be seen across borders. The subject of sects is therefore also to be seen internationally. It is therefore important that the Government's proposal explicitly includes cooperation and exchange of information with national and foreign bodies in the field of tasks. The European Parliament has already discussed this issue in 1996, as well as in a resolution, and there are clear international targets for this. Ladies and gentlemen! I think that our society needs religious tolerance, but it is not boundless, it must not be boundless. Where, under the pretext of religious activity, people are alienated from their families, the triggering takes place from the social and professional environment and the financial ruin threatens individuals, there these borders are exceeded. It is therefore necessary to do something about it. In any case, on behalf of the Socialist Group, I would like the newly created documentation archive for sect questions – I would like to stress: Documentation archive for sect questions – that is, this new Federal Office, a lot of success! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's it! I'm right!]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e20791	The next speaker is Mr Amon. I'll give him the word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e20812	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, when we debate the Federal Law, which forms the basis for the newly established Federal Office for Cult Information, this is in reality the consistent continuation of a struggle against sects and pseudoreligious groups, which pose a threat to young people, but also to society in general. In the sense of the National Council, our Federal Minister, Dr. Bartenstein, took up this struggle very offensively because of a resolution of the National Council, not only with the sect brochure. We have also followed this on a parliamentary level, for example within the framework of an survey, but also with the Federal Law on Religious Confessions. It is necessary to set up this Federal Office because the previous information offices are obviously not sufficient. They are not enough because on the one hand there are corresponding church places and on the other side there are family counseling offices, but they are not necessarily connected with each other. If we are talking about the fact that there are between 500 and 600 such groups in Austria, it is almost impossible for a single body which is not connected to have all the information available throughout the federal territory. In fact, it is not about peak services, but primarily about the collection of information. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would also like to make two comments. Mrs. Mother! They have said that the officials working in this Federal Office are not subject to silence. Obviously you have not read the draft, for in § 11 expressly the silence of the persons working there, also beyond the service relationship. I find the behaviour of the liberals to be particularly peculiar – and I would like to express this specifically – to be in favour of the Committee and to speak against it. I remember very well the debate a year ago, when all the measures were far too far-reaching to you and we did far too little in your eyes. Now suddenly, you seem to be too high a pace. You no longer come along, and because you no longer come along, it is the only way for you to vote against it.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e20856	No one is reporting on this. That is why this debate is closed. We shall proceed to the votes taken separately between the Committee's proposals. First, we shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1158 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This was adopted by a majority at second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I should like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who also give their approval at third reading show this by a sign. – The proposal was also adopted by a majority in third reading. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report in 1288. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of this announcement to give a sign. . The request for information has been decided by a majority. 15. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 643/A (E) by Mr Edith Halle Rund Comrades on the valorization of family aid (1289 of the supplements) 16. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 644/A (E) by Mr Edith Halle Rund Comrades on child care check (1290 of the supplements) 17. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 658/A (E) by Mr Edith Halle Rund Comrades on the increase in the mother-child-pass bonus (1291 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e20951	We now proceed to points 15 to 17 of the agenda. There is no need for oral reporting. We're going into the consultations. The first mention is made by Mrs Haller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e20994	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Where were you?]] Three liberal applications are now under discussion. The first, 644/A (E), concerns... [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: I missed you!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Where was your group?]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: It was there!]] Usually I'm always there, now I wasn't there. It is very nice to see you, Mrs Mertel. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Of course! I always keep your eye on you!]] The babysitting check is an old concern of our liberals. With this request, we call on the Federal Minister to take appropriate measures to implement a first stage of the childcare check. Mr. Family Minister! I would almost have been delighted at the last meeting of the Family Committee, because I have received so many positive reactions from you, your colleagues and colleagues to all three requests for freedom. But this joy has been a bit saddened by the fact that you argue positively, but then, of course, you vote in favour of freedom of speech. That's reality. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: That is what you say after I have dealt very attentively with the request for freedom of movement?- Oh, my God!]] Yes, Mr. Federal Minister, I'm saying that. That's exactly why I'm saying that. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Now you know what the vote is like!]] I asked you in committee what the first results of the feasibility study on childcare check look like. You have said these results are available to you, and literally: "If you want the check, it's feasible. It is eligible for funding from FLAF, but then in a basic function." – That is what we have always claimed, and now we have the confirmation. But the request for freedom is rejected! I haven't dared to trust my eyes recently when I opened "Communal" – the official organ of the Austrian Congregation – on page 51 of the number 6 of 1998. "Oberösterreich" reads: Childcare check from the cradle to the school. Mr. Landeshauptmann Pühringer and Mr. Landesrat Hiesl – also part of the ÖVP – therefore call for the rapid introduction of the so-called childcare check. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: This is our liberal demand!]] I'll tell you: I know this division very well; Maybe not so much for you. For three years ago, we liberals brought this folder out, Minister of State! [[The speaker keeps a folded brochure up to date.]] It says: "From the cradle to the school entrance – the childcare check." So it is not only that the EIA in the countries demands this check, but it even uses our diction and our argumentation – not to say: She's writing down what we're demanding. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! So that you can believe it, I'll give you these two copies. [[The speaker presented the brochure to Federal Minister Bartenstein.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Give him a license for the fee!]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: I would demand copyright!]] Federal Minister! This is really not quite understandable. We have now called for a first step towards implementation, and you have also confirmed to me in the Committee that the first step, as we imagine it, would be eligible for funding for all mothers as a family policy. 90 percent of mothers are currently receiving karenz money, only 10 percent do not get it. They already plan a total of 10 percent valorization, and this seems to be eligible for funding. So, of course, this first step from FLAF could also be financed, Mr Federal Minister! It would be very nice if I could say to you: Mr Federal Minister, let us take this project together, let us take a first step, let us try it together! But I have the feeling, Mr Federal Minister, that you are constantly using the liberals, especially in family policy, as a means of pressure against your coalition partner. In fact, I have the suspicion that this could also be done in the area of child care checks. If not... [[Federal Minister Dr Bartenstein: Mrs Colleague! Let's do it! But then you vote against it in plenary!]] A little confidence must already be there. It's here with me, Minister of State! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: At the childcare check she remains faithful to you!]] The two other liberal applications also have their rights. You know that we want a valorization of the family allowance at the level of the adjustment factor of pensions. That would be useful, financial and feasible, all that would be. But you don't want it. Well, we have to take note of this. Federal Minister! They also defend the abolition of birth aid. You argued in the committee with your party colleague, Moser, about how much percentage of the mother-child passport examinations actually went down. The fact is that they have fallen seriously. That is what we have feared, and that is what the family council has feared. But you do not agree with this request by the liberals, based on a unanimous request from the Family Policy Advisory Council. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Surprising!]] Federal Minister! The follow-up costs from the lack of examination in the mother-child passport will come. You'll come, but then you may not be ministers anymore. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Well! At the fluctuation!]] Maybe that's why it's not so important to you. It's important to us. Of course, we will continue to pursue our intentions, Mr Federal Minister, consistently and persistently, just as I am always. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: You have to do that now because of the contract!]] We will then see whether the EIA will become a common line in the countries and the federal government.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e21260	The next speaker is Mrs Horngacher. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e21281	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs Haller's request for valorization of the family allowance does not in any way address the recently decided family package. The 12.6 billion schilling, which are also applied for the families, takes us a big step further in family politics. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Goods foreordained!]] That's what you have to admit. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Anyway, we're glad about this package. It was a long way to go, but it has finally been implemented. At the moment, however, the family compensation fund has no surpluses. They're to be expected, but we can't distribute what we don't have yet. To the child care check, I would like to say what I have said several times: A feasibility study is currently under way, which will be presented by the Federal Minister. For me, the question of childcare is a very essential one. I will certainly be very committed to this measure in due course, because I think it is right and because it brings more social justice, equal opportunities and freedom of choice. In my view, however, the childcare check should be more. A pension model should be installed in which the mother who cares for her children at home can pay her pension contribution from part of this money so that we can close this gap. It is also about the fact that the work of women working at home is finally recognized as equivalent work and that this would mean that every woman would have a pension claim. In the future, it must go in that direction. In addition, I am still convinced that children from birth to kindergarten are in any case best taken up by their own mother. That's one for the Live very important section in which all children need security and warmth. That is why I have a lot of sympathy for this babysitting check, but I know that it is still too early for this to happen. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The left will never accept this!]] I am convinced that those who still believe that women's policy is at risk will once again be reversed. I hope that, in the foreseeable future, when the feasibility study is available, this model can be discussed by all of us, perhaps in the foreseeable future. Mrs Haller! The Minister has said in the Committee that it will certainly take a few years to finance it. Apparently, as the opposition party, you are least concerned about financing. But perhaps we can also celebrate the introduction of this system, just as we celebrated the family package, together! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I hope that in a few years we will be so ready. Previously, the care check will hardly be eligible for funding.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e21357	Next speaker: Mrs Hannelore Buder. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e21382	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Amendments Nos 643/A (E), 644/A (E) and 658/A (E) tabled by Mrs Haller were not approved by the Committee. Request 643/A (E), which concerns the valorisation of the family aid, in which annual adjustments are referred to, really does not include the savings measures of the government parties, as you put it in your application. Mrs Haller! However, they do not know that from 1999 onwards there will be more for each child by 250 S per month and from 2000 onwards by 500 S each year. They also deny that from 1999 onwards, from the third child, the allowance for children under income will be 200 S per month and 400 S per month from 2000 onwards. And you also, of course, are not saying that the increase in the negative tax is currently being raised from 2 000 S per year to 5 000 S. This leads me to request 644/A (E): There will again be 1.2 billion schilling to expand the childcare facilities in Austria, and these funds will be used for needs-oriented and sustainable childcare projects such as farm kindergartens, hoards, children's homes, where the children can be accommodated from the crab room to school-care. And of course there should also be comprehensive offers to day mothers. A babysitting check would mean to many women: Away from the workplace and back to the stove, away from the partnership in work and family. We also know that very many individual children are taught social behaviour in kindergarten. Because there they learn to make contacts with the same ages, to carry out conflicts and problems without dealing with the mother in the background. In addition, it is not mentioned that the funding of the childcare check would be covered by other family benefits, which are of course for women today, such as karenz money, karenz money grant, part-time aid, operating aid, re-entry aid, special emergency aid, training aid. [[Abg. Haller: Shut up! You have no idea!]] But the worst thing would be: Check holders would not be socially insured. It must bear the costs of pension and health insurance itself. Then what remained of the check? Women would refrain from working and self-employed! That would be a check – like some of your party – that remained uncovered! This pocket money would only mean an insurmountable disadvantage for women. For the young women's vision of the future is that they can reconcile work and family. What else would we give our girls a good school education for today? Ladies and gentlemen! That is why I address the request made to the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs if there are excesses in the FLAF to those women in whom the father of the child can no longer be shown to be required after birth to give the possibility to consume even the half-year of care for the father. In such cases, the woman should actually have the opportunity to use two years of leave. At some point – I hope, even before 2000 – single parents who need financial support would urgently need an increase in the amount of the compensation allowance. Federal Minister! They have announced this measure for the year 2000. I hope that this will actually be met! Of course, well - deserved parents also come into the enjoyment of increased family promotions. It would have been better if this amount, at least a billion schillings, were to be granted to the more socially weak! A short time ago on application 658/A (E) concerning the increase in the mother-child-pass bonus: Since the beginning of this year there are only more 2000 S. It is, of course, unfortunate that a decrease in mother-child passport examinations is taking place. We hope that the Recall system will urge mothers to be responsible to society and to their child. Financial incentives should not be the only reason for the use of the mother-child passport examinations, which are still free of charge. The joy of having a healthy child or taking care of his health should be opposed to all promotions! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e21419	Mrs Klara Motterist. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e21441	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address the three motions for resolutions to be dealt with in the near future. First – Valorisation of family aid: In principle, we Liberals are also seeking to valorise aid. In this case, however, where there is no need to do so but still predominates the principle of foundry, a valorization must be rejected from our point of view. We are also opposed to the second request concerning child care check. The idea that there should be a certain amount available for each child, which can be redeemed either at a childcare centre or at a mother's mother's home, or can be reserved by the caregiver's parent, cannot be recovered. This would mean that mothers would take even more away from self-employed employment and that would not allow further social security to be completely silent from independent life-forming and self-determination! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum and SPÖ.]] On the third request concerning the increase in the mother-child-pass bonus, I would like to say that I regret that there is a need for financial incentives at all in order to carry out these investigations. It should be in the interests of every mother and father to have a healthy child! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum and SPÖ.]] However, due to the not very high frequency of investigation due to the removal of the birth grant, we agree with the new 2 000 S bonus. We welcome the fact that, for the first time in this matter, the principle of foundry has been taken away and that the state aid is now no longer distributed to all at the same level. The liberal application provides for an increase of 6 000 s for the mother-child passport examination, and this amount should also be granted without regard to the income limit of a family. We Liberals have clearly opposed the principle of the principle of foundry in the case of aid, and for this reason we cannot accept this request.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e21495	The next speaker is Mr Schuster. I'll give him the floor for 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e21513	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the speech of Mr Horngacher, the Tyrolean colleague, Mr Haller, said: First you take the money from the families and then you return the money as part of the Family Tax Reform! – Mrs Haller! I can tell you the following: If we in Austria analyse family promotions and make a comparison with the EU countries, we can clearly see that Austria is at the forefront! A federal government in Austria with a family minister called Bartenstein is still the best guarantee for a suitable family policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Something curious is the following: I agree with Mr Haller that she is really actively involved in the committee meetings and is trying to make good proposals. High house! However, I leave it to you to judge what it is to be said if a party in this House is voting in favour of a family tax reform, which accounts for 12.6 billion schilling, in third reading against the corresponding budget accompanying law and the corresponding measures, but then makes small applications. I leave it to voters to judge who is here on the right ship, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haller.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to say: Mrs Haller has said that the Federal Minister will no longer experience the effects of the abolition of birth aid and the backwardness of the investigations. – Minister of State! I make a "real correction" in the context of my contribution to the debit. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Schuster stay with your performance!]] They will definitely have a good family policy over the next few years, and the People's Party will certainly not agree to the opposition proposals.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e21567	The next speaker is Mrs Ludmilla Perfuss. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e21588	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The topic of child care check: Mr. Stadler! You're right. The left reject this check. In our opinion, why is the childcare check not a suitable form of support? – The money for this must be provided in any case, so many other benefits would be lost. The introduction of the childcare check would result in both men and women falling out of the unemployment insurance system. They would have to insure themselves, and that would cost about 900 s per month. The check would also have an impact on the range of pedigrees and kindergartens. The prices of care offers would go up. A care centre that is not subsidized would cost 7 000 S to 9 000 S. Professional care of children could no longer be paid due to unsafe use. The result would be that mothers were forced to stay home and care for their children themselves. However, due to the long distance from work, women lack skills in the field of work, and they are double-punished: first of all due to poor pay when they find work at all; and secondly, women lack years of entitlement for retirement. The low pensions for women have their origin in the generation of women who are now retired or gone. The check from 5 000 to 6 000 S per month to the sixth year of life of the child would be granted regardless of family income. Who would benefit from it? – Only the rich would benefit from this; however, most Austrian families, single parents, multi-child families and low-income families would not! Women from these areas would meet this on a number of occasions. A non-employed woman would not have any right to unemployment insurance benefits after the check had expired, and the woman in employment would have a loss over the current benefits, as the check amount is lower than the current pension and the average emergency aid. The demand for the introduction of the childcare check is very much due to the ideology: "Be a good mother, stay at home with your children, and don't leave her to the institutions!" – Together with the Minister for Women, we call for: Family support continues as a balanced mix of money grants and services, reconciliation of work and family by shortening working time, extending the return guarantee after vacation to 26 weeks, legally guaranteed possibility of placement of part-time jobs for parents with care obligations, comprehensive and needs-based childcare facilities and partnership sharing of care work between women and men!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e21636	No further words are available. That is why the debate is closed. I ask you to take the seats. The vote on each of the Committee's proposals will be taken separately. First of all, we are voting on the request of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report in 1289. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is decided by a majority. Accepted. We come to the vote on the request of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 1290 of the supplements. Here again, in the case of approval, I may request a sign. – I notice: This request shall be adopted by a majority. Finally, we are voting on the request of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 1291. In the event of approval, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – I notice: This request was adopted by a majority. 18. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (1186 of the Supplements): The Federal Act amending the Federal Carrying Act (1299 of the Supplements) 19. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 553/A by Mr Theresia Haidlmayrund Comrades on a Federal Act amending the Federal Insurance Act (BPGG) (1300 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e21727	We come to points 18 and 19 of the agenda, on which the debate will also be held under one. A request for reporting is not available, but a speech by Mrs Partik-Pablé. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e21748	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The treatment of the subject itself would actually require another hour and also a greater time. But unfortunately, we have very little time of God, and it is also very late. One should really really talk about how the original draft amendment of the Federal Carers' Money Act planned for a deterioration of levels six and seven. In view of this, above all, I would like to ask the Social Democrats how the disability policy in their view should go on, if they remember to cut the amounts especially for those who need the care money most urgently. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It was only thanks to the energetic protests of the disabled organizations that these deteriorations were taken back, but it remains the distrust that you are not reluctant to reduce the care allowance. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, in particular by the Socialists! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you should not be afraid of what has once been promised. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I would like to ask the Commissioner of the ÖVP, who really falls over and gets very weak, so that they don't always feel compelled to have an uplifting function for the Socialists at the expense of the disabled! Mr Feurstein! They're shaking the head! But you are indeed, unfortunately, ready in many things to give in to the socialists again and again, instead of putting yourself on the feet! This time, however, together with the disabled, you have succeeded in ensuring that you comply with the wishes of the disabled organisations. I would like to speak on a number of points. You have not fulfilled it and you have remained very guilty of the disabled. First of all, there has been no guarantee of the value of the care allowance for three years. Secondly, a disabled person who is housed in a facility still receives only 500 s of pocket money. We have discussed this in detail in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. But I think that the next step must be to take something there. For the argument made by the head of the section and also by the Minister of Social Affairs that those who receive the federal pension have an additional pension anyway, I think is really cynical! I believe that the Federal Government should perform an exemplary role in this area and must state to the countries that the allowance must be increased. Imagine, you are a youth disabled and housed in an institution and you only have 500 s pocket money! – But obviously the Social Democrats believe that if you have a bed, a locker, a chair and something to eat, then life is wonderful! Ladies and gentlemen! It's not like that! Because there are also young disabled people – and above all – who have the same needs as everyone else! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Minister! You have heard all our concerns in the committee. That is why I ask you: Why don't you do something? [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Your speaking time is up!]] Mrs Fekter! In all your prosperity, you may not really be able to imagine what it is like to have to do with 500 s pocket money a month! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You should be ashamed to take care of the time of speech, especially on this issue!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e21808	The next speaker is Mrs Reitsamer. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e21829	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the advanced hour, I would like to replicate very briefly the debate by Mrs Partik-Pablé. It has led us in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, and I understand that there are people with disabilities who have to deal with a pocket money of only 500 s. Mrs. Colleague! Hiebei, however, can't be referees under the Bundespflegegeldsgesetz, because they have a pension, and of this pension they stay 20 percent of the monthly allowance and the 13th and 14ths. Reference to the whole. But I admit that there is something wrong with the countries in this regard. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Tell Mrs. Bauer! She doesn't believe it!]] If you let me talk, I'll try to make a practical proposal! I have already said here several times, when I spoke about the care allowance, that when it comes to mobile services, the countries have different accounting arrangements and that there is a lot of money on the road. I do not want the countries to save this, but I think that we should do differently from the funding. That would be a zero-sum game for the countries. I am of the opinion that, like you, it is not enough to have a bed, a locker and a chair to be satisfied. I therefore believe that we should really talk to the countries in a very concrete way about whether we could not improve something for the disabled. I absolutely share this view, but this cannot be regulated by the Federal Carers' Money Act. There are two more speakers from my group who will deal with the other points. Unfortunately, we have very little time to speak. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e21865	The next speaker is Mrs Motter.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e21886	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Very soon: Today, it is decided that a novel to the Bundespflegegeldsgesetz, whose status in this form is due to the involvement of the disabled associations, should be taken into account. They have remedied the biggest inconsistencies in connection with the original intention of this law for several months in hard little work. In particular, corrections to the ministerial draft were made to the hours of stages 5 to 7 and also to the reduction of direct classifications. Nevertheless, deteriorations have to be observed for those concerned, such as the re-introduction of an age limit for young people, and there are also difficulties in interpreting the diagnostic catalogue according to § 4a. Nor can I understand in the re-ignited debate about a backward movement to the principle of benefits, when voices about the misuse of the care allowance are loud or even a Vienna vice-president from the ranks of the Social Democrats complain that people are now doing what they want with the care money. – I think this lady has forgotten what is contained in § 1 of this law, namely – quote –: "The aim of the care allowance is to improve the possibility of living a self-determined, need-oriented life." We Liberals confess and want adults to be able to shape and master their lives themselves! However, I must admit that the unfortunately chosen word 'care money' is not a good service here, and I believe that the people who use this money and, above all, need it have not deserved to be put to work as exploiters of the system! Ladies and gentlemen! This novelle may bring some improvements, and it is said to cost 500 million schilling more. However, there is no reason for self - renouncing! For we should not forget that cuts in the last two years have saved around 1.5 billion schillings. As an example, I mention only the outstanding valorization, the cuts in level 1 or the reduction in pocket money in your stay. I believe that we should finally eliminate these discriminations in solidarity with the people who are still, unfortunately, still being discriminated against, among others, also the disabled. Unfortunately, such efforts are not yet recognizable in this draft, which is why we will not give our approval to the new law.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e21929	The next speaker is Mrs Steibl. How do I set the clock? - 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e21947	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Experience in the evaluation of the Federal Insurance Act has shown that an adjustment is necessary. The aim now is to achieve an even more comprehensive care system and to improve the situation of people in need of care. I am speaking deliberately of an improvement in the situation of people in need of care, for Austria can be proud of this system! If I remember that social security and the federal government spent a total of 8.2 billion schilling on it in 1996, I think that Mr Partik-Pablé is not on the right path with her negative comments. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] This template also brings a massive improvement for those in need of care. For example, about 16,000 people in the care phase 4 can expect an increase of more than 3 000 s. I think that should be mentioned too! This will result in an additional need for the federal government, for example, only in 1999 of about 470 million schilling. This performance for the affected group should be seen positively! Finally, I would like to say: About 80 percent of the people in need of care are currently being cared for in the family association, 79 percent by women and only 20.3 percent by men. Further insurance, with effect from 1. It is an important step that has entered into force on January 1998. I would like to see an assessment and inclusion in GDP in this respect too. I would also like to say on behalf of the ÖVP that the presentation has been very, very well prepared. I thank the section for this, and I hope that everyone will agree!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e21986	Next speaker is Mrs Haidlmayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e22008	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Reitsamer! Your argument is really adventurous when you say that the countries have reduced the pocket money. They have cut the pocket money by the last law, but not the countries! The countries could not reduce the pocket money by law, for it is a federal law. And for the reduction of pocket money, not the countries are responsible, but the Federation – and also you, Mrs Reitsamer! This move to the countries is really an adventurous argument. [[Abg. Nicer: You didn't understand anything!]] It's already after midnight, you might forget some things. But that you're so forgetful, I don't trust you, but you just want to hide it and look for someone you can put the blame in your shoes. But the blame lies with you. Because you have deleted the pocket money, but not the countries. - That was point one. Point two: non-valorisation. Has it perhaps been caused by the countries, or is it the case of the federal government that there has been no valorization for years? If you are constantly repeating that the disabled institutions have agreed to this solution, then you are refusing to do so. No disability organisation agrees that there is no valorization. I also do not know any organization of disabled people who agree that disabled people must live in the home of 569 s a month. With regard to the institution of which you are saying that it agrees: Come on. Please get out and name the facility that agrees with a pocket money of 569 S and a non-valorization. Call her! Mrs. Minister! This innovation has also failed, or it has been refused to include deaf people in the circle of care providers. I do not know the reason why you are still refusing to do so, but I hope you will now differ a piece from the answer you have already made in writing, and perhaps in an additional sentence explain to me why people with disabilities still do not get a classification for the inclusion of care money. It would also be desirable to learn why children under the age of three do not have a right to care benefit. I know, Mr Guggenberger – we know your opinion – that you say: It does not matter whether a child is disabled or not, since it needs basically the same care effort until the third year of life. In your opinion, you have also represented them in the Committee. This opinion shows very clearly that you do not know what you are talking about, for otherwise you could never use this argument. But we are used to that fact that you are speaking about things that you did not actually talk to those concerned about. Again and again it is claimed that we could no longer afford the care money and would have to save. Shortening everywhere. Of the money you decided in 1996, you will return a third of the money to the affected, but two thirds of it will be reserved! They earn very, very good and use these funds to stop budget holes to increase the social security contributions for the care money. But you always dispute me that this is the case, and I believe that this is an opinion I represent as a Member of the Greens. Now I will read to you a letter from the Office of the Upper Austrian Government, drawn by the State Director Dr. E. Pesendorfer. He specifically writes "on behalf of Mr. Landesrats Ackerl" – this is truly not a Green Councillor, but a Council of State of the SPÖ. This letter deals with the demands of the countries, which reads as follows: This claim is all the more justified than the Federal Government does by far not raise the extra costs than were estimated at the time of the introduction of the care allowance and on whose cover the health insurance contributions were increased. That's what your Landesrat Ackerl writes in concrete terms. He also points out, as I do, that from the health insurance contributions, you stop the holes of the budget and do not disburse this money for the people in need of care. There is another point, Mrs. Minister. They're always talking about that there's no money. On the other hand, however, there is enough money to make an advertising film – no matter what budget it has been financed – for the care security, an advertising film that costs 3 000 S per cassette. There were 510 000 S for 170 video cassettes, which lie somewhere in the clubs and stow there because they were not requested by anyone. [[Abg. May. Guggenberger: And you want to know all that nobody sees!]] You sent these cassettes to those of whom you thought they could use them and they were interested. Mrs. Minister! It's a terrible thing to hide the money like that! If you had returned these 510 000 S to disabled people in the form of pocket money, that would have been a better job for hundreds of disabled people. But the advertising film you've made about this money is just stabbing on the shelf, and the disabled have nothing of it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Guggenberger: That's not true at all!]] If you have left too much money in the public relations budget and you have had to make this video film, then it would have been more sensible if you had resold this share of public health care budget and used it there properly, instead of hiding a lot of money for such pointless things and on the other hand, to say that you can't give the disabled people out of the care money more than 569 S pocket money. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: For self-consecration!]] Something's wrong, and I'll tell you what's wrong with that: They have no interest in the financial improvement of disabled people in the stationary facilities. For then they could become more expensive, but that they are getting more expensive is absolutely not your intention! Rather, you want to keep them short so that they are nicely quiet and satisfied with what the facility offers. This is limited to eating, sleeping, clothing and a few things that Mrs Partik-Pablé has already mentioned. But to finance a semi-secured quality of life, you wouldn't get 569 S per month. I think you'll need that alone if you go to the hairdresser once a month. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e22112	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Guggenberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e22134	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If you have heard Mrs Haidlmayr and Mrs Partik-Pablé before, you should think that a robbery is planned in the pockets of poor people in need of care. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Think about the first draft!]] The exact opposite is planned, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The innovation we are deciding on today will result in an annual increase in the cost to the people in need of care in this country of 470 million schilling. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You must not forget how it is in the European comparison!]] Some 15,000 people will receive more than 3 000 s per month. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Tell me what you first proposed!]] This is a novel we can be proud of. We also confess to that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Tell me what you've done! You're too cowardly about it! Say it!]] Once again, you are completely alone with your criticism, Mrs Haidlmayr and Mrs. Partik-Pablé. The roof organisation of the disabled organisations, the working group rehabilitation have become fully aware of this innovation. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Because nothing else left them!]] There has originally been some disagreement. They sat together and acted together. The working group on rehabilitation as spokesperson of 300,000 disabled people says: That's a good novel. - You say the opposite. Everyone can make their own rhymes on it. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: With Ach and Krach!]] Let me make a final comment, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Often the officials of the cash register do not represent the members!]] Two years ago, the Social Ministry, Professor Dr. Christian Badelt, commissioned the system of this care – I repeat: the system of this unique care provision! to examine its reliability and social balance. The certificate issued to the system in this study is simple and simple: This is an excellent, very excellent system! With this novel, we're still improving it around a good piece. That is why we are happy to agree.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e22263	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Chief. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e22284	Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Guggenberger! I think that what the government parties intend to adopt today is too much to see through the pink glasses. The disabled associations are now a little more calm than the first draft of what is being decided today would have brought even more significant deterioration to the disabled. [[Abg. May. Guggenberger: What is this deterioration in 470 million schilling more?]] But I can tell you what has also been predicted to you from the Senior Curia to the Austrian Working Group on Rehabilitation in the assessment of this draft, Mr Guggenberger! [[Abg. May. Guggenberger: Send it to me!]] You have pointed out in your discussions in the Committee that some 500 million schillings are now being spent more on the disabled. On the other hand, it is also known to you that from 1993 – from the beginning – you have withdrawn from the disabled a total of 7.11 billion schilling from the 18 billion schilling awarded for the care allowance by various legislative measures. In the absence of the aid, alone in the health insurance contributions and the loss of the disability allowance, more than 500 million schilling in one case and more revenue from 7 to 11 billion schilling in the other case has been brought to the federal government. Mr Guggenberger! I think if you were fair, you would admit that today you are returning a small fraction of what you have deprived the disabled, but that this is not a century project! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Guggenberger! It should also be said to you that the concerns that under this law the obligations of § 20 apply again to those people who once found themselves in the field of benefits before the introduction of the care allowance are quite justified. You cannot simply push people's concerns aside, Mr Guggenberger, that they now face the threat of being forced to do so again. Mr Guggenberger! You can't move aside either that the care expenses have increased exorbitantly in recent years: Beyond all inflation rates, care for the disabled has become more expensive, more expensive and more expensive! As a result, the public sector – including the municipalities – has made a significant contribution to removing the money from the pocket for the disabled. The work of the century is not God's!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e22354	The next speaker is Mr Seidinger. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e22375	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! If you've listened to the last speaker, you think that today's care money law in Austria would have been carried to the grave. It sounds like it's from some sides, and I'm holding back from it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I am also opposed to the fact that the various organisations in the field of disability are always opposed to this innovation. The Care Money Act is widely accepted. A majority vote is confirmed by Dr. Klaus Vogel, President of the Disability Organisation, of the recent amendment to the Federal Care Act adopted in the Council of Ministers. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Do you come out with 500 s pocket money?]] From the Association of War Victims and Disabled Persons: A whole section that says only that the whole thing is welcomed. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Do you come out with 500 s pocket money?]] Mrs. Colleague! I have 2 or 3 minutes of speaking time, I will not deal with you. Let's see one thing – and that's what I want to sum up: The situation of caregivers has been significantly improved, and the situation of the caregivers has been significantly improved. Through these novels there is more justice. The improvement of benefits has already been mentioned. There is an improvement in the position with regard to assignment, a trusted person should be included on request in a medical examination, and there are care documentations. An improvement will also be made if a child or a mentally disabled person is in the hospital. So if someone is in charge and has a contract, this service relationship, even if the caregiver is in the hospital, can remain upright for up to three months – and in individual cases beyond. I do not think there is a law that, if one changes it, does not leave any further wishes open. In this sense, the Socialist Group agrees. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e22430	Mrs Bundesminister spoke. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e22451	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! A few comments on this new law. The Bundespflegegeldgesetz is a relatively young law. I think that almost everyone in this House has spoken about a milestone in Austrian social policy when it comes to its decision-making. It is now about adapting this young law by means of a novel due to the knowledge gained since its existence and in particular taking into account various OGH findings. Finally, it is also a matter of taking into account a scientific study by Professor Badelt and of improving where they prove necessary from practice. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! I would ask you not to give the impression that it is now that deterioration is being brought about by this law, since you, Mrs Partik-Pablé, are saying in your own contribution that in the end this novel brings only improvements. Please don't worry about people! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: They're already insecure!]] It is an important law especially for a weak group in our society. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! The meaning of the Bundespflegegeldsgesetz is to pay flat-rate care-based additional expenses due to care. Due to the new definitions of the individual care groups, we have taken better account of this need. I therefore hope that the House will give its assent. I would also like to make a brief comment on Mrs Haidlmayr's contribution and her reference to an advertising film: I think it is the duty of a ministry to always provide comprehensive information to those concerned and always keep up-to-date information so that they can take advantage of all their rights and thus succeed in meeting the needs. I therefore regard it as my duty – and also my employees – to keep in mind that this task is taken into account. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Then issue printed papers and do not make a film!]] I therefore recognise not only the information services of the departments of the ministry, but also this film, which was excellently designed.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e22508	There is no further statement of words to this effect. The rapporteur also does not wish to conclude. That is why we come to the votes taken separately between the various Committees. Firstly, we shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1186 of the Supplements. There is a request from Mrs Partik-Pablé for a separate vote. First of all, I will have to vote on the parts of the law affected by the request for separate vote and finally on the remaining parts of the proposal, which have not yet been voted on. First of all, we shall proceed to a separate vote on § 4 para. 2 Stage 4 in Z 4 as amended by the Government template. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimously decided. We come to the separate vote on § 12 para. 3 in Z 10 as amended by the Government template. Here again, in case of consent, I am looking for a sign. . I note that the agreement will be given unanimously. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the draft government proposal. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to give their consent to a sign on this point. – This is adopted by a majority. We shall come, after the second reading has ended, immediately to the third reading. I should like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who also give their approval to this draft law at third reading show this by a sign. – The proposal was adopted by a majority of the third reading. Next, we shall vote on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1300 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to give their consent to a corresponding sign. . I note that the report 1300 of the Supplements has been taken note of by a majority. 20. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (1192 of Supplements): Federal Act amending the Payments Payment Act (1301 of Supplements) 21. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (1233 of the Supplements): Federal Law amending the Construction Workers' Bad Weather Compensation Act 1957 and the Construction Workers' Vacation and Handling Act (1302 of Supplements) 22. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the motion for a resolution (Doc. 23. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 819/A by Annemarie Reitsamer, Dr. Gottfried Feurstein and comrades on a Federal Act amending the Unemployment Insurance Act 1977, the Labour Market Policy Finance Act, the Carence Money Act and the Labour Market Service Act (1304 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e22646	Let us now get to points 20 to 23 of the agenda. The debate is also being held on this subject. No reporting is foreseen. The first speaker is Mr Deputies' Head. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e22674	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Our group will refuse to give its consent to the payment of compensation law in the present form, because, from our point of view, it is not consistent and not understandable, for which reasons only those companies that employ workers, and not all other parts of the economy, should make their contribution to the introduction of the chip card in the appropriate way. This is something that could not be explained to us either in committee or elsewhere. It is obviously the only mass of freely available resources from which 300 million schilling can be moved from the refund fund to the main association in order to prepare the chip card and its introduction. [[Abg. May. Peter: This is the employer's money!]] We will fully contribute to the building workers' bad weather compensation law. As in the Committee, we are going to reject the Post-Business Constitution Act again today, because we believe that at a time when all are talking about a uniform worker concept and a uniform employee representation, this Post-Business Constitution Act is simply an anachronism. We will not support this. We will request a separate vote on item 23. We will support those parts which provide for a single limit on unemployment benefit and valorization for the additional workers. We believe that the regulatory requirement has been properly recognized here, but we reject the regulation for those who have become independent and who are threatened with the danger of unemployment in the present form. The Federal Government contributed to these social maladministrations in 1996 through the then reform. We do not think that correcting these maladministrations in the present form is desirable – nor are those from the groups of entrepreneurs who used to be self-employed and who have been affected in the last two years, since the reform, by unemployment and insolvency. I therefore believe that our rejection on these points has good reasons.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e22711	The next speaker is Mrs Silhavy. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e22733	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I do not think it is necessary to stress in particular that the Socialist Group agrees with all four proposals. [[Abg. Wabl: That surprise! Why?]] I would like to take a very brief look at the 1233 government paper on the supplements. This includes equal treatment for workers of workers of workers of workers of workers of workers of the construction sector with regard to bad weather compensation, and in addition, the establishments of the Wildbach and avalanche cultivation are included in the winter holiday scheme of the BUAG. This is a regulation which, in our view, constitutes a necessary measure for the equal treatment of individual workers. The amendment of the Post Business Constitution Act – the rejection of the liberals is not surprising, as it corresponds to its long-term practice of not agreeing to employee representation schemes – contains clarifications – in particular with regard to indirect participation – and regulatory instruments for the area of action of the Staff Committee. If one has followed the latest events in the field of mail, one can see why these rules are necessary. For it is seen that this company also wants to achieve its stock market fit primarily at the expense of the workers. We therefore give our approval to all four proposals. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e22768	The next speaker is Mr Peter. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e22790	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Despite later hours, four remarks. [[Abg. Despite the early hour!]] The pay-up law still costs 2.1 percent of the gross wage sum, which means that additional wage costs are included – additional labour costs, Mr President Vergestnitsch, which we wanted to reduce together, because we want to reduce labour costs after we have realized that the amount of labour costs has a negative impact on the amount of employment. [[Abg. I said: early hour!]] Instead of using the surplus in this fund to reduce labour costs and reduce contributions, we use it to finance a chip card. I have never seen an insurance in my life, which, when it has introduced a new billing system, has called for its insured contributions to do so! Obviously, we have done a very, very bad business for entrepreneurs when we entered into a pay-out law, Mr. stupid! I pay in my company – because I have a good operating climate and therefore a few sick people – a lot more each year because of the pay-out law than I get out on this basis. In addition, the return flows that I obtain under the Pay-Up Act were continuously reduced: from 90 per cent to 80 per cent and then to 70 per cent. Ladies and gentlemen! Why do you force me as an entrepreneur into a pay-out law that I don't want? – Of course, I am willing to continue paying for my workers in case of illness, no question at all! Why don't you give me the opportunity to assure myself if I wish? Why Give You do not give me the opportunity to make sure that these financial resources are spent independently? Why don't you force me into an insurance first, and then if this insurance makes surpluses, don't lower the premium – no! – but go out and take 300 million schilling out of the pot, which is a pot of employers and only for workers, and finance a chip card with it? Politics is like this: We need money, so we're looking for a pot where money can be found. It shows: Ah, pay-for-money! There we now have 300 million schilling, we take it out and finance it with it. – If this is your policy, I can only regret you! Then please do not talk about reducing labour costs in the future! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on Green MEPs.]] We would like to agree with the building worker's holiday and handling law, ladies and gentlemen. But the Post Operating Constitution Act? Mrs Silhavy! The Social Democrats have in some programme that I can't quote right now: We want a uniform worker concept. We have in Austria a labour constitution law, one, as I mean, very important law. I think that we should continue to consider what new and further measures are possible in the matter of internal cooperation. But, Mrs Silhavy – acting as you are! –: It can hardly be true that we have a railway operating constitution law and a post-operational constitution law! When do you want to eliminate these maladministrations? When do you finally want to create uniform terms? Why do you always tell us something about the uniform worker concept, but please do not do anything for him to come? – I see no difference between an employee who works at the post office and one who works on the train or in another company. So if you want a uniform worker concept – you are in the government! You have all the power of the world, including our "great" woman Social, Health and Labour Minister! All that's her. Why do it? You don't have anything to do with this? Why do you think we're gonna do something about an old law? [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Silhavy: Then we expand workers' rights!]] Workers' rights should be the same. I can't see why a post-employee should be better than a railway worker and a railway worker something better than an employee in the industry! I just can't see that! [[Abg. Silhavy: What do we look like in the hospitality industry, Mr. Peter? What do we look like?]] In the host sector, the Labour Constitution Act applies. Thank God it is because it is a good law, Mrs. Silhavy! [[Abg. Silhavy: What about...?]] Mrs. Silhavy, you've got to get some air on call! Otherwise, I can't say anything if you don't breathe! Ladies and gentlemen! The last point: This is also a rather interesting destination, in which you have packed a lot of different things. We will therefore call for a separate vote. I would like to congratulate you on finally asserting the scope for new self-employed people. That's why you have – my compliment! – take a measure that it will be easier and less risky for the self-employed to take the step into self-employment. This is good. But one thing I don't understand, ladies and gentlemen, of the government groups you all talk about the new independence: Why should the reduction of the minimum basis of assessment in the GSVG for young entrepreneurs in the first three years end your dental crown disputeries? What do the dental crowns have to do with the promotion of young entrepreneurs?, I ask you here at the High House. What does that have to do with each other? Do you want to promote young entrepreneurs now, or do you want to argue about dental crowns? – Maybe someone can answer that question to me.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e22894	The next speaker was Mr Feurstein. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e22913	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The crucial change we are now deciding is undoubtedly the extension of unemployment insurance to self-employed. It is an essential step if we are now able to include self-employed persons in unemployment insurance, which means that they can secure their expectations which they have acquired in the long term. It is important not only for the self-employed in the past, but in particular for those who have now been included as new self-employed in the Social Insurance Act, that they are able to preserve unemployment insurance in all areas. Ladies and gentlemen! In this way, the right to sickness benefit and emergency aid can also be safeguarded. It is a very crucial step that we extend social security to all those who are active somewhere and at some point in the world, and thus strengthen social security. We are also very pleased, ladies and gentlemen, that the ASVG-Novelle, which is now being discussed in the Social Committee, as well as the novels on the Commercial Social Security Act and the Farm Social Insurance Act will be adopted as soon as possible. We hope that before the summer it will be possible to clarify the questions that remain open and to reach a positive conclusion. I fully agree with you, Mr Peter: We need these rules for the young people who become self-employed so that in this case they can obtain relief in the area of contribution payments. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. May. Peter.]] All in all, I believe that we are on a good footing and that we can make the necessary decisions not only today but also in the next few days. I think we can give our support to these proposals, as the regulations have been adopted in order to improve social security.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e22955	Next speaker is Mrs Haidlmayr. She's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e22976	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say in advance that we will not give our consent to the payment of compensation law, because it is not yet regulated what data this chip card should contain, how data protection is guaranteed, and, above all, the question of how much the introduction of the chip card will ultimately cost. You know very well that with the 300 million schillings you now want to clear out of payment, you will by far not get out to finance the chip card. You start the preparatory work without knowing which data will be on the chip card when you will enter it, which data protection You can ensure et cetera, et cetera. All these questions have not yet been clarified, and I think it is a waste of spending 300 million schillings on something, if you do not yet know how things look in the final effect and what success you will eventually make. We will agree to the Government's proposal on the revision of the Construction Workers' Bad Weather Compensation Act, because it will bring improvements to workers' rights and opportunities, for example, those employed through leasing companies, for example, who will be aware of the rights and opportunities to them. In any case, we will reject Mrs Reitsamer's request for the Post-Business Constitution Act. We have not been able to agree to the Post-Business Constitution Act at the time of its introduction, because we want a genuine harmonisation of workers' rights and no division, and according to this request by Mrs Reitsamer and Mr Feurstein, the passive right to vote for foreigners as well as for railways will not be introduced again. Rather, this Post-Business Constitution Act is only the basis for the possibility of further special arrangements in the future. For the post and for the train there are already such special arrangements, and the question arises which special arrangements you intend to make for which workers you still intend to make. Why do you, in the sense of all workers, seek not to standardize, but to break apart? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e23015	The next speaker is Mrs Sophie Bauer. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e23036	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to comment briefly on Amendment No 819/A, because this request is particularly important to me because it concerns the right to unemployment benefit and the granting of training grants. Ladies and gentlemen! We have created foundations and re-training facilities for people who have lost their jobs, in which they can re-orient themselves and thus have new opportunities in the labour market. I see that these training opportunities are very important in my area, because we are particularly affected by unemployment. And if you are at the base and suddenly faced with a large number of job losses, then you can only properly recognize and appreciate how important it is to have facilities with which a small hope can be given for the future. However, in order for those concerned to be able to take these training measures, it is necessary that the training-unemployment allowance with which the persons concerned have to contend with their livelihoods on which this request is based is also available. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We Social Democrats will continue to strive to improve the situation of unemployed people and give them the opportunity to participate in further training.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e23075	The next speaker is Mr Dolinschek. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e23094	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The application 819/A concerning a federal law which amends the unemployment insurance law, the labour market policy financing law, the karenzgeldgesetz and the labour market service law certainly brings from today's point of view an improvement in the social security of persons who were employed without an unemployment insurance obligation, namely self-employed, non-employed persons, unemployed self-employed persons or new self-employed persons, as well as persons employed outside the European Economic Area. The main point of this application therefore concerns the creation of relief for the above-mentioned category of persons, who, by virtue of the 1996 Structural Adjustment Act, lost their old entitlements from unemployment insurance and, under the current legislation, could at best still receive social assistance. Now a uniform monthly amount of 500 S is to be paid for the three-year period, which, however, leads to an unemployment allowance of a maximum of the compensatory allowance rate. Repurchasing on the basis of the hole for that category of persons created by this Structural Adjustment Act of 1996 will at least cost 8 500 s. Our proposal, expressed in several requests, concerning the creation of a kind of eternal expectation, if the persons concerned had been insured for a long time and had received little benefit, would more be in line with the needs of the economy and would also be more in line with the old legal status than the framework period would have been extended without any contributions. This is another manko in this law. We would have presented ourselves with better solutions, such as, as already mentioned, the creation of eternal expectations, if someone had previously been self-employed for a long time and had acquired insurance periods. A great advantage is that there is a valorization and an increase in the unit value limit for the reference of unemployment or pension funds from 54 000 S to 60 000 S if a person has been employed in agriculture and forestry.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e23129	The next speaker is Mr Schwarzenberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e23150	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! As the last item on the agenda today, we are dealing with an application to amend the Unemployment Insurance Act. Some of the demands that have been made on the part of the peasantry for many years have been fulfilled in part, but to a modest extent. The unit value limit is increased from 54 000 S to 60 000 S. In particular, the definition of the group of persons to which this regulation applies is important. Now it says: "... who manages an operation from 60 000 s on his own account and danger". So far, the wording has stated: "... who owns an agricultural and forestry holding", and in this regard there have been many ambiguities on the part of the employment offices. Now it's clear: If the farmer is a co-owner, is subject to social security and is paying pension insurance, she is a farm leader, and it can also be paid unemployment benefit, which is above the basis of the calculation of 60 000 S. It is also important that a valorization is now established. In addition, it has so far been extremely complicated to identify the income situation for the calculation of emergency aid in an agricultural and forestry holding. Now this is clearly defined by 4 percent of the unit value. So there are a number of improvements that we welcome.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e23187	The next speaker is Mr Drunkl.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e23208	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The change in the unemployment insurance law is indeed a quantum leap in Austrian social policy. This law now allows groups of people to obtain unemployment benefits, which have so far been excluded from them. In particular, the self-employed people we need because they create jobs. We would therefore like to encourage them to make themselves independent, and we believe that this minimum security will remove a major obstacle to business start-ups. It is important for us from the People's Party that this involvement enables insurance on a voluntary basis. Because we don't want any compulsion and no compulsion. We don't want anyone to cancel this insurance. But the person who wants to make this security voluntarily now has the opportunity to do so. I regret that the liberals have not made it clear today whether they are for it or against it. We'll tell the entrepreneurs what side they're on! I would also like to say that I am pleased that today we have been able to open up a group of people which we have wanted for many, many years clearly and very massively.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e23246	Mrs Bundesminister spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e23268	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank you for submitting this motion for a resolution, 819/A, which has already been referred to in the debate and with which we are setting an important measure for self-employed persons who choose to be self-employed, namely that the framework period for the protection of claims is maintained according to an insurance contribution. I believe, however, that it is also very important for us to take precautions that we can observe how the development between expenditure and benefit claims and also on the contribution side and which groups use this right and necessary option in our society. I would also like to thank the fact that this amendment also ensures that the revitalisation can be claimed again in 1999.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e23301	Thank you many times, Mrs. Minister. No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is therefore closed. We shall now proceed to the vote, and I would therefore ask you to take the places. Firstly, we shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1192 of the Supplements. I should like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen, who agree with this proposal in 1192 of the Supplements, give a sign of approval. – This was adopted by a majority in second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – The proposal was adopted by a majority of the third reading. We shall also vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1233 of the supplements. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this bill. – This is decided unanimously. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also give their approval at third reading to the presentation, to give a sign on this matter. – The National Council shall act unanimously at third reading. Next, we shall vote on the proposal in 1303 of the Supplements. Here again, I should like to ask for a sign in the case of approval. This proposal was adopted by a majority in second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to the proposal 1303 of the Supplements at third reading to give a sign on this point. – This was adopted by a majority in the third reading. Next, we shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1304 of the Supplements. There is a request from the honourable Member Mag. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Peter is being divided. First of all, I will have to vote on the parts concerned by the publishing house on separate votes and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Firstly, we shall proceed to a separate vote on Rule 1 Z 1 as amended by the Committee's report. In case of consent, I am looking for a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall proceed to a separate vote on Rule 1 Z 2 as amended by the Committee's report. Here again, in the event of approval, I would like to ask for a sign of this kind. I note that this part of the draft law was unanimously adopted at second reading. I shall now vote on Rule 1 Z3 as amended by the Committee's report. – This part of the draft law has also been adopted unanimously. Next, we shall vote on Rule 1 (Z5) as amended by the Committee's report. In case of consent, I'm looking for a sign. – Article 1 Z5 was adopted by a majority in second reading. The next item is Rule 1 (Z7) as amended by the Committee's report. I ask for a sign in case of consent. – Article 1 Z7 was adopted by a majority. The next item is a separate vote on Rule 1 Z 10 as amended by the Committee's report. In case of consent, I'm looking for a sign. . I note decision-making at second reading on the basis of unanimity. We shall vote on Rule 1 Z 16 as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to show this. – Article 1 Z 16 was adopted unanimously. The vote will be taken on Rule 1 Z 22 as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this for a sign. – I notice: The National Council shall adopt this point unanimously at second reading. The next item is Rule 2 Z 2 as amended by the Committee's report. In the event of approval, I would like to ask for a sign on this matter. – Article 2 Z 2 is adopted unanimously. We shall vote on Article 2 Z 4. I ask for a sign in case of consent. – I notice: Article 2 Z 4 is adopted unanimously. We shall vote separately on Rule 3 Z 1 as amended by the Committee's report. In the event of approval, I would ask for a sign on this matter. – I see unanimity with regard to Article 3 Z 1. We shall also vote on Article 3 Z4 as amended by the Committee's report. – This part of the draft law is also unanimously adopted. Next, we shall vote on Rule 3 (Z5) as amended by the Committee's report. – The National Council shall act unanimously. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. In the event of approval, I would ask for a sign on this matter. – The National Council shall act by a majority at second reading. This concludes the second reading. We are now at the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to the proposal in third reading to give a sign. – The proposal was adopted by a majority of the third reading. The agenda is exhausted. Findings concerning the unpunished absence of a Member
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e23490	I note that Mr Rosenstingl has left this sitting unpunished. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00133_d7e23517	I declare that at today's meeting, requests 824/A to 834/A and questions 4613/J to 4643/J were made. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for today, Wednesday, 8. ==References====External links== At the same time, I can remind you of the Federal Assembly scheduled for 10 a.m. The agenda for tomorrow's National Council meeting has been distributed in writing at the meeting room. This meeting is closed.
