ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e2999	Ladies and gentlemen! I can ask you to take the seats. I'll open the 154. Meeting of the National Council. The official protocols of 152. Meeting of 4 and 5. ==References== Meeting of 5. In December, there was no opposition in Parliament's management. They are therefore considered approved. As an obstacle to today's meeting, MEPs are Haller, Vergestnich, Haidlmayr, Ing. Meischberger, Dr. König, Hagenhofer and Dr. Salzl. Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e3036	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: "Care money for all – a command of social justice" Mrs Rosemarie Bauer. Their speaking time shall be 10 minutes in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e3066	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. Federal Minister Prammer! I am particularly pleased that you are now sitting on the bench because this issue we are dealing with today is not entirely conflict-free and you have an opinion on this which I cannot share. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian People's Party called for the implementation of this current hour on the subject of "carry money for all – a command of social justice" because we are convinced that the extension provided by Federal Minister Bartenstein and the conversion of karenz money to a family benefit is useful, but not only that, but it would also mean that from the year 2000 mothers and fathers, namely all mothers and fathers, would receive 6 000 s of carnation money per month. We believe that this would be a long-term measure, a measure in the sense of social justice. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We of the Austrian People's Party all mothers are of equal value, and therefore we are above all for social justice. We have to assume that the family compensation fund pays 70 per cent to the pension funds, and only this fact makes it clear that this fund is a solidarity fund which is intended to achieve a burden-equilibrium between those who do not have children and those who have children. That is why we think it is absolutely socially fair to take the funds for the payment of the pension money to the full from this fund, but to pay it to all mothers and fathers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As a result of this measure, all minor employees, all housewives, all students would be entitled to full or equal care, and, of course, self-employed farmers, free women and, as I have taken out a broadcast from Mr. Caritas Director Dr. Landau, also the emergency workers. This group comprises 11%. 11 percent of mothers are so far excluded from the cover of full leave. However, it is very important for us that there is no discrimination between mothers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Bartenstein model would also mean less bureaucracy and more administrative simplification. The decoupling of a previous service relationship makes an important contribution to the transparency of this claim. I know what I am talking about, and I know how important it is, because many women can be consulted, and it is often extremely difficult to help women, if they are already pregnant, still to have a claim for a pension. It is therefore very important that this claim be seen as a family claim and, of course, decoupled from the previous employment, whether it was done internally or out of the home. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is especially important for those women who have another child, who are dedicated to child rearing after the first child, take care of karenz, want to care for their own child beyond Karenz, and then have no claim for another child. Our model would also provide more justice and equality. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! When the FLAF was set up or 15 years ago, 25 percent of the family allowance fund was spent on the pension fund. I have already mentioned that today, the family minister is spending 70 percent on it. Therefore, I think it is only right and reasonable that, with the acquisition of the payment of the remaining 30 percent of the family compensation fund, he also determines the distribution of the funds accordingly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The harmonization of this type of financing, of course, also entails simplification in the administration, and the absence of the examination of the requirements for claims makes the whole unbureaucratic and much easier. In this context, I would also like to stress the desire to have the family allowance paid through the financial offices, as well as the family allowance, because that would be the even easier way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Bartenstein model, however, is also an essential contribution to the better compatibility of family and profession, because any variant of working time can be freely agreed with the service provider, without affecting the claim for care. This is the next point that has caused us some sorrow so far. This would, of course, also mean an improvement in the return and more freedom of choice for parents. Fathers would have better opportunities to actively devote themselves to the education and care of children. This proposal by Federal Minister Bartenstein is therefore fair because every mother or father is equally valuable and treated equally. It can be financed from the funds of the Family Allowance Fund, it relieves labour costs, and it could lead to a saving of 2.3 billion schilling in the area of unemployment insurance, which is available for other measures, and this proposal also means less bureaucracy. If we look at these benefits and remember that these funds are available in the Fund from the year 2000, we are already asking the question, which I believe is justified, which is hindering the implementation of this proposal. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What really prevents us from ensuring that every mother or father receives 6 000 s of carnage money for her or her child from the year 2000 onwards? [[Abg. Madl: The ÖVP prevents this!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] This model, this beardstone model, ladies and gentlemen, has – and you just hear it – created vehement opposition, but above all with our coalition partner, something that has very strange to me. [[Prolonged calls to the liberals.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! The first question is that of financing. I think I have been sufficiently concerned about this question. The funds for this are available. The second question, however, is certainly the most vehemently disputed point, namely that these payments should not be regarded as family benefits. The aim is to maintain the principle of insurance, which would mean that there would be an uneven payment or that many – namely 11 percent of all mothers – would be excluded from the reference of karenz money. We cannot imagine that! And, Mrs Federal Minister, your statement would also be entitled to refer to housewives who have never worked, I reject vehemently! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Something like that! That's great!]] This has hurt me personally, also as a women's politician. First of all, the 600 000 full housewives who exist in Austria will certainly be offended, and second, every woman is a housewife, especially when she has children; then she is not only a mother, but then she is a housewife. The best thing was certainly the statement made by President Schmidleithner, who meant that it would be a social crime to decouple insurance. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, I am deeply outraged by this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I have been in this Parliament for almost 16 years now and, as a family politician, I have always suffered very much from the fact that year after year we have taken funds out of this family compensation fund to use it to stop budget holes. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] Another case of sin is far behind, but if the Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Party is upset here, I must address it to the 2. Remembrance of the 1985 budget law – colleague Haigermoser was family spokesperson at the time –: We bought weapons with the family money! [[Newly fierce calls to the liberals.]] They were in the government at the time! That's to be read! Your sin was the greatest of all times! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Prolonged calls to the liberals.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I remember a similar vehement Current hour on the subject of family tax law. Today I am delighted when our coalition partner, who so opposed himself at the time, protests that we have enforced this measure. I wish our theme today – karenz money for everyone – the same success!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e3222	The Federal Minister has made a statement on this point. His speaking time should also not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e3243	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mrs Bauer has just said that every ninth woman and mother today – theoretically every ninth man – but in practice, 99 percent of women who go to Karenz have no right to karenz money. This has, if there is a reason to be justified at all, historical reasons, because when the pension was introduced in 1961, it was indeed a benefit of unemployment insurance, this benefit was useful and justified to a previous activity. But this, as Mrs Bauer has said, has changed fundamentally in the meantime. Today, it is not only 70 per cent, but, if you include pension insurance benefits, Mrs Bauer, even 75 per cent, is paid to three quarters of the family pot – FLAF – and has long since become a family benefit from the funding. If you look at family benefits on the one hand and ask yourself on the other hand: If it is then still justified that every ninth woman falls over the karenz money, then my clear answer, ladies and gentlemen, is: No, that's no longer justified! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In particular, this is no longer justified if one knows which groups of women are: They are students, they are students, they are farmers, they are housewives, and they are thousands of women who make the so-called 3 830-S jobs that are little busy once a week as a cashier and are truly not among the best, as are the other women's groups. And I also say this to those who are in the ranks of the coalition partner: It is not the question for me whether or not this is done in accordance with the principle of foundry, but I say that the proposal, which I and my friends are carrying, is therefore a command of social justice, because social security is increasing, because, in particular, the women who are excluded from it in the future, are not able to obtain any pension money, namely those women who are unjustly and socially uninvited. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If there is any further evidence that greater social security is needed in this area, I ask all the doubters to ask for Caritas. There it is practiced practice – although legal, but using the legal possibilities – to hire students, students who are pregnant, for a certain period of time, in order to acquire the right to a pension fund formally. - Yes, do we need that? I say: No, we don't need that! Let's make this family benefit karenz money for 89 percent of women now a family benefit karenz money for all the women of Austria, because every mother should really be of equal value to us! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I also do not understand in this connection that accusations such as the "social crime" are raised, or why we now downgrade the childcare services, which are also provided by housewives – not only child care services are provided by the housewives, but very often also care services for older people. From my point of view, that is not part of this discussion. It is, as Mrs Bauer has said, but also an essential element of the better compatibility of family and work that we would create with a pension fund for all. Because how is it today? – Today, a woman on a karenz leave de facto can hardly deserve anything to do with it. It is de facto a professional ban. The re-entry is made difficult. A holiday representation is only possible within very narrow limits. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to draw up a large number of these rigid regulations. Whoever receives karenz money, should also be allowed to make holiday representations in the future, should have significantly cheaper service possibilities. This is a contribution to the better compatibility of family and work, which is a contribution to the better choice of young women, which is a contribution to an optimized return of women after their leave. I do not understand that it is precisely from the coalition partner's side that the accusation is that it would push the women back to the herd. So if something pushes women on the herd, then the current karenz scheme, because the current de facto ban on the profession, of course, forces women to stay at home for 18 months, to stay with the child, so also to keep up. [[Abg. Fuchs: The men too!]] If you want to raise this accusation in any way, then in relation to the existing system, but certainly not in relation to our proposal "carry money for all". [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course, the issue of financing is also important in times when there is still an important need for sparing. However, I believe that it would justify an increase of 700 to 800 million schillings, especially if one knew that the acquisition of the 25 percent share of the unemployment benefit in the FLAF family pot would free up a financing volume of between 2.3 billion and 2.5 billion schillings today. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If I consider what in the first days of the debate on tax reform everything possible to reduce labour costs has already been de facto qualified as not feasible, then I must say: In any event, this proposal includes the possibility of reducing labour costs by up to 2.5 billion schilling annually in the area of unemployment insurance, which is 0.3 percent. This may not seem much, but it's a beginning. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am therefore saying: We should not leave Austria's students, students, housewives, peasants, especially the 3 830 S-month-olds alone in the rain, if they are pregnant if they need care money after the birth of their child. It is more than a justified salary for 18 months of childcare, which is also highly in the public interest. It is not just private interest. I am calling on the coalition partner to enter into a serious discussion with us on this matter, to put aside some kind of prejudice and to put forward this proposal for a realization. It is a requirement of social justice, it increases social security, it benefits above all groups of women who really need it, it is financeable, it creates opportunities to reduce labour costs, and, in conclusion, it also finds this proposal a high degree of public approval. 61 percent of Austrians agree with this proposal. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen on the side of the coalition partner! 56 percent of your voters also agree with this proposal. Ergo of which I mean: It is an obvious proposal that should be seriously discussed in the sense of the mothers, the women of Austria. And I would like to invite you to that!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e3315	We are now going into the debate. The speaking times are 5 minutes each. Mrs. Dr. Sonja Moser-Starrach. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e3336	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We've learned how to swim like fish, says Martin Luther King, and how to fly the birds, but we obviously haven't learned how to live with brothers. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Like sisters too!]] We may be able to open a serious discussion on the subject of "carence money for all" at this current hour – the invitation is open to all of us. It is the task of family policy to respond to changed conditions in an appropriate way. We all know the social changes and the family stress situations resulting from them. Let's have a thought! It is not worthy of our democracy, and it is not an act of fairness and solidarity if we do not recognise and not reward the work we have done. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We need to see facts now. Family, care and education work accounts for over 90 percent of women. The equivalent of their work represents 40 percent of gross domestic product, over 800 billion schilling. It's about social justice. It is about mothers and fathers having time, time for things that need time. It's about the use for our children. Children must be the starting point of any argument in family policy! No Tamagotchi, no B-Free Children's Handy can replace father and mother! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The first smile, the first steps must be accompanied with love, love and again love. Children do not experience this love and care, nor are they able to pass on this love and care to the next generation. The use for our children is crucial. Thousands of new fathers and mothers take on a job every year, which is one of the most difficult ones anyone can have: They get a child, a small, helpless person, and take full responsibility for his physical and mental well-being. Is there a more difficult, more demanding work than this? To whom, then, should this pension money be paid to all, or do we call it educational money or allowance? – Nearly 11 per cent, 7 000 people, 7 per cent of students, students, housewives and small employees, and 4 per cent self-employed, farmers, free women, for whom their current part-time allowance is to be increased to double. The cost is 700 to 800 million schilling. They can be paid out of FLAF, which will balance positively by the year 2000. It is also, as Federal Minister Bartenstein has already said, the only suitable proposal to reduce additional labour costs, in the amount of 2.3 billion schilling. In addition to family-friendlyness and child-friendliness, which represents this "carence money for all", there are still three special remarks: First: The ban on the profession is supposed to be dropped. Fathers and mothers should be able to earn it during the karenz period. It is precisely that way that Federal Minister Bartenstein showed, namely not to chain fathers and mothers to the herd and make family and profession more compatible. Secondly, The husband's claim for sickness benefit or education and care allowance should no longer be dependent on that of the woman. Partnership should also provide access. Thirdly, As is currently the case, pensioners should be given the opportunity to pay pension contributions, like all those who do work, in order to build up and thus ensure independent pensions from the outset. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Remember that we ourselves, as we now dispose of or lovingly care for our children, are once disposed of or cared for in old age. What you love must be taken care of!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e3390	The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Mertel. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e3411	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! On the other hand, I should like to say that we do not want to give priority to social democrats and Democrats "carence money for all" because, as Mr Bartenstein suggests, there can really be no final wisdom. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] A few months ago, he wanted to make us tasteful of the "child care check", whereby in this context a study of a few million schillings was commissioned. Then came, as it were, a vision of the Minister Bartenstein: Childcare money! – But that didn't last long, just a few weeks, then he thought it over again and came to the "carence money for all". [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Moser-Starrach.]] Mrs. Starrach! I would ask you to take facts into account. If you tell us: Look at the facts!, I can only answer: This has no priority for us, and I would also like to explain why. Despite the high use of resources – Minister Bartenstein speaks of 800 million schilling in this context, but in reality this will cost up to 1.3 billion schilling – this would not create additional jobs, especially for women. [[Abg. Smoking Callat: Families are being strengthened!]] There is nothing to help women and men get a better job and family into a hat. All the results of this survey confirm that this is precisely what is desired. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] We must also ask ourselves the question: Where do the resources of the FLAF come from, Mr. Minister? – These come to 72 percent of the employees. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: No, of the employers!]] And it's also the question to ask: Where are they distributed? [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] It would mean that young women are being forced out of the labour market. In the case of a job search, they would be rejected with the argument that they would be parents of child education money anyway. There would also be no incentives to improve the labour market situation of women, to make it easier to get back into work and to force the development of childcare facilities. As surpluses in the FLAF are announced: Ladies and gentlemen, what is the result of these surpluses? – Through two savings packages as well as a return to the Austrian families! All the Austrian families have contributed to this, and it is therefore logical that everyone who had to take the savings measures should get something again! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] "Care money for all" said that, although everyone saved, only 15 percent of the families received a little back. 85 percent would go empty, self-employed and farmers would even get more out than they lost through savings. "Care money for all" is socially not fair, Mrs. Bauer! But you were always the strongest defender of the principle that, apart from benefits for families, social benefits from the FLAF should not be paid. – This is a total contradiction to what you demand now! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] "Care money for all" is socially not fair! And three examples. A family, man, woman, both working, with a monthly income of 15,000 p.a., together with 30 000 p. When a child is born, an income is lost: So 15 000 S plus about 6 000 S, makes a net income of 21 000 S. This meant a loss of income of 9 000 S net per month. Further example: A single parent, income 15 000 S, then received a cash benefit of 6 000 S. Income loss: 9 000 S. Further example: A single earner's family, husband 21,000 s of income, wife not employed, full house wife. This would then receive 6 000 s according to your perceptions. But what did that mean? – An increase in income, namely a sudden income of 31,000 s per month. So that means that the winners of a "carer money for all" would not be the professionals, not the workers, who pay contributions, but those who do not pay contributions. And that's where I'm asking: Would it be socially fair for those who pay contributions to be redistributed to those who don't pay, Mr. Haider?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Steibl: Students!]] The introduction of a pension fund for all meant that nothing was left for other useful measures, such as the creation of qualified women's jobs, as provided for in the National Employment Action Plan. And the ÖVP will certainly confess to this, but it has decided to do so. [[Calls of the Abg. Rosemarie Bauer.]] We Social Democrats want more childcare places, because children have a right to be qualified outside the family. This would also create additional jobs for women. We also want an increase in the amount of care... [[Abg. Gaugg: I would be interested in why you don't have children!]] I can tell you this in detail. – But that was of course from the deepest drawer, as not to be expected otherwise, I would like to say; almost primitive. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We advocate an increase in the amount of karenz money to an existential level, an extension of the Carenz money to two years for all single parents, for a Karenz-Zeit-Zeit, so that Karenz-Zeit...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e3563	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e3578	... mothers and fathers can be freely chosen for an extension of the retention period, for re-entry aid and for training and further training measures. Finally, Mr President: "Care money for all" would be an expression of a missed family policy. However, we from SPÖ stand for a socially just, still financeable, and thus for a responsible family policy. The SPÖ doesn't want a new savings package!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e3620	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Haider. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e3650	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the discussion between the government parties, it is really only possible to ask why, now, both ÖVP and SPÖ suddenly invent all possible new ideas for the families, it was these two parties, who have recently restricted the reference of the karenz money, from two years to one and a half years. And these two parties have – for more than ten years! – through a constitutional arrangement, families have stolen more than 100 billion shillings of money, in the truest sense of the word! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: You recommended this to us to shorten the karenz time!]] Mrs Mertel! A family father had to go to the Constitutional Court, which thus forced the government to bring about a change in the tax laws in order to repair the unconstitutional reduction in family incomes. So it really doesn't look good if you're spreading big ideas for the families now and there's another... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] You have also said that you want the karenz money to be increased. – This is such a game that you have the feeling that it is only more about ideological conflicts. I believe that one should, in particular, leave the ideology aside, but ask the question: What does a society that matters to children need? I think this society needs to realize once again that there are many developments in families today, in the case of single earners, and that, in general, children suffer from it, that the grant that children should receive in the first years of life is not given to the extent that this would be necessary. This, in turn, means that we need all kinds of replacement facilities – baby cribs, kindergartens, psychologists, therapists – which repair this to the children, which was ultimately created by misbehaviors in our society, because the child was given the mother's allowance. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Every pediatrician, every psychologist will tell you – please check this out with Professor Heitger! – that the most important stage of development for a child is the one from the first to the sixth year of life and that the embossing is therefore so important at this stage because the child also has a special assignment to the mother. – The father should and must assume his responsibility, but the use of the mother to the child is crucial in these years of life. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] That is why we have said freedom of movement: We are in favour of the introduction of a so-called childcare allowance, so that the wife and mother have the opportunity until the sixth year of life of the child to decide on the extent to which they carry out professional obligations, to what extent she wants to stay at home with the child, whether she is at home at all and dedicated to her child or to her children. So the woman should have the opportunity to make her personal decision freely with an amount of 5 700 s per month, up to the sixth year of the child's life. – This is for us family policy, which also gives children what children can expect from a human society. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I have written a letter to women – you know, we are discussing the question of child care check also on the occasion of the Carinthian country elections – and a woman has answered the following – I am now quoting from a letter that has arrived with me today: "I've been very pleased about your letter about the children's check," she writes. I am a young mother of 20 years and I also belong to those women who do not receive any support from the welfare state of Austria. I was just in the last year of my education at the trade school when I got pregnant unplanned. For me it was immediately decided to keep the child. I finished the trade school with excellent success in June of this year. In September, my daughter Melanie was born. I immediately took care of various applications, family grant and so on. Then it hit me like a blow: Neither the one nor the other was approved. If I had previously known how bad it would be to me due to my termination of school, I would certainly have aborted her and gone to work. Since then, I have to turn around every schilling twice and have been forced to find a job as soon as possible to trust my daughter in a mother-in-law and thus also her education. I never imagined that!" - Quote. With regard to such descriptions, I say: You should take note of this! I already agree with the Minister that we have to do something here, but I believe that our free proposal with the family check is the more reasonable – and all the more so, Mr Minister, as your own party in Carinthia now under the title "Our Family – Our Future. The Carinthian People's Party" a proposal...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e3720	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e3735	– I’m already there –... which you criticize against us, put yourself as a demand. The ÖVP in Carinthia says we are demanding a child care allowance: For each child up to the sixth year of age, there should be 5 700 S per month regardless of the use and regardless of the income of the parents. I congratulate our idea!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e3765	The next speaker is Mrs Klara Motter. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e3793	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to comment on the comments made by my previous speaker, because time is simply too short. I would like to address ÖVP and SPÖ deliberately: It shows us today how serious the ideological differences in family policy are and how this dispute develops and leads to a division of the coalition. The present hour, ladies and gentlemen, is pure campaigning and nothing else! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, I would like to say this to you: If in Carinthia a poster is ready to read on the "Fruit Christmas and a good 1999 with 3 000 S more per child", then the pure eye-catching and simply cheap rear-light-leading of the citizen and the citizen is. I do not think that we are doing a good thing for the citizen if we do not show where the means of fulfilling such promises will come from in the future. It's written to you in the main book! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Without showing from which sources in the future the funds for raising the amount of care available to all mothers, Mr Minister, I think that all the proposals in this respect are simply irresponsible. You're not the sole government! You cannot have FLAF. It was written to you in the main book: The FLAF still pays the employers! That's quite clear. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on Mr Tichy-Schreder.]] Likewise, ladies and gentlemen, the further demands in the 2000 family package are... [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] No, that's not right anymore! That was the approach of this FLAF, but it's not true anymore. The FLAF... – No, we'll talk about it afterwards. [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Similarly, the further requirements in the 2000 family package of the ÖVP are by no means financially and for the future. We Liberals, ladies and gentlemen, are committed to the promotion of the family, as well as to the benefit of the karenz. However, we want a viable solution. For us, the socially unbearable casting pot has long been out of the future. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] We therefore consider the liberal model of basic security, which has often been discussed here in the house, to be the right approach for making more justice also for parents and families. Another criticism for us Liberals is that it is clear that women continue to have to bear all the burdens. My previous speakers have already made this clear: The woman belongs to the family. I'm just wondering: What about the children whose mothers had to work? Do these now need psychological care? Haven't they become valuable people? We therefore think it would be useful to include in the negotiations a large number of the rules which make it difficult for men to go into Karenz. That is why I would like to point out our request, which we made in November. Ladies and gentlemen! In 1997, 115 720 mothers, but only 1,068 fathers, not even 1 percent, were in Karenz. The key to this blatant misunderstanding is certainly the continuing income sheath between male and female professionals. When financial aspects decide who is going in Karenz, and the abandonment of income from the fathers is so much more important than the mothers, nothing will change – logical consequence – in the present situation. Also the traditional role understanding – we have heard this today – that the woman has a primary duty to take care of, is a further contribution here. Ladies and gentlemen! In order to counter at least the financial moment, we want to know the karenz period treated analogously to unemployment, i.e. 80 percent of the last salary soaked down and covered up. If we really take equality in Austria seriously, we must also take two steps on the issue of karenz. This means first of all facilitating the participation of women in working life, and secondly, enabling fathers to participate in family life equally. This, of course, requires regulations such as the re-evaluation of work, a wide variety of services and much more. Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, my speaking time is over. It would be really important to discuss it seriously instead of holding a current hour on this issue of just campaigning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e3888	The next speaker is Mr Karl Ollinger. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e3909	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Electoral season is getting into this house. Just as suddenly 30 billion schillings are being paid in the short term in the tax reform, so now you are trying to do all that you have done over the past few years, ladies and gentlemen! However, it cannot only be said that we are producing ourselves here, Mr Federal Minister, and we are saying: Carnation money for everyone! We get into the bag, there's still something left, and we like to pass it on. Federal Minister! You – or, better said, your party – have all remained guilty to us! What have you done about women in recent years? – You have shortened the days of karenz! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] They have women who punish single women. Mr Khol still stands for a concept which provides for a penalty for single women who cannot or do not want to call the name of the child father, namely not to grant the increased care allowance. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's the least you can demand!]] It was only when Mr Bartenstein said that he also wanted them to receive the increased karenz money again that was suddenly a slightly different mood in the ÖVP. Ladies and gentlemen! It is still true that despite the removal of the second half of the second year in the second year of karenz, no more men have gone into Karenz – just mentioned on the verge – this is in the promille area, Mr. Federal Minister! A few hundred fathers are more, especially the unemployed men. That's in the Promille range. But it is still – and this is the really terrifying one, Mr. Federal Minister – that women cannot agree after the end of the Karenz profession and family, and that is your policy that you have to answer. There is a dramatic increase in people who now need special emergency aid because they do not know how to get over the rounds. There is still no increase in the paycheck. You would have had four years to allow at least the caregivers to do what you, of course, can also give pensioners an adjustment each year. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Why Make You don't, Mr. Federal Minister and also Mrs. Federal Minister? That would be the simple condition for us to take a little more seriously what you represent here. Secondly, It is, of course, right and important to talk about the fact that groups currently excluded from the reference to the pension fund will be included in future. It is essential, however, that we understand what Karenz is supposed to do. What's she for? – The karenz period, the karenz money is intended for the interruption of a certain activity: the profession, for me also the training. I am very much in favour of students receiving karenz money, unlike before. Only, Mr Federal Minister, since you referred to the Caritas who employs these people, I would like to add to you that it was precisely you from the government parties who have made it more difficult for these jobs in recent years, which have made it difficult for students to have a pension relationship with students. But now put yourself here and say that should be easier. This is a double-duty policy! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rosemarie Bauer.]] That is hypocritical, and it is hypocritical to the square, Mrs Bauer! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We want a serious debate on this. And here I quite agree with Mr Haider, with whom I do not really have much in common politically otherwise: Deideologise this debate! But unlike Mr Haider, I say: It is not just about the children, it is about revitalizing relations. It is because the children have something of their parents, that the fathers also have some of their children, and the children also have something of their fathers. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] And, of course, relations between children and parents, especially mothers, must also become viable. But if you take this seriously, you have to think a lot more! There you have to go into the debate, how we can create opportunities and time for relations. It is not only about the first one and a half years of the child, it is about a much longer period in which parents are still struggling because they do not have this opportunity because the framework conditions that would allow this are not given! Ladies and gentlemen! If you really want to do something for parents, for children, please do not distribute sugar, but have a serious debate on how the relevant framework conditions could be created. In this respect, however, you have remained guilty of all the answers in recent years!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e3976	Mrs Federal Minister Mag has spoken. Prammer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e3997	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to take up a few sentences that have been said in this House today, and I would like to highlight them from the point of view of a general gender democracy to which we want to move. [[Intercession with the liberals.]] It has been said that society has changed. – Yes, ladies and gentlemen, society has changed – and above all, just over 50 percent of this society has changed, namely the women. The women were incredibly flexible, mobile and mobile in the last 20, 30 years. They have responded that the economy has not moved. To date, the other half of society has not felt the need to also move, to also learn to also take changes in the purchase, in the interest of this society. And this society consists of men, women and, above all, many small, young men and women, namely the children. That's what's said, and that's what the families need. And I fully agree with Mr Oellinger. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] We need framework conditions that make it possible to live with the families as well. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Those who have actually remained guilty to us, and to this day, are the economics, ladies and gentlemen. We have often tried to exercise the right to part-time work and to return to full-time work. In other countries, there are these possibilities very well, and there you can see quite clearly that life in families is better, that the co-existence has improved, that birth rates are higher – if this is to be a criterion – and much more. And these are the challenges we face. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I quite agree that changes are necessary in the current karenz money regime, because it is far too rigid. The parents must have the opportunity to rethink themselves again during the karenz period, to rethink whether perhaps even a certain period of time the man stays at home with the child or whether one should change to part-time care and so on. I do not need to say anything more about what it means to give up income, to lose income when children are there, because this has been very clearly explained by Mrs Mertel. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm ready to discuss family benefits at any time, but: Family benefits are the one thing – karenz money is another. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Today everything is on the women's shoulders. At the same time, there is always a difference between "housewives" and "employed". I don't distinguish like that! I myself have lived a life in which I have gone through all phases: I was a single-schooler, I was married and at home with a child, and I immediately took up work with another child. So I know what I'm talking about. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] I was a housewife for six years. [[Abg. Smoking Callat: Did you work at the time?]] I have worked, of course, and you will not believe it, Mrs Rauch-Kallat, I have done housework and child rearing during my work. Imagine that! However, at another time. That is what it looks like under these conditions! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dec In my opinion, the solution to puzzles is quite clear: We must align society in such a way that it is possible for men and women to have fathers and mothers that parents and their children have the best possible life. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to make a few more points because this is a heart concern to me. Although I have almost grown-up children, I still have children. All these children – including mine – are better than their reputation, Mr. Dr. Haider, and I do not let anything come about the children in Austria! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: I didn't say anything!]] The children are fine, and we have everything to do, to promote and support these children. There are no parents who consciously and deliberately leave their children behind or do not care for them accordingly. But where this happens, it is bad, and there the state must also intervene and provide supportive measures, above all the parents also support. But the assumption that the child is not in order, so to speak, because the woman was employed, I do not let it apply! No, I just don't let that apply! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: I don't doubt that your children are all right! That does not allow any conclusion on you yet.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It's good to have this discussion...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e4124	Ladies and gentlemen, please pay attention to the speaking time. Mrs Federal Minister. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That was a Freud's promise! Prammer, get back to the deputies bank!]] - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e4150	My final sentence: This issue requires more than one hour.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e4181	Next speaker is Mrs Gatterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e4202	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Carnation money for all mothers or fathers is an urgent necessary step towards more social justice. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mertel: This would be a social benefit from FLAF – you were always against it]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Recently, Mr Rosemarie Bauer and Mr Bartenstein have explained the question of funding in detail, the benefit of the benefit has become a family benefit. If the family ministry is financed to more than two thirds, it can no longer be said that it is a social benefit. You said we said that social benefits should not be financed by the Ministry of Family Affairs: In reality, this has been done for a long time! It is not just a social benefit today, but above all a family benefit, and that is why the ÖVP is in favour of having a care allowance for all mothers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Because the only difference that exists now lies in the claim. Who falls through the social network? Mrs. Dr. Mertel, I also have three examples: I have the example of 19-year-old Maturantin Ulla N., who is looking for work after Matura and becomes pregnant. The father doesn't want to know anything about the relationship. She has no claim. Her parents are divorced, she has no support to expect from there either. She decides for the child. Is it socially fair for us to exclude this student or maturant? [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Mrs. Mertel says it's fair!]] A second example is a 22-year-old student who becomes unwantedly pregnant. The father is also a student. They want to stay together, but both are only in training. She has always worked in summer and thought that will be rich, she will have the right to karenz support: She didn't! She says thank God, a more good parent, and the parents and grandparents support them. She also chose the child. But is that fair? Is this the idea of the self-employment of women that, in this situation, she is also dependent as a mother on her parents as a whole? [[Abg. Dr. Khol: No!]] I don't think so because we're always fighting for other conditions. After all, they're both single-parents! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The third example here is of course also the example of a housewife. She is 32 years old and lives in rural Carinthia. She left the profession after the second child. In her husband's operation, workers were dismantled, so she has to go back to work on the labour market. She's getting pregnant in this situation. She has paid for many years, including her husband, who is now unemployed. It falls through the social network. Here too I ask the SPÖ colleagues: Is that fair? [[Abg. Dr. Khol: No! Injustice!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Leikam.]] So these three examples show that the present situation is unsatisfactory. If the ÖGB women say karenz money for all is a social crime, then I say: The exclusion of a few, just social weak, that is the great social injustice! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] One feels here the Carinthian election campaign – a pity, I would have made an actual correction otherwise – because I would have liked Dr. Haider to continue reading from this folder. It is true that the ÖVP Carinthia very likely stands for the introduction of the care allowance, that the care allowance is the first step for all mothers and that our real objective is to expand it. I must also note that there is great confusion in the FPÖ. This applies not only to the financing that is presented differently every day, but also to Dr. Haider, for example, as Bundesobmann, is totally different from his family spokesperson. For example, it says – and I remind you here that the ÖVP of Carinthia is constantly being said, for Carinthia alone, it is not eligible for funding, we have to achieve a federal uniform scheme, even in order to ensure the mothers, for example, social security, et cetera, in order to bring this into a financial framework at all: It was clear from the outset that the costs of child care check have to be allocated between the federal government and countries. - That's what she says on 4 April. December. In Carinthia, head of state, Haider always says that there will be a Carinthian solution, but the differences in the calculation will go up to billions. He also... [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: But by federal means! With federal funds!]] Yeah, that's what this is about. He also seems to have federal funds. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's what ÖVP says! This is from the ÖVP! There are federal funds...!]] This is a united solution – we stand for it! I also have to say – because you are talking about writing copies here: We have taken a good model commissioned by Minister Bartenstein as a basis, and I quote here Mr Haller, according to which, with regard to the current demand of the FPÖ for a child care check of 5 700 S, the FPÖ model – and also the ÖVP model, I must say – is aimed at a basis of the Austrian Institute for Family Research. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Mr Stadler, where is Mr Meischberger?]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: In negotiations!]] That is to say, the FPÖ has not invented at all, but we have both taken as a basis for discussion and as a desirable goal a model which has been commissioned by the Ministry of Family Affairs. This must also be correct when one speaks of writing down and adopting ideas. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Mrs. Haller has been talking about the child care check for years! Mrs. Haller is the mother of the babysitting check!]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] I can only say to the ÖVP: For us, the proposal "Karenz money for all mothers" is just and financeable from the Ministry of Family Affairs. It is urgently necessary to take this step...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e4386	Madam President, I am sorry: the speaking time!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e4401	... for women and also in the sense of a better compatibility of family and work, because it is possible to earn it even during the karenz period.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e4431	The next speaker is Mrs Binder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e4453	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A serious debate is called for, and words like "protzen" and "theft" fall. Mrs. Moser wanted to "get rid of" children: I wonder if kindergartens and schools are waste disposal facilities. Mr Maitz asks my colleague Mertel if she has children. I believe that this question is absolutely unacceptable and unnecessary in this debate. Ladies and gentlemen, back to the current hour! Truly, the idea of "carence money for all" is very simple and at first glance tempting: All those who receive a child receive the pension, whether they have ever acquired a entitlement to claim by means of employment or not. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Dr. Maitz.]] Furthermore, there should be no ban on employment. With this, ladies and gentlemen, the karenz money in principle loses its character: It becomes a child's allowance, mother's allowance, educational allowance – as always you want to call it. ==References====External links== September 1998 – I quote –: "With the extension of the number of recipients of karenz money from the family compensation fund, the position of the active woman is in truth weakened and the amount of the karenz money to the indirect birth grant." Once again "Women's policy and family policy will be thrown into a pot". And on top of that: "The Minister of the Family should clearly confess that, in reality, he is seeking only a financial improvement for the families, but in no way does he intend to solve the problems of working women with a family. So this proposal by the Minister of Family is actually a ‘mogel pack’." . So the President of the Federal Women's Party of Christian Trade Unionists Christine Gubitzer. Ladies and gentlemen! The fact is that the pension fund is a substitute for extraordinary pay for work. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: And what does Mrs. Brinek say?]] Mrs. Brinek also says something different. The fact is that the financing is carried out by wage-related charges in the form of contributions to unemployment insurance and contributions to FLAF. Ladies and gentlemen! The children were always quoted. It's about a life with children, and it's about the quality of living together. In my opinion and in my opinion, the key to ensuring the existence of parents and children is employment. Carnation money for all means work for all! Employment is the prerequisite for the maintenance and design of social benefits. It is just as absurd to call for unemployment benefit for all. [[Call the ÖVP: Absurd?]] ==References====External links== In December 1998, ÖIF's press spokesperson said: "People should get money in the future because they have children and not because they are working." – This is also an approach, ladies and gentlemen, which I find almost shameless: Considering children as the basis of one's own security of life means at the same time relinquishing to stand on one's own legs. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Discriminating!]] Motherhood as a guarantee of personal financial security? [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Discriminating!]] [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: This is typical for trade unionists!]] Ladies and gentlemen! It really can't be! That cannot be the solution to the problem. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There is a wealth of proposals, ladies and gentlemen, how the alleged excess resources of the FLAF can be used meaningfully. This must be discussed. Some of them would, for example, be the relief of the work factor, the conversion into a value-added levy, the elimination of social hardships, the increase in the amount of care due at the compensation rate, the financial support of the division between parents in order to get closer to the living partnership and the obligation to provide care, or the full expansion of qualified and pedagogical childcare and much more, ladies and gentlemen. It's about justice – in which we all seem to agree, only the approach is one different. But it is also about equal rights, it is about partnership, and it is primarily about a life with children. It is about the compatibility of work and family, and the children must not become a game ball.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e4550	The next speaker is Mrs Madl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e4572	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Mrs Gatterer, you should have given the speech you gave – at least the first part – a long time ago. You would have had occasion to do so, Mrs Gatterer – and I come to you, Mrs Bauer – at the time when the liberals requested the childcare check in the committees and here in the National Council plenary! [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: But you wouldn't have heard it because you haven't been there for so long!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Go, Rosemarie!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You should have given this speech, which you late today, after many years! Her speech was, therefore, so embarrassing, Mrs Bauer, because she has sometimes listened to herself as if she had been written off by the speeches of the liberals from the Stenographical Protocols, especially as regards the point you were sorry for, that FLAF has always been used for non-FLAF expenditure. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rosemarie Bauer.]] I remember exactly – the calls are logged, Mrs Bauer: When we said that the FLAF is used for services that are not family policy services, you have called in: That's not true! Shit! - But that doesn't matter now. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: When? At what time?]] Today, you stand here and regret that FLAF has been burdened with FLAF services for years, and now you say we have to do something against it. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: Mrs. Colleague, you're talking about things! You weren't there yet!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] At the time when we liberals showed this, you should have been for it! – This is very, very embarrassing. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rosemarie Bauer.]] Speaking about child care check today here in the current hour, in which one cannot make decisions, this is really just a media slaughtering, with which the ÖVP is only trying to correct their failure in family policy in the last ten years perhaps. [[Complaints with the liberals]] Mrs Bauer, here in the current hour you can neither pass laws nor improve the situation for the Austrian families. Because you're to blame! The ÖVP is to blame! They asked: Who is to blame for the fact that there are 400 000 families living at the poverty line, that there are 1.1 million people at risk of poverty? [[Abg. Dr. Haider: That's right, Mr. Family Minister!]] Who is to blame for the fact that there are especially workers' families with children living at the poverty line? – The ÖVP is to blame! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Well, of course. The ÖVP with its missing family policy in recent years is to blame! We can also prove this: We want to introduce the childcare check, for example, in Carinthia, because the federal government was unable to do years ago what the liberals called for to introduce the childcare check! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rosemarie Bauer.]] There must, of course, be a pilot project in the country of Carinthia. Carinthia will probably become the first federal country in which a free provision check is actually introduced, Mrs. Bauer, for ÖVP heads of state have not managed to introduce a child care check for their federal state in ten years. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: (a pattern of such child care check to the height) Bravo! Bravo!]] The same applies to apprentice free trips, which have also been introduced in Carinthia by a Carinthian head of state Dr. Jörg Haider! [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: Who was the head of state?]] That's free policy! Do not demand anything outside and just talk here and then vote against it! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mrs Bauer! ==References== We had a meeting of the Family Committee on June last year. Mrs Haller brought in the child care check for the x-te time. Who was against it? – The ÖVP was opposed, although the feasibility study... [[Abg. Steibl: Because we want the karenz money for everyone!]] Here's the application! Application 644/A (E) was made on 23 March. It was negotiated in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection in June. ==References== You voted against the child care check here in plenary on July – a protocol! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Oh!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] ==References== July, last plenary session: National Council rejects application Haller to provide a babysitting check! Mrs. Colleague! Justification You're in front of the families for these acts! You don't need to justify yourself down here – we know you! [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: From family policy you don't understand anything, Mrs. Madl!]] I would like to tell you one thing, Mrs Colleague, since you are now so sorry about this situation - "Child care check" or "care allowance for all" is indeed an expression of the same thing, Mr Minister: [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: Begimmert is nothing at all! You don't understand the theme of the current hour!]] You could have found the partner in us for a long time! A care allowance for all – if you want to call it that way – or to introduce a babysitting check for all is one and the same. You could have decided with us for a long time, but the coalition fidelity has held you back here in this house! [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: Your head of state Haider could have decided this in Carinthia for a long time!]] With us Freedoms you could have decided this model for a long time!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e4823	The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e4851	Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mr President. High house! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You are torn back and forth between the sharp argument and the charm of the Minister!]] [[Further calls.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] The debate on the carnage money for all has something good in itself, at least insofar as the realization that the current situation is not satisfactory, as a common denominator, passes through the discussion. Only, Federal Minister Bartenstein, the conclusions that you and your group draw from them are great cows! For if something is socially dissatisfying, then the solution cannot be that we take the pot in our hands and distribute the money in this area even more than before from the bottom to the top. Because the real problem is that children are unbeggared and children's poverty. Unbehaviored children, which means that there are too few childcare facilities to combine work and care – point one – and child poverty means that family transfers are designed in such a way that they do not use anything where we would need them, we also pay them where they are not necessary. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] That's exactly the starting point for such a debate. For if you want to combine both family policy and women's policy as well as social policy, it is the most unacceptable means of simply introducing a linear transfer and then pretending to be the solution. My colleague, Mr Gatterer, has provided examples that were socially appealing, and I also believe that much more should be done there. But why you have to transfer 5 700 S to the highest categories of income, because a 19-year-old mother is not socially selfless and is unscrupulous, I do not see that! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum as well as on MEPs of the Greens.]] Unless, of course, it is said here that what is treacherously revealed in the discussion always again and again, when concentration fails, becomes apparent: that "all" are not men and women, but only women, unless one thinks that this is an interesting incentive – at least an incentive – to get out of work. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer:... Insanity, but you can't always men and women...!]] I am saying this with a certain degree of concern because, in the sense of the words from the right half of this House, I am obviously a socially damaged person, for my mother was working time of her life. I grew up next to a working mother, without having the subjective feeling that I have suffered a disadvantage from it! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum and SPÖ.]] On the contrary: I have experienced early on that a working mother can bring quite different qualities into education than one who lives exclusively on the domestic herd, who does not know the working world, therefore cannot give the children the companion whom one needs to grow up so much that at this stage one sees problems that are otherwise - shielded from the reality of life - not noticed and thus possibly continues itself role models which are the real evil of this problem. [[Accompaniment at the Liberal Forum]] Because – let's not think about it! –: As long as such an income shear prevails in the working world, as long as such a fixation is present in the minds and hearts on traditional role models, none of your solutions – and most importantly with a linear – will produce something. The expression "social security" does not appear in this model "cardiac money for all" so and so. If one still takes into account that the actual mistake which becomes visible here lies in social policy, namely in the all-or-no-non-principle, which sometimes destroys, that the compulsive linkage of social demands with previously inherent employment is the real problem, so that the 19-year-old Maturant, who has never been in the working world, of course does not have any claims in our construction, then I think it would be appropriate in this context, in particular, to approach himself constructively and positively to the concern of basic protection and to discuss this subject widely, instead of always killing it with the argumentative clause! I think that is an important point. The fact that contributions come exclusively from the working world is a screaming element of injustice for all, and here, in turn, only in the form of service providers' contributions. That's what you want now... – Federal Minister Bartenstein, intermediate calls from the government bank are at least unusual. [[Interference by Federal Minister Dr Bartenstein]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: But necessary for correcting!]] I don't want to measure you, but don't steal my short speaking time! That's the actual design mistake! Because to finance the carnation money of the 19-year-old Maturantin with employers' contributions, I think that's great cows. That is why, if it makes sense, it must be tax-financed, Mr Federal Minister. This must be financed from means of taxation and not exclusively from the labour market, as this will only increase the additional labour costs and result in negative effects on the employment situation. That's the jumping point! You're cleaning up the campaign! You make promises that you know you do not have to redeem them because you do not have a majority in this House. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] I don't think that's good, because that's how people are led astray, and that's very, very bad. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e4964	Mrs Langthaler is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e4985	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Of course, the election campaign has also begun in this House, and the debate has clearly shown this. On hardly any other subject, there are as large ideological scams as on family policy and karenz money. If one listens to the arguments of the two coalition partners in particular and tries to filter out an objective debate, it is clear that in some respects both are right, but in some respects I think they are completely wrong. Of course, the SPÖ is right that it must be a priority to create reconciliation between work and family, especially for women. Of course, Mrs Binder is right to say that karenz money by definition, as she said, is a substitute for an activity which one or woman cannot perform because of the care of a child. But, of course, the ÖVP is right to say that it is unreasonable for every ninth woman to be present without any regulations. Federal Minister! I ask you: Who has been in this government for years, and who is responsible, in particular, for the SPÖ Members, for the fact that there are a number of social injustices on the subject of karenz money? – I would just like to give you three examples, all of which you all know, and in which you have all agreed: First of all, the multiple discrimination against single parents, whether in the duration of the karenz period or in the increased karenz money. The second point is that the non-increasing of the pension fund, while all the other insurance benefits have been increased over and over the last few years. Third point: no independent claim of leave for fathers. All this has been known for years, but now that the election season is approaching, it is being pulled out. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The Greens' proposal, Mr Minister, on this very subject, which, according to your definition, is about "carrying money for all", is quite clear – one could still take a decision in this legislative period, perhaps also with a serious discussion and agreement of the SPÖ – because it provides for all those in training to be involved, which would really solve the question of the involvement of the students. The proposal "carnation money for all", as FPÖ and ÖVP see it, naturally poses a major problem, including from our point of view, namely that it can put pressure on women to push them out of the labour market completely. But the question of the students, Mrs Mertel, must be discussed. In my opinion, this problem must be resolved quite clearly even in this legislative period without ideological suffrages. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: I didn't vote against it!]] Minister! That is why I have also spoken because you are not only family ministers and youth ministers, but also environmental ministers. These three functions are actually meeting in one point, namely when it comes to discussing how to give the next generation the environment over. How to ensure that there are not only financial measures, infrastructure measures and, of course, financial security, but how can we also ensure that there is a possibility of bringing together environmental and social and family issues? Two days ago, Mr Minister, there was indeed a current decision in the Federal Government, and I missed your call. It has been carried out to graves by ecologizing the tax system before a serious debate has taken place here in this House at all. The proposals of the Tax Reform Commission and also of the Greens have clearly been aimed at trying to involve the family policy aspect and, above all, the question of children's rich families in this debate on ecobonus with simultaneous resource taxation. Minister! They also always claim that they think integrative and want to bring together the issues of family policy and environmental policy in their place, but to date they have remained guilty of how you deal with the fact that this Federal Government has apparently remained entirely guilty not only in the matter of rent money, but also, above all, in the matter of eco-tax. Where's your call, Minister? Where is your demand to introduce an eco-bonus, particularly in the field of family support, which is so encouraging, that you will at last tax the ever-cheating energy on the world market, reduce additional labour costs accordingly, make work cheaper, tax resources, and also bring in the money that comes in it to children's-rich families? [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: This is not the theme!]] This discussion, Mrs Bauer, is not only at present in such a debate, because it was also discussed in the Tax Reform Commission in such a way that there should be an eco-bonus especially for families with many children, so as not to lead to social injustices. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If you are always discussing only at the same fixed levels, today exclusively in the field of karenz money, because it is campaign opportunities, another time exclusively with regard to tax reform, because it is opportunistic, then you will never come to a solution that is really not only supported by a broad majority, but also benefiting from a broad majority in that country. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e5052	No one is reporting on this. This is the end of the current hour, and I thank the Federal Minister. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e5074	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the written communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e5150	As regards item 1 of today's agenda, namely the consideration of the petition of Mr Dr Kier on "recognition of the sign language", the necessary arrangements have been made to transfer the debate on this matter by sign interpreters, who will then take place on the Government Bank, to the sign language. Until then, however, it will take a little while for the Rules of Procedure to be clarified. Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e5171	In accordance with § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure request the written question 5344/J by Dr Kostelka and comrades to the Federal Chancellor concerning Austria's EU Presidency and the European Council of 11 and 12 before the entry into the agenda of today's meeting. In December 1998, it was urgently discussed in Vienna. This urgent procedure will be started at 3 p.m. in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e5196	I would also like to say that Mr Wabl has asked the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on Amendment 723/A (E) concerning the refusal of confidence to the Federal Minister for Defence of the State to extend a period of time until 19. In 1999 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative In this context, according to Article 43 of the Rules of Procedure, there is a request by five Members to hold a short debate on this request for a time limit. As we have just determined that there will be a urgent question at 3 p.m., the short debate will take place following the debate on the urgent question. The vote on the request for a deadline will take place immediately after the debate has been held. Amendments to the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e5226	On the agenda, on the one hand, I have a request from honourable Members. Stadler and comrades, on behalf of point 3 of today's agenda, and a publisher, propose to hold a debate on this motion for a resolution. On the other hand, Mr Kostelka, Mr Khol, tabled an amendment to the agenda today, namely an additional item on the agenda. On this amendment Dr. Kostelka, Dr. Khol, there is no desire for debate. As I have just told you, therefore, Mr Magistrate has power. Stadler raised written objections to the agenda issued, namely objections concerning item 3 of the agenda requested. If these objections are not joined, the National Council shall be informed of them. In the debate under § 50 of the Rules of Procedure, as always in such cases, I limit speaking time to 5 minutes and the number of speakers per club to a maximum of three. Mr Magnificent came to speak. Stadler. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e5260	Mr President. High house! Mr Kostelka, Dr. Khol, said quite correctly that we are calling for the agenda to be supplemented today, namely a point to be discussed in connection with item 3. We liberals have called for a subcommittee of the Constitutional Committee to be set up in order to discuss these matters in detail with regard to proposals for the Radio Law, which is now to be supplemented. – There was no consent to this! We then asked that today's debate, because it has a marathon day order, be held in 10 'Vienna hours', so that the opposition will have an opportunity to speak here at all. – There was no consent, no acceptance of the government fractions! But today, at a day-block time of 9 "Vienna hours", which you want to decide with a majority of two-thirds, the agenda will be supplemented, Mr Wabl. I have already told you at the Presidential Conference: They are pulled over the table by these government parties. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I don't know why you're there, but you're involved in – at the expense of the opposition fractions, each at the expense of parliamentarianism as a whole! For, indeed, parliamentarianism has experienced since this great coalition recognized that it can do everything with two-thirds majority, its swan singing. The vote will be taken at the next voting time. Because the government is going into clause, Parliament must delete session days! We have to address ourselves to the government; not the government is based on Parliament, but the government is determined when the meeting days are taking place. A session day was deleted in January. The opposition was split. The Greens and the so-called Liberals are always at the command of the government for the removal of session days – in turn at the expense of parliamentarianism, at the expense of the House! Of course, the two club members of the government groups are present immediately when their members of the government address the House to the same request. The debate today continues in the same way. Mr Kostelka, if this is to be a urgent question, please explain this to us today. It no longer even understands a journalist outside that this should be a urgent request. In view of the fact that the Federal Chancellor has a full calendar of appointments, it is necessary to misuse the Rules of Procedure, to bow to the Rules of Procedure and, with such a request from the German Chancellor, to ensure that the Federal Chancellor is able to carry out his urgent appointments, since Parliament has to address itself to the Government. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Parliament has to address itself to the government and not to the government after Parliament, but vice versa, Mr Schwarzenberger, for years to come, like the 1996 forest report, for example the 1997 Green Report, as well as all the opposition proposals. Ladies and gentlemen! As the family debate has just been held: It is pure hypocrisy to speak 5 minutes before the elections of family policy, while all the requests in the Family Committee are shubbled because they come from the opposition groups! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection does not even meet again, Mrs Bauer. He won't even meet again! The government is forcing what it wants on the agenda to do up to them, but what the opposition in the committees requires is irrelevant. It would be best to reduce Parliament to two government groups at all, one of which wants to go as quickly as possible and the other never again. That is how parliamentarianism looks in this House, ladies and gentlemen. [[New condolences with the liberals.]] This is the swan singing of parliamentarianism! This is the swan-song of parliamentarianism and the President-in-Office of the Council. Mr President. This is my criticism of your form of leadership. They are looking at how this Parliament is losing more and more rights, how this Parliament is increasingly dominated by the government and how it has to dance after the government pipe. Today's debate on the Federal Chancellor's statement on the EU Presidency, which, in order to maintain coalition peace, will also start the debate, shows. That's a whole new thing at all: There is a urgent question today, the Federal Chancellor makes a statement, and then the Vice-President is the first speaker in the debate. Members are no longer asked what they have to say on this issue. The government is also taking over Parliament! [[Abg. Leikam: 20 speakers!]] And finally, it turns out that the government is ruling this Parliament: This Parliament, represented by the two government parties with the active support of Greens and Liberals, has to dance after the pipe of the government. Ladies and gentlemen! Whenever you complain that you are being mistreated, that you no longer have rights in the house, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, then you must take your own nose! [[Abg. Leikam: 20 speakers are reported!]] They always play with you when it comes to the rights of this house. Then you are always there and can be pulled over the table, always in the hope that once there could be an ampel coalition – and you get it in the end by benevolent behavior. But you're going to be very shaky. Believe me! Mr Wabl! You will no longer experience this because you will no longer be part of this house. I don't know if this is a damage or a benefit. But what you have done in the last presidential conferences in favour of the government is rather to point out that it is a benefit. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] For example, I would expect you to support me that the Minister of the Interior will finally make a statement on how it is possible for the Ministry of the Interior to have a...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e5340	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e5356	... Car number of a perpetrator, a serious criminal, is known, but nothing has been done in this respect for months and years, while the media are already writing about it. This would, for example, be a question of urgent treatment here in the house. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That's why I'm looking for you today: You must pay attention to Parliament and ensure that this government finally recognises that it has to respect this Parliament!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e5395	The next speaker is Mr Kostelka. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e5416	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! With all due reluctance, I must point out that the Rules of Procedure also apply to the two government groups. It is our right to request the completion of the agenda, especially if we have good reasons to do so. These good reasons have been accepted by four of the five groups of the Presidents in respect of the Broadcasting Act, as it is in the end indisputable that the amendments to the Directives on the coordination of certain laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Members on the pursuit of television activity by 1. January next year will enter into force. We therefore have to make an adjustment to the Broadcasting Act this year. Today, the final meeting of the National Council is taking place before the end of the year, so it is useful and necessary to put this item on the agenda. This supplement is due to the fact that the Private Radio Act contains similar provisions, which are, of course, to be decided on this day too, because otherwise there would be a disparity between private radio and public broadcasting. It would mean that, at the beginning of the year, a conversion system for advertising rights, for advertising times in the ORF, did not apply to private radios. We do not want to see such a disparity between public broadcasting and private radios at the expense of private radios, and therefore it is imperative that both legislative drafts are on the agenda. Mr Stadler! The excitement is absolutely essential. We will also have to talk about the urgent question today. The fact that my group makes use of the rarely used privilege of bringing in a urgent one, you have to answer because in the presidential you were not prepared for another procedure. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Khol.]] In other words, this is in no way a misuse of the Rules of Procedure. [[Abg. May. Stadler: But yes!]] Mr Stadler, if my group presents a urgent question for the second time during this current legislative period, you will certainly not be able to speak of a misuse of the Rules of Procedure. However, what is to be found is that at the beginning of each plenary session you are now setting up an objection debate with clear arguments in order to talk about things that have nothing to do with the agenda and your real objections at all. I say the following to you: These tricks, these abuses of the Rules of Procedure, will no longer bring the Freedom Party out of its depth. I see that you are addressing all the methods, but today will certainly not be very meaningful and successful.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e5461	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Schweitzer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e5482	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Klubobmann Kostelka! The fact is that the debate on the revisions to be made to the Regional Radio Act and the Radio Law today has not been sufficiently conducted. Many suggestions that have come out of the review procedure were not even discussed. And that would be enough reason to set up an appropriate subcommittee so that these suggestions arising from the review procedure can be discussed accordingly. For example, it is true that the establishment of a media institution which is de facto – except for SPÖ – required by everyone is not included in the novel. It should be discussed, and the appropriate place for this would be a corresponding subcommittee. What is to be decided today is not really debated, ladies and gentlemen. If you, Mr Kostelka, are talking about an extension of advertising time, which is also to be decided, then at the same time you have to discuss a reduction in contributions. This debate has not taken place. These are issues on which a sufficient debate could be held in a subcommittee, and that is why this call is quite justified in decommissioning these points. A subcommittee would have its authority in this matter. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And now to that urgent request you're making today. Apart from the fact that this is a strange interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, it does not have that urgency, such as a debate on headlines such as: "Fuchs label was already known in March 1996. " [[The speaker holds a copy of the newspaper article mentioned above.]] It's writing weekly and daily! Obviously there is a record of a negotiating act showing that mark. Is that true? Isn't that true? – This is what interests the public, and it should be discussed. The Minister of the Interior should appear in this House and tell us if what was to be read at the beginning of this week in a weekly newspaper and can also be read today in a weekly newspaper, whose editor is the lawyer of the file note, and claims that this note is accompanied by the Fuchs label, a document known to the Ministry of the Interior since 1996. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Leikam.]] We should discuss this! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The Fuchs case is not something but the most discussed crime of the Second Republic, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e5534	Mr Schweitzer! We are going to talk about the call "for cause" in the presidency tomorrow, so I have to say quite correctly: Objections against item 3 of the agenda have nothing to do with commenting on the expediency of this or that urgent question. Please, ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking again.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e5552	Mr President. I was concerned to note that, in my opinion, it is urgently necessary to talk about the headlines that have been collated in the public, which, among other things, is said to have known that the mark of the most wanted criminal of the Second Republic has already been known since 1996. [[Abg. Arbitrators: He does not bring it over!]] We want to discuss this, and we should now consult the Minister of the Interior in a urgent question and not discuss a summit that was no one.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e5591	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Khol. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e5612	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The People's Party vehemently opposes the abolition of the law on the reorganisation of the ORF. We are in favour of strong public broadcasting with good development possibilities and therefore we want to have adopted the law today. [[Abg. Wabl: As long as it's black and red!]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] ==References== The European Union's television directive must be transposed on December this year. This television directive, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, contains a ban on broadcasting violence and pornography at a time when minors are watching television. They therefore object to our having this important provision from 1. It's coming into effect next year. We are against pornography and violence on television! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker.]] This Radio Law Novelle also ensures that the fourth radio programme of radio broadcasting is mainly blatant. We appreciate Blue Danube Radio, we appreciate this foreign language programme, and we therefore want to adopt this law today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In today's novelle, something is also regulated, which I have long complained of: a complaint for every listener and seer who has been violated by incorrect statements of fact in his rights. Citizens can now complain on their own and directly to the Austrian Radio Complaints Commission. The People's Party wishes to see this possibility of appeal from 1 January. This is why we want this law to be passed today. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] And since we are in favour of equal opportunities between the public-law ORF and the many culturally important regional radios and also identity-creating regional radios, we also want to decide today on the Regional Radio Act which gives regional radios, private radios, the same advertising possibilities as the ORF. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we are in favour of both laws being passed today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr President. Finally, I should like to point out that, according to Mr Kostelka, I was probably the only one to talk about this, and I would point out that it is up to the Bureau to keep the Rules of Procedure and remind the speakers to speak on the matter rather than on other matters.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e5691	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Barmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e5712	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! In particular, Mr Khol should be included in his last sentence, but it should also be said that no advice has been given to the Bureau from the speaker's desk, as you will certainly know by your participation in the presidency. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: But also that one does not say such a thing!]] Ladies and gentlemen! In addition, the Liberals, Mr Arbitrators, do not want to take note of the fact that a wild FPÖ now includes the Greens and the Liberals in its round table. [[Abg. Arbitrators: I don't have to take notice of anything!]] [[Abg. Arbitrator: You are a teacher!]] I also believe that the whole discussion about the Causa fox is unnecessary in so far as Mr Fuch's label since the registration of his vehicle has probably been at least as familiar as Mr Rosenstingl's mark. The difference is that fox is sitting in Austria and Rostingl is pacified. But that's the only difference! [[Cheerfulness and applause at the Liberal Forum and with representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] That is why I would like to refer to the item on the agenda, which is still to be extended, because the directive in question is not only important, Mr Stadler, with regard to the implementation of television, but also because it contains a ban on discriminatory advertising and thus also sexist advertising. [[Abg. May. Stadler: A special spirit flash he has never been!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: But better than the sweater!]] One last point, Mr Stadler: Just because your media speaker Meischberger today has to negotiate his own tax history before the OGH and there are no competent people in this field besides you, we will not hold or stop a debate. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e5839	The next speaker was Mrs Petrovic. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e5861	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Mr Khol, you can agree with the letter of the Rules of Procedure and still violate their spirit. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Ooh!]] And I think this is a very good thing. For the arrangement of today's agenda has been achieved by the fact that, as we know from the President, the Federal Chancellor, on the one hand, is speaking and replying to the European Parliament in the morning, and not to the Austrian Parliament – which was not possible in due time – but on the other hand, he wanted to make sure that, as soon as he is in Austria, he will be able to do so. That is the reason why this urgent question has been put, and not because it is so urgent and not because it is the most excellent instrument of the governmental parties! [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Is that your objection?]] Because you tell us on every occasion the things that the opposition for important...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e5900	Mrs. Dr. Petrovic! If the urgent question has not been raised in Mr Schweitzer's debate, it cannot be discussed in yours. We are now debating the decommissioning of Agenda items 3!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e5916	But overall, of course, it is already about respecting the spirit of the Rules of Procedure. If these Rules of Procedure are violated by the choice of instruments, I believe that there must also be the possibility of articulated in the plenary session. I think I see a connection between these two topics, because it is ultimately – we all know that – and you can say that quietly – also an art grip to request the decomposition of item 3 or any point to create space for others. This is also my problem with the freedom of movement. In principle, I share the view of the liberals that there are things that are much, much more urgent – not only about the investigations in the Causa letter bombs, but above all also about the neutrality threat posed by the Minister of Defence in connection with illegal arms exports. [[Call the ÖVP.]] That's all much more urgent! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But I do not really want to make the government parties happy not to talk about the ORF! For years, the total opposition has been said: It's the big ORF reform! But now Klubobmann Khol is worried about the future viability of the ORF and the possibilities to introduce a calculation of advertising times. My return question is: Why, Mr Klubobmann Khol, why, Mr Klubobmann Kostelka, are opposition applications for a much more comprehensive reform of the ORF in committee for over half a year without being dealt with? Why are you not prepared to talk about the private radio in a comprehensive way, in connection with private television, because it is actually in this area? – I do not want to spare the government parties today, because I believe that the shortcomings in media policy should be discussed in public today! [[Abg. Arbitrators: You can do that quietly!]] That is why I do not want this item to be withdrawn, although I find the procedure very, very difficult. I would also have seen the possibility of asking for a declaration from a Federal Minister as an additional point of today's agenda on these critical issues, and I would also have been in favour of the Minister of the Interior or, for our priority, of the Minister of Defence speaking on really a hundred times more recent questions here in plenary.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e5969	I now turn to Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e5991	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is not the first time that we have to talk about such things, that you, of the coalition parties, of the government parties – and this is significant for your policy – do not seriously, at all, do not take your task here in Parliament, namely to represent the people, the voters you have elected, to control the government, to make laws, to set initiatives, and not to play a performance aid from the Federal Government, ladies and gentlemen. That is precisely the case in all these cases, up to today's request for the Radio Law. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] For, Mr Khol, you represent with incredible drama why this has to be decided today and now. Since 1994, ladies and gentlemen, you know that the Broadcasting Act does not maintain the entire media landscape as it is designed in Austria. A recognition of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg has declared the radio monopoly inadmissible. For almost five years, you have had time to discuss these things here. But nothing has happened because you could not agree because your party political interests are opposed to a proper solution. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And now here, chicken-punch, you are making a request for this, but you are not able and ready to discuss it properly in Parliament. One could discuss this important matter, for which you yourself seem to have not found any solution for five years, for example in a subcommittee. That's why we are, ladies and gentlemen. You cannot push important things just because there is no agreement in the government on this, and then, if this agreement finally exists, vote on it without allowing a proper debate here in the National Council. But, ladies and gentlemen, this does not happen for the first time, as has been said. We are constantly struggling with such things, for example in the field of security policy. ==References== In March 1996, my group submitted a proposal on the re-regulation of Austrian security policy. [[Abg. Arbitrator: This is not broadcasting policy! Security applications are not broadcasting policy!]] In 1996, Mr Schieder! 1996! Eight requests, Mr Schieder, lie in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and are not being dealt with. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: But you didn't even request treatment!]] This 1996 request alone was postponed six times, Mr Kostelka – six times postponed! . because, as in the Broadcasting Act, we also want to wait for an agreement of the Federal Government and before the people's representatives can discuss it, ladies and gentlemen. These proposals are not even about legislative proposals, but only about motions for resolutions. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Leikam: 15 special sessions!]] Mr Leikam! You, too, are one of those who constantly remind themselves of activities and act as a great parliamentarian, also in your federal state. But where are you, when it comes to representing the interests of parliamentarians, the people's representatives, here? – There you are and you are only going through strange calls. We would expect you to take initiatives in this regard, for example in the area of security policy, on which Parliament should express an opinion. Since 1996, you have not even been able to carry out these things of appropriate treatment. This is even so far that the EIA also brings in its own initiatives in this committee, but it says immediately that they do not want to discuss them and, above all, do not want to vote on them. It's just a political gag. This will be an important initiative which will abuse Parliament for its internal weaknesses and problems, ladies and gentlemen. It is clear to me that when we put our finger on the wounds in your coalition, you are nervous and try to block everything. However, you will not succeed, ladies and gentlemen, because as a parliamentarian, the population demands that, even if you belong to the group of a government party, you carry out your mission, which you have under the constitution, to control the government, to set up your own initiatives and not to be the support of a federal government which is unable to solve the important problems in that country.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e6077	No one is reporting on this. That is why the debate is closed. We shall come to the vote, and we shall vote first of all on the request of the honourable Member. Stadler. I would ask those Members who wish to follow up the objections and therefore vote in favour of the decommissioning of Agenda item 3 from today's agenda to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority. In this respect, it remains on the agenda. Supplement and renewal of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e6110	We shall also vote on the request made by Dr Kostelka, Dr. Khol and Comrades to supplement the agenda with the report of the Constitutional Committee on the Federal Law amending the Regional Radio Act. A two-thirds majority is required for this supplement. In the event of a positive decision, this item shall be considered as 4. Agenda item included in the agenda and to be negotiated jointly with item 3. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree with Mr Kostelka's request, Dr. Khol, for a sign. – This is accepted with the required two-thirds majority. This will complement the agenda and the agenda items below will be re-arranged. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e6144	I would also like to sum up the debate on the points – and this is already the new line – 1 and 2, 3 and 4, 6 to 8, 9 and 10, 11 to 13, 14 and 15 as well as 16 to 18. Is there, on the other hand, an objection? [[Some SPÖ representatives are sending themselves to stand up from their seats.]] I would ask you to stand up to those who are against the fact that we are summarizing the points. – This is defined by common accord. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e6174	After consultation with the members of the Presidential Conference, in which there was no full agreement but agreement of four political groups, I suggest that, in the light of the views of these four political groups, a day-blocking period of 9 "Vienna hours" for all the agenda items of today's session, be decided for SPÖ 135 minutes, for the ÖVP 126 minutes, for the FPÖ 117 minutes, for the Liberal Forum and for the Greens per 81 minutes. Such a decision-making process requires a two-thirds majority, and I therefore call upon those ladies and gentlemen who stand for this 9 "Vienna hour" day-blocking period to give this sign. – This is decided with the required two-thirds majority. 1. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on Petitions No. 23 on the recognition of sign language, presented by the Member Dr. Volker Kier (1531 of the supplements) 2. Point Report and request of the Constitutional Committee on the draft Federal Law amending the Criminal Procedures Act and on the draft federal law amending the Civil Procedures Regulations (1530 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e6217	This brings us to points 1 and 2 of today's agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. I have already mentioned the transfer of the debate on these two agenda items by sign interpreters. I welcome the colleague and colleagues who will carry out this task. [[General condolences.]] [[On the government bank, two sign interpreters begin to transfer the debate to sign language.]] The first speaker is Mr Magistrate. Guggenberger. The speaking time was given 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e6260	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! – Contrary to my other exercise, I can also welcome those involved in the gallery very warmly to the House, and I can also particularly welcome the two sign interpreters. Anyone who has ever seen sign interpreters in their work can see how immensely impressive it is, how they transmit complex language forms, complex facts in such a way that they can understand the deaf people affected. Whoever needs proof, how important sign language is, only the lady and the Lord will have to watch here in the next few hours; they will provide this proof. Respect and appreciation for both of you! [[General condolences.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Signatures and petitions concerning disabled people have already led to very substantial legislative measures in this House several times. I should like to remind you, for example, that at the beginning of the 1990s the Austrian Civil Disabled Association collected around 60 000 signatures to ensure that care is taken in Austria. The legislator has taken up this request or request, and Austria was the first country in Europe in which a federal law on care funds or state pension laws were introduced. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] Two years ago, 48 000 signatures were collected and brought into this House in the form of a petition to achieve the creation of a law on equality. In addition, last July we amended the Federal Constitutional Act: We have added an article 7a to Article 7: No one is allowed to be disadvantaged because of his disability. The Federal Government, the Länder and the Communities are ready to take measures to avoid the disadvantages of people with disabilities in daily life. Now we have a petition again – brought in by Dr Kier and supported by the disabled speakers of all the parliamentary groups in this House. We will make a special effort to put as many points as possible of this petition into practice as we have succeeded in previous petitions. The first event was held in 1993, namely a survey on deafness here in the House. That was, as it were, a premiere, because at that time there were sign interpreters here in the House for the first time. In this survey a sentence has fallen which I can still remember well and which has impressed me very much. At that time, a participant of this survey referred to the question of a layman: Blindness must be the worst! Another participant in this survey has responded: Blindness separates people from things; But speech and deafness separate people from people! That is why I believe that speech and deafness, and thus being separated from people, is something that must be combated by all means. For this reason, sign language and other means of communication are particularly important. We should be particularly supportive of this, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with SPÖ and ÖVP as well as the Abg. May. Stoisits.]] Last week, in the context of the debate on the Law on Disability, it was discussed that the concept of "impaired" is actually unacceptable that it does not fit so properly because it addresses the whole human being. The Americans have in their vocabulary a word that fits better. They say "people with special needs" – people with special needs. Special needs also have deaf people, and in their demand programme they point to many of their needs. I would just like to deal with a few important demands of the programme of deaf people. One of their demands is, for example, early education. This is a requirement – and this must be said without playing the ball on to someone else – for whose fulfillment the countries are responsible. It is not now the constitutional competence of the House to take action in this area. The same applies even if the ORF requires more programs with subtitles. – But this demand is of course to be supported! The Federal Government has already made a very clear statement of this in its 1992 disability concept. However, the legal structure of the Austrian radio system does not allow, as you will all be sure, for the legislator to come up with the plan. On the part of the ORF, it is stated that there are 150 hours per month on broadcasts with subtitles, which is more than in other similar television stations in neighbouring countries. I give you the right that it is not enough for it to be more! We strongly supported everything that leads to it, only: We cannot take legal action in this regard. But again: They have our support, and we have already presented this in talks with the Austrian radio operators. I would now like to point out a few things that have already happened. I am head of a Federal Social Office, that of Tyrol, and I may say: We trained our employees in the sign language there – but not only in our Federal Social Office – years ago, so that deaf people can communicate with the employees of the Federal Social Offices in their own way. The Federal Social Offices offer a wide range of services. Finally, I should like to point out that the Federal Ministry of Labour, Health and Social Affairs is promoting the first Austrian sign language lexicon on CD-ROM. I believe that this is an extremely important measure which will represent a great help – we are convinced of it. [[Congratulation with SPÖ and ÖVP as well as the Abg. May. Stoisits.]] There are theoretical problems in many areas of administration, but in practice, our investigations show us a lot of understanding of this. The administrative procedure laws also allow us to communicate with sign interpreters. It is also in the judicial system, as Mr Michalek will certainly carry out a little later. I see. "The heart is full, the mouth is over." – I have overlooked that the light here has already begun to shine at the speaker’s desk. Finally, let me just make the following comment: There has already been a great deal of progress, but I give the right to all those who say that much more needs to be done than before. I can assure you: The Socialist Group of this House can be found on your side!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e6355	Ladies and gentlemen! The management of the ORF has informed me that it has certain difficulties in getting both interpreters to the picture. [[Two other sign interpreters stand right and left next to the speaker's desk and continue the transmission into the sign language.]] I would therefore suggest that both interpreters place themselves next to the speaker's desk. – May I ask you to stand down to the left and right next to the speaker’s seat. [[Call:The discharge has already taken place]] Then the redundancie must stand next to the speaker's seat. [[Call:There are already two there.]] Good. The next item is the report by Mrs Rauch-Kallat. A time limit of 8 minutes will be set on request. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e6398	Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mr President. High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen of the deaf, but also dear guests at the gallery! First of all, I would like to thank the members of the President-in-Office for putting this item on the agenda at the beginning of today's agenda, instead of as many important points at the end, which can only be dealt with at midnight, so that an important contribution can be made in public awareness-building to the concerns of deaf people. It is indeed God in this House, thanks to good tradition – and also the Austrian Federal Government acknowledges this – that concerns of disabled people are taken very seriously across party political borders and are also being persecuted in this House, just as NGOs and many other associations are doing that promote awareness-building for the needs of disabled people, such as the Special Olympics, an association that chairs Mayor Kröll as President. I like it that way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] "Hearless: Silence makes lonely," begins an article in the "Kurier". And that's what it says: "No phone, no radio, no music. No familiar voice. The noisy everyday life of the listeners with its fast, self-evident communication is a foreign country for the deaf. Obedience is a disability that you can't see. This is both advantages and disadvantages: Advantage, because you often ‘unacknowledged’? Life comes down, disadvantage, because it results in misunderstandings. Understanding problems will sometimes be with ‘deep’ by hearing people? as if the words were silent? and, "Dum? are ancient relatives. ==References====External links== 490 000 people with hearing impairments, some 8,000 of them completely deaf. The figures have increased especially in young people." - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen! It is known that in the case of deaf people, interpersonal communication – Mr. Guggenberger has already mentioned it – is problematic and that deafness is often lonely and distrustful. We must therefore do everything we can to overcome deafness and compensate for it with appropriate measures. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] There is an expert dispute, ladies and gentlemen, on whether the voice or sign language is better. The people concerned do not always agree. I personally experienced this more than 20 years ago in relation to a very different area, namely my blind daughter, who was not fully blind at that time, but who was hard to see. There are always problems in border cases where one asks whether the person concerned is deaf or deaf. I was told that my daughter should either learn to read in the normal black paper or learn the writing of the blind; both are not possible. If they both want to do, they will not control either. At the time, I had to fight the so-called experts – against the so-called experts – because I believe that the best experts are mostly parents because they have the most experience with their child – intensively fight for both to be made possible. It has worked, and my daughter – who is then completely blinded at the age of 20 – today is very happy that she has learned the Braille script in childhood and can now deal very well with it in adulthood. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the deaf should determine what they choose personally and that both should be possible, for they themselves know best what is good for them. [[In the case of the ÖVP, the members of the SPÖ and the Agg. May. Stoisits]] Ladies and gentlemen! The petition we are dealing with today is the result of the discussions on a petition that the deaf association has brought in. These consultations also had a very concrete result: They form the basis for a novel of both the criminal code and the civil procedure. I should also like to make a joint amendment which deals exclusively with a linguistic adjustment – that was the desire of the Ministry of Justice. The aim is to adapt the rules of the civil procedure to the wording of the criminal procedure. [[Quoted print version removed]] This is a formal decision-making process. I am very glad that this item can be adopted together with this petition today. But I would like to expressly say, ladies and gentlemen, that this is only a part of the demands of this petition that we all have to be concerned with meeting much more than this part, although not all the points of the demand programme can be dealt with here in this House. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is important to have the right to information on sign language and sign language communities, as well as on speaking and other possibilities, especially in the early education of parents of deaf children. They should also have the right to receive sign language lessons. There must be a greater offer. In all nine federal states, we will call for this claim to be implemented. The same applies, of course, to school and vocational training and, of course, also to the offer of sign interpreters and their training. You see, ladies and gentlemen, how great these interpreters are doing, how helpful this is for those concerned themselves. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP, with representatives of the SPÖ and the Liberal Forum.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, it is of course for us that public broadcasting offers a higher offer for deaf people: whether it be by subtitles or by sign interpreters. The cost issue must not be decisive alone. In this respect, we have an offer in Austria which is far from in line with the offer in England. There is a legal regime in England: 50 percent of the program, i.e. 670 hours a month, is adapted accordingly for the deaf. Although there is no legal regulation in the Netherlands, 50 per cent are also being adapted there for about 330 hours. Austria is 11 per cent and 150 hours below, but it is more ahead than the large Federal Republic of Germany, which adapts only 110 hours in both programmes, and still in front of Switzerland, which adapts 130 hours in a programme. I would ask, ladies and gentlemen, that we call on the ORF to increase its offer in this area, including in consignments such as Vera. Not only can it be a subtitle, but perhaps also a sign interpretation. We from the Austrian People's Party have recently equipped all our events with sign interpreters. We hope that other parties will do so in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e6545	The amendment, which Mrs Rauch-Kallat has read, is sufficiently supported and is included in the negotiations. I can ask the two sign speakers to go a meter closer to the speaker's desk; the ORF has told me that this would be cheaper. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Then let them give the speeches! It's much easier!]] Next, I give the floor to Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. Voluntarily desired speaking time: Six minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e6575	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I was invited yesterday to a Christmas celebration given by the President of the Federal Republic of Germany for disabled people. At this Christmas celebration, the President of the Federal Government spoke in full respect and admiration of how disabled people master their handicaps. – And that's right. It should be assumed that society is doing everything possible to make it easier for disabled people to overcome and deal with their handicaps. In fact, however, one often has the impression that society builds up obstacles that make it difficult for disabled people to find themselves in daily life, or does not break down existing barriers. Today we are discussing the situation of deaf, deaf people, their struggle to find themselves in life, and their struggle for the sign language to be introduced. It is also surprising that since 1993 – at the last time we discussed this issue – practically nothing has changed. I have to tell you, Mr Guggenberger – unfortunately he is not in the hall now, Mrs Rauch-Kallat – that: You have kept giving beautiful Sunday speeches here in Parliament, but you have not contributed to improving the situation over the past few years. Mrs Rauch-Kallat pointed out that there is now a sign interpretation at the ÖVP events. To this end, I would like to say: For years – the liberals were the first party – we have been adding a sign interpretation to our Federal Party Conferences, New Year's Meetings and so on. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I remember that this was still thought of by other parties at the time. That is to say, there is no reason at all for the government parties to take action in this respect. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Karlsson.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Government and the Federal Government! I blame you for always being the first to decide on international resolutions or to bring them into national law, but when it comes to disabled people, they are sparse. There is a 1988 UN resolution, which recommends that all Member States recognise the sign language. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The European Parliament has also recommended recognition of sign language to EU Member States, only: In Austria, however, nothing has happened at all! ==References== This resolution of the European Parliament has been repeated this November 1998, i.e. this year. – This means that the Austrian Parliament would have needed sufficient action. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In Holland, for example, there is already bilingual teaching in all schools – but with us, the Minister of Education stands deaf. Since 1993, despite all the resolutions, despite all the fine speeches, there has been nothing at all that would have taken us a step further. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The Minister for Education is not here today to participate in this discussion – I think it is not even a representative of the Ministry of Education here – so I ask Mrs Rauch-Kallat: Put a little pressure on the Minister of Education to assume that she is promoting bilingual education. I mean, he's really necessary! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You can see here in Parliament how important the sign interpretation is. I do not think anyone in the first or second gallery could understand the voice, but they can only follow the discussion with the help of the sign interpreter. In schools, ladies and gentlemen, in which integration has taken a large part – that is also good – the problem has multiplied, because children with hearing disabilities are sometimes unable to follow lessons. And there is a need to introduce a sign interpretation to bet these shortcomings. [[Congratulations with the liberals as well as condolences at the gallery.]] Mrs Rauch-Kallat mentioned that part of the resolution has been fulfilled. To this end, I would like to say: A maximum of 1 promill has been fulfilled, and that's exactly what's already been done. In the Penal Code, a sign interpreter had not been recruited, but, of course, every judge has taught a sign interpreter, for what else should he have done to someone who does not hear? – That is, we will decide something in reality. A little bit about the ORF: I really would have expected more pressure to be exerted on the ORF. In the next item on the agenda, we decide, for example, that the ORF can achieve more revenue from advertising – it can do more "cash" – and instead of making the condition to carry more broadcasts with sign interpreters, one has simply overlooked this. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The ORF can use more time for advertising in the future, but whether there are more broadcasts for the deaf, is only in the ORF’s discretion – and we do not agree with that in any case. I would now like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I hope that you too will support this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e6738	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Partik-Pablé has just been put forward with sufficient support and is included in the negotiations. I now give the floor to Mr Dr Kier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e6762	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! It fills one with great joy if, on the basis of a petition which has been filed and in respect of which it is not quite certain whether it will also suffer the fate of many petitions, namely that, although it is being negotiated, it does not lead to any result, if, on the basis of a petition, a five-party agreement is reached expressly in two essential procedural laws of the Republic, namely, in the Criminal Code and in the Civil Procedure, the acquisition of sign interpreters. In contrast to my previous speaker, I think this is a milestone. I already admit: It was also so far that interpreters were drawn – this is gratifying and a proof of a moving and warm-hearted justice – but the difference is a quantum leap, namely whether the law contains an explicit order or whether it is left to the credit of the negotiator judge. Among other things, the present petition is to recognize the sign language as a language. And the anchoring of the sign interpreter in the criminal procedure and in the civil procedural order is a de facto recognition in two essential procedural laws. This is a milestone on the way to the recognition of the sign as a language! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum and SPÖ.]] This one seems to be small success, now having something in the law, which was some of the practice, is a developmental step. I would therefore like to point out now that my colleague Stoisits and I will jointly present a motion for a resolution calling on the Federal Government to set up a working group dealing with the legal problem of the recognition of such a language. I am quite sure that there will still be some prejudices to overcome; Prejudices, but also a way of thinking that remained in the yesterday. The Ministry of Education has expressed in its opinion on this claim that a language can only be recognised if this language can also be assigned to an ethnic minority or group. – I think this is a mistake! A language and its importance cannot depend on whether there is a group of people who speak it – if there is a language that operates far beyond such boundaries, which does not adhere to characteristics such as race, gender or descent, but is a means of communication that has been developed to bring together people who are deaf. [[Accompaniment at the Liberal Forum]] I mean, there will have to be other legal possibilities to recognize such a language as only the historically bound path of an ethnic minority, which one would then have to define artificially and which, as I think, would not be defined. According to which ethnic categories should the deaf be classified? I therefore believe that perhaps the Ministry of Education's argument was well-intentioned, but it shows a wrong course. We must recognise such languages beyond this border. That is why the amendment tabled by Mrs Rauch-Kallat is also more important than it seems. The application concerns linguistic improvements in the Civil Procedure. That the words "tub, mute or deaf" are now replaced by "heardless or mute" is an enormous progress at the linguistic level. And: Language creates consciousness. This means in this case that the words "tub, mute or deaf" in the old formulations of the Civil Procedure will now disappear from the law. I remember how often I have experienced that my deaf friends were indignant when they were referred to as "dustry"; personally hurt because they spoke because they could understand because they were not stupid. Then: The arrogance of the hearers is only to connect "stupid" with speech! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the SPÖ and the Greens.]] It is therefore also valuable for the five-party agreement on the motion for a resolution which calls on the Federal Government to present further developed reports until the middle of the year, although not very soothing for an opposition. We know: The middle of next year will be marked by a completely different sign than to present a report on deaf people here in this House. We will then find ourselves in multiple elections, and the government parties will not take this seriously at this stage, as I am so sorry, because the issue is too promising to take votes. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreider: Here you go!]] [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: Mr. Kier!]] – I am saying this with this clarity, because I believe that it will come this way. If you teach me a better one by discussing here in June 1999 a consistent report on improving the situation of deaf people, I will apologise to you. [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: That was unfair now!]] Until then, however, I fear that my prediction will come true. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] The petition has contained more than we are going to decide today. The question of early education, the question of schooling, the question of vocational training, which is, in this order, key questions. If an growing young person does not already get language in the phase of his early childhood to communicate, he cannot learn well. If he is not integrated in the school and may have language, he cannot unfold. If he can't get professional training, he can't get through later. The task of society is to create equal opportunities for deaf people. The problem of these people is not visible; they do not carry it outside. These people, if we don't promote them, are really stupid in this sense, because we're making them mute. Therefore, the right to early education, school and vocational training is crucial. Whether this may be in the individual case of the country or the federal case: It must be all ours! If it is capable of majority in this country, then the land days will also take appropriate decisions. If the National Council is clearly positioning itself on this issue, it will not be possible to stand up to such a hard-hearted countryman to vote against it on a permanent basis. Why should not also be in rural areas Five-party or four-party agreements – depending on the number of parties represented there; in most cases, depending on the justice of the right to vote – will result in unanimous decisions if they are possible here in the House today? Let me conclude by saying: Austrian radio is already a disappointment! Even though he is famous, there's a lot to do: He's not making enough! All that has already happened is to see positive – I do not want something to be taken back – but it is not enough. If we want to take deaf people seriously in every respect and integrate them in every respect, we must make them participate in the greatest possible political life. In this understanding, the Liberal Forum is also committed to the use of sign interpreters at its own events. But that's not the solution yet. In this case, for example, the solution would be that political discussions on television are no longer possible at all without the use of a sign interpretation. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] The point that we should have reached would be that, in the case of no broadcast window, which from its structure is suitable for using sign interpretations, it would be more imaginable for listeners to call on television and ask why no sign interpretation is in use. . I believe that a further path must be taken until this point is reached. Public broadcasting should not wait until it is requested by the National Council. He should recognize this as a public-law task himself. And since it is also fee-financed, the financial argument should not be contrary either. In this sense, I hope that this appeal, which I am referring from this pult to broadcasting, will be successful, because direct access is actually not available in reality – but human access would have to be sufficient. Does it always have to be a law order when it comes to doing something that everyone calls right? - I doubt it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e6858	Mrs Mag. Stoisits. Madam honourable Member, you have wished for a speaking time of 5 minutes. [[Abg. May. Stoisits: 5 minutes only, oye!]] You can also have more. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e6887	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am particularly sorry that Theresia Haidlmayr can't be here today – she's sick, that's why – because Theresia Haidlmayr is the person who personally has made me more sensitive to the problems of deaf people. I am therefore somewhat affected by the situation here today, because I experience something for the first time today: that the public in the National Council, which is visitors, can express their congratulations without the President’s ostracism. This cannot be heard by people who are not allowed to clap – but you can! That touches me, I think that's great. I think it is an extraordinary situation for you that you have, as it were, an advantage. It's a very small one, but it makes me thinkful. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! By Theresia Haidlmayr, I have also heard for the first time the expression "people with special needs" already used by Mr Guggenberger today – that is true, I honestly say that. I find this English expression to be the best summary, as the best expression when it comes to people who are different from us – unlike we see, that is, people who are different from us who are hearing; this refers to a variety of handicaps. That is why I am pleased that I have heard many of the previous speakers today, that even more needs to be done – and that what is decided by all the parties together today is only one single step, ladies and gentlemen. All of this is supported, and the Socialist Group has announced and Mrs Rauch-Kallat for the ÖVP has announced that more will be done. But allow me, as a member of the opposition, to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, the question: When? – People don’t care what you’re saying here, but people are primarily interested in what you’re doing. The discussion on the recognition of the sign language – I have been in the National Council for a few years now and I have already experienced the debate, which was also interpreted in sign language at that time – and these promises, Mr Guggenberger, have already been made. But I do not want to repeat what Mr Kier and Mr Partik-Pablé have said today. With all the appreciation of what is decided today, I would like to give a brief overview of what it is like in other countries, even if it is due to the 5 minutes limit on speaking time, so that we Austrian Members do not believe that we are deciding something special today. What is being carried out today is the lowest level when you see it in European perspective. For example, in Denmark, ladies and gentlemen, the Danish sign language is the first language for all school levels for deaf or hearing-damaged children, and the spoken Danish is, of course, the second language. – So we are far away! In the Netherlands, the government set up a Commission in 1996 which presented a report in June 1997 in which it clearly and clearly recommended the recognition of the Dutch sign language as a language. In Switzerland, the Federal Council approved a unanimous request passed on to it by the National and by the Stand-at-Ständerat, which – I do not read now, because it would take too long – corresponds to a factual recognition of the sign language. In Finland, the right to use sign language has been enshrined in the Finnish Constitution since 1955. – And this list is not yet complete, because it does not yet cover all of Europe. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Guggenberger.]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, today may be an important day, but it is certainly not the most important day for deaf or hearing-damaged people. It must continue, and that is why we have tabled a motion for a resolution together with the Liberal Group - Dr Kier has already pointed this out. It is about concrete results, and it is about the Commission, which will meet by the middle of next year, also having a concrete mission. And a concrete concern for the deaf is the recognition of their language as an official language. That is why I am now reading the motion for a resolution that Dr Kier has already put forward in the broad outlines. [[Abg. May. Guggenberger: That's what you're bringing in 5 minutes before!]] We would like them to carry it with us, because it is really about this concern. [[Quoted print version removed]] Legal recognition of sign language – this is the key point! I am quite aware of the right to one's own native language for ethnic minorities, and I am therefore aware that these are really two or two shoes at the legal level. But this should not be used for another six years or another ten years as an excuse for not finding your concern – in the truest sense of the word – to be heard. That is why I ask you to agree to this motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e6959	The motion for a resolution, which Mrs Stoisits has just read, is sufficiently supported and is included in the negotiations. I now speak as next speaker, Mrs Povysil. The desired speaking time is 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e6983	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Welcome! I also warmly welcome the two signers today, and I am really pleased that today they for the first time also offer deaf people the opportunity to participate in this event on parliamentary issues. [[Complaints with the liberals]] [[Abg. Arbitrator: This is not for the first time!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Oh, yes, in the high house already!]] [[Contradiction of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: I missed that!]] You all know, but I would like to tell the honourable Member once again how many deaf people there are in the EU countries. There are as many as the population of Ireland. In Austria, there are 1 permill of deaf people, which are about 8,000 people. It is only always forgotten that the environment of the deaf is a much greater one, that relatives, colleagues, parents, children are involved in the problem of deaf people – a circumstance that is most often ignored. I'm a doctor and I'm very often in contact with Dr. Fellinger, who runs the deaf centre in Linz. That's why I know: The deaf are a group that is very difficult to provide medically, simply for the reason that there are very few doctors who can actually communicate with them. And they especially tend to retreat to their own world and within their own group. The suicide rate among the deaf is particularly high. Communication and real social integration are very important health and social concerns. And I must say the same as many of my previous speakers, especially those of the opposition parties: The fact that the sign language is still not legally anchored is a fact that simply cannot be accepted! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Especially deaf people have a right to communicate in their own language – like all other people and like all other groups of people and all other minorities. And here, the ÖVP is really responsible for matters. But there are only Sunday speeches, and it really does not change in the given state for years! [[New condolences with the liberals.]] To ensure that this group of people really comes to its right, so that people know what legal possibilities they have, I have also sent a question to Mr National Council President Fischer on this matter. In the US, for example, it is possible for most of the news broadcasts to track current messages by a sign interpreter or by subtitling. With us in the ORF there is only the show "Wochenschau". This is the only show with sign interpretation. And there are also programmes such as "Universitum", "Austria-Image", "Report", "Am Schauplatz" and a few more that are equipped with referenceable subtitles. Further news broadcasts, such as "Hohes Haus", a broadcast about the parliamentary event, or live reports from the High House are simply not accessible to the deaf. It is possible – and this has been told to me by President Fischer – to access the Stenographical Protocols via the Internet, but, ladies and gentlemen, not every deaf person has Internet! And you also know quite well that there are major delays in accessing the Internet. Especially deaf people need our common special political commitment to be able to integrate into our world. Especially deaf people need their own language, and they need, ladies and gentlemen, specially trained teachers who teach them this language. However, there is only one university course in Graz, which teaches such teachers. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Especially deaf people need their own funding and their own, very special support at universities. Especially deaf children need our help in education in order to really integrate into our world. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm calling on you to not just swing on Sunday's speeches. I ask you: Help all together so that the deaf do not drift into their own world again and again, as they themselves know, but allow them – as well as other minorities – truly social communication and social integration! [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: I don't know!]] There is only one world, ladies and gentlemen, and that is our common!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e7089	The last speaker in this debate is Mr Magistrate. Barmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e7110	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have, of course, thought about something special for today. I'm sorry if I'm going to be a little tribal, but actually it's got to work well. Your greeting should actually look something like that in your language. [[The speaker makes some gestures in the sign language.]] [[We welcome the Liberal Forum, as well as the representatives of SPÖ, ÖVP and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is an important step in the area of court proceedings that the sign language is recognized as a language. But there is always a discussion about what is needed, for example, in means of communication for the deaf and what can or can not be used for expenses at financial offices. This would also be something which could be directly initiated by the Federal Government or by the Minister of Finance without a legislative mandate within the meaning of a unification within Austria. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The field of political activity in this context is far. As Mr Kier has already referred to the national aspects, I would like to draw attention to a resolution of the European Parliament of 18 May. In November 1998, in particular, it was pointed out that only four of the 15 EU Member States have recognized the sign language as their own language and that it is in our society, above all, about access to information and that it is in fact lacking. In the field of audio-visual means, we have not respected the right to information for the deaf, and I also do not want to agree with Mr Guggenberger that the ORF is so easy to leave out of the debate. [[Abg. May. Guggenberger: I said that there is no law!]] I know, I quote. You're not wrong, because you said: We cannot take legal measures here in relation to the ORF. I believe that this field could also be stressed, especially because, interestingly, my previous speaker has let a concept of integration flash through here, which in other cases she completely lacks. But it is never too late to learn something, even for Mrs Povysil. [[Abg. Scheibner: Stop your polemics! Once a theme without polemics! Incredible!]] It is about that, if we consider integration to be a necessary fundamental right, these measures and these basic values will at least be included in the discussion in other areas. At least let it flow in! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] But when it comes to information, at the end of the Austrian Presidency in the context of the European Union, ladies and gentlemen, at least seven different incompatible text telephone systems are being used in the European Union and it would also be a priority to unite the level at European level in order to make information available to the deaf at all via telephone. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In this resolution of the European Parliament, it is also the speech of appropriate legislation that allows for the translation into sign language to be guaranteed at broadcasting stations – not "as far as possible" or perhaps "recommended", but that it is "guaranteed"! This is something that is still missing in Austrian law and which could be decided here in the National Council. In that respect, ladies and gentlemen, today's requests are an important step, but hopefully they are only a first step. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e7192	There is no more word message for this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. I would ask you to take the seats because we are now starting to vote. We shall vote separately on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we are voting on the resolution annexed to the Committee's motion for a resolution in 1531. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this resolution to announce this by a corresponding sign. This resolution was adopted unanimously. (E 151.) We are now voting on the request of the Constitutional Committee to take note of its report 1531 of the supplements. Whoever is in favour of receiving this report may give a sign of approval. – This report has also been adopted unanimously. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution by Mr Partik-Pablé and Mr Comrades on the comprehensive integration of deaf citizens. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: This is the practice! There you sit down! They're always just Sunday's speeches!]] – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: The introduction of sign language in schools – you reject it!]] [[Call to the ÖVP:Importantty!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That's not a big deal! What you're doing is just a hypocrisy!]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: This is a double-soil of the ÖVP! Belief has been playful for a long time!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: This is the biggest hypocrisy I've ever had!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would ask you to be able to carry out the voting process in peace. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Stoisits, Dr. Kier and comrades on the recognition of sign language. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. This motion for a resolution is rejected. We now come to the vote on the draft federal law amending the criminal code, including title and receipt, Appendix 1, in 1530 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this draft law to have a sign of approval. – Consent is unanimous. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to the draft at third reading to give an appropriate sign. The draft was adopted at third reading, once again unanimously here. We are now voting on the draft federal law amending the Civil Procedures Act, including title and receipt, Appendix 2, in 1530 of the Supplements. The Members of Parliament have smoke-callat, Mag. Guggenberger, Dr. Kier, Mag. Stoisits, Dr. Count and comrades submitted an amendment. In view of the fact that there is only one amendment tabled, I shall immediately refer to the draft law and the title and receipt in the version of the Committee's report, Appendix 2, in 1530 of the Supplements, taking account of the amendment tabled by Mrs Rauch-Kallat, Mag. Guggenberger, Dr. Kier, Mag. Stoisits, Dr. Graf and Comrades concerning Article I(1) § 185 para. 1a vote. If you agree to this draft, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This draft was adopted unanimously. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to the draft at third reading to have a sign of approval. – Consent is unanimous. The draft was also adopted at third reading. The two first items of the agenda have been completed. I think I can speak on your behalf, ladies and gentlemen, if I am particularly grateful to the sign speakers. [[General condolences.]] These two ladies and gentlemen have made it possible for you, ladies and gentlemen at the balcony, to follow this meeting, and I would also like to thank you for taking part in this meeting and wish you all the best for your life course. [[General condolences.]] [[Some of the delegates rise from the squares and give acclaim towards the gallery.]] [[Visitors at the gallery express their condolences in the sign language.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol is following this gesture.]] 3rd. Point report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (1520 of the Supplements): The Federal Act amending the Radio Law and the Novelle Radio Law 1993 (1563 of the Supplements) 4. Point report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (1521 of the Supplements): Federal Act amending the Regional Radio Act (1567 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e7368	We now come to the points 3 and 4 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are starting the debate with a speech by Mr Dr. Krüger. I would like to speak on behalf of the Group of the Six minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e7395	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The Committee's deliberations on the Novelle of the Radio Law and the Regional Radio Act and the way in which these Committee deliberations took place, the way in which the review procedure took place, the way in which amendments were introduced at the last moment by the Coalition Parties, the way in which all three legislative instruments, i.e. broadcasting law, private radio law, novelle and cable and satellite broadcasting law, were negotiated and decided in one way – they were then, as they were then known to be separate and partly included in the final part – in other words, the nature of the Committee's deliberations and the procedure preceding today's decision-making, is actually a substitute for how to operate media policy in Austria by the Government Parties, ladies and gentlemen: Pure Management by Chaos! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! You do not need to be ashamed that you allowed private radio a few years ago, because all steps towards liberalising media policy, in the direction of a private sector in the broadcasting sector, are not due to your vote, but only to various decisions of the Constitutional Court. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I would like to give you a very special example which, as I believe, impressively demonstrates your complete inactivity in the field of media activity, in the area of liberalisation. The Constitutional Court of Justice may, of course, only repeal laws on the grounds of constitutional illegality or regulations on the grounds of illegality. When it comes to the simple inactivity of the government, the government, it can do nothing at all. Mr. Schieder! I quote for you externally from the knowledge of the procedure that at the time the "Kronen Zeitung" has worked out in her efforts to get access to private television. The Constitutional Court said: Yes, of course, the legal situation in Austria is massively illegal. The fundamental rights of freedom of expression and therefore the fundamental right to television event freedom and radio freedom are, of course, seriously violated, but the Constitutional Court cannot substitute a complete inactivity of the legislator, but only in sub-areas as he has said. He is only there to punish partial inactivity of the legislator, but not complete inactivity. Ladies and gentlemen! That's supposed to make you think. This knowledge has been years back. In this the Constitutional Court of Justice has the complete inaction of the Federal Government, the complete inactivity of the legislator in the fulfilment of fundamental rights. Mr. Schieder! What explanation do you have for the fact that in the year 50 following the entry into force of the Declaration of Human Rights, the UN Charter, the fundamental rights in the points of media freedom and freedom of expression are still not implemented? Would you please explain yourself here? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] As we know, we negotiate and decide today the Radio Law Novelle – or will be passed by a majority – and at the same time the amendment of the Regional Radio Act. Unfortunately, God – I have already said this in the Committee's deliberations – did not once again make a big deal for you towards dualism between the public sector and the private sector. There is still no terrestrial television in Austria. If you say that a subcommittee is necessary, we will ask you to do so. But what have you prevented you from dealing with this matter, if even the media politicians in Albania are already ready to allow terrestrial television, ladies and gentlemen? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We are no longer the media Albanians of Europe, ladies and gentlemen. This would be an insult to Albania, which has already set a different legal standard in media policy. There is still no dualism of the public and private sector. Why? – There is still no terrestrial television. There is also no national radio frequency available to the private radio sector. Public broadcasting has four frequencies. You know the discussion about Blue Danube Radio. In my opinion, there are only two options: Either part of the Blue-Danube radio programme takes place in the other three programmes and one releases a frequency for the private sector – then one would have at least one : 1 overweight in favour of the Austrian radio or the public sector; that would be a minimum – or one would say that one cannot give up on a foreign-speaking radio – whereby I understand this approach in sub-areas – but then one must go here and stop the oversupply and the multi-supply of public-law broadcasting. If you set RDS on the RDS VHF band width today, then you will realize that the same program of the ORF will always sound and receive the same one again and again. This is proof of the overcapacity of Austrian broadcasting. Of course, from his point of view, he will not recommend that you release frequencies from the outset. [[Abg. Arbitrators: That's not true what you say!]] That's right. [[Abg. Dispensers: This is no proof!]] Yeah, that's right. [[Abg. Arbitrators: It is a matter of whether you hear it in the mountains or elsewhere!]] But, Mr Schieder, it is clear that there is no dualism in the private radio sector, and it is also clear that there is no media institution in Austria. The ÖVP, Mr Kukacka, as the media speaker of the Austrian People's Party, is for this, as is the media speaker of all the parties here in the house – with the exception of social democracy, it is against it. What is actually talking about a media institution that would also have a merger control that could be a licensing authority that could be a withdrawal authority? What's the point? Perhaps you can explain here why you have not reached agreement with your coalition partner in this regard. Well, what exactly is the matter with the novels? – On the one hand, it is about implementing the EU Directive. So far, so good. That's not a question at all. Our request has been to implement this novel, as far as the implementation of the EU Directive is concerned, to refer everything else to the Subcommittee and to make it really a successful new media law. It is about a massive expansion of advertising times in television broadcasts from 30 minutes in the weekly average to 35 minutes in the annual average and from 1st to 1st. January 2002 to 42 minutes, with the exception of Prime Time advertising from 2001 onwards. In other words, from 2001, you can advertise more than 20 percent of an hour in the most important advertising time. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, I also understand the role of the ORF, which says we need revenue from advertising in order to be able to make a proper programme and also to fulfil the public service broadcasting contract. But then, please, this can only be train by train with a fee reduction. If there is an extension of advertising times and thus an extension of income, then only train by train with a reduction of fees!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e7475	This is what Mr Arbitrator has to say. – honourable Member, do you want a 10 minute speaking time? [[Abg. Arbitrators: Set at least!]] I'll set up 10 minutes in every case. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e7505	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Whenever it comes to broadcasting policy, especially when it comes to television, there is a remarkable cognitive dissonance in our country or, if you want to, a separation between primary and secondary will. On the one hand, everyone admits to a strong Austrian, to a national television in the new European landscape, each one confesses to a strong public-law ORF. But when it comes to putting this confession into action with the second will, it is mostly lacking. I must say with all clarity to all those who are also disputing here in their personal opinion: If you expect strong Austrian life signs on the television sector in Europe, you must not blow out the light of life to the ORF with practical measures or make economic life difficult for it. – Unfortunately, this happens very often. If you want the ORF, you must also allow it to exist, also through the legislator. That is why I am very glad that, in addition to the important European adjustments in this novel, things such as holiday arrangements and annual compensation are also included, which will help to ensure that this strong national ORF will continue to exist and thus also an Austrian voice in this co-growing Europe. The second – and I would like to say this in particular to Mr Krüger – is: All those who here speak so beautifully of fundamental rights, of diversity, of dualism and of private possibilities overlook one, overlook our country as a land of mountains. It is the nature of our country that makes it impossible to send terrestrial television on a variety of channels. De facto is the possibility for terrestrial broadcasts of three programmes across Austria. If the ORF now has two of them and a third of them is to be given to a private person, it does not create that fundamental right for every private individual to also operate television, but then it creates for a chosen person this right and, of course, neglects the rights of many others who may also want to operate television. Third comment or third error, which is often made in the debate: One pretends that the ratio of radio to newspapers corresponds to that of communicating vessels in which the remarkable fluid has a fixed amount, and one believes that if one pushes it down at one vessel – for example, the advertising volume – it will rise automatically at the other. This is a sharp recognition of all the mechanisms of the market and, moreover, a mental error in that experience in all other countries shows that an increase in advertising in one sector does not lead to an automatic drop in the other sectors, but that this increase in advertising can lead to more advertising taking place in the country as a whole, even beyond that, and a new attitude to advertising, so that one more helps the other to obtain more revenue from advertising. Fourth comment: This law is very important. That is why, in order to carry it out with our partner, we have taken some things into account. Many things we represent together, in many There is a common desire of the government parties, the coalition parties. However, I do not hide that my party or I personally would have liked to have some things different and that even requests that I had signed would have been different only about myself and my group. I believe that a better solution would have been to be found during the broadcast times for the interest groups. The ORF has already worked on one, and there have already been results. I don't know that's what I'd rather be. [[Abg. May. Stoisits: There has already been a government template!]] Well, we have to make compromises to carry out the important thing. Nor do I hide that I would have preferred a different regulation than it was now found for teletext and online services. In order to eliminate the editorial errors that would have led to the insanity that only 35 minutes of advertising a day would have been possible, which is not at all possible in the new media, it has been exploited to say that it has to be limited by percentage. Now there is the 11 per cent scheme, which does not meet the needs of these new technical instruments. On the other hand, I am glad that it is 11 per cent and not just 5 per cent, otherwise it would have brought a restriction, a step back to the possibilities of these important new services and also to public access in these new areas. That is to say, we had to make compromises in detail in order to bring the entire thought into the stage now. Fifth and last: The opposition is entirely right: It would have been worth more detailed discussion of their applications. There's a lot of things you can do and should do. But it's not too late for that. We are going to use the subcommittee on satellites and there is a real willingness to discuss these things. It is much like minority issues and others, and it would be good for this country, if that were also the legal entrance. We will talk about it in all peace in the next few months. To sum up, these novels are a real progress, even if my and our wishes continued. We will therefore be very happy to agree to them.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e7541	The next speaker is Mr Smolle. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e7562	Gospod predsednik! Gospod Državni Secretary! Visoki Dom! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr. Schieder! I hope that your words are not just sand that you want to see in the face of the opposition, when you say that you are treating the requests you have rejected in the Committee on Budgets in a benevolent manner and also wish to decide on them. I believe that we should not provide months for this, but we should do so in January, at the latest in February, and then we should get into the house here with the major broadcasting law novelle. What you have presented at the moment is Ladies and gentlemen, it is, of course, by no means a novelle of broadcasting law, but it is a very poor legislation, resulting first of all from the fact that we have to observe an EU directive relating to the possibility of appeal and to the right of appeal, in addition from the fact that the Constitutional Court has said that, as they are currently running, matters are not permitted. Ladies and gentlemen! We are already at the heart of the criticism of the Liberal Forum on this issue. The Constitutional Court finds that the interests have been eliminated. But what are you doing, what are you doing? . Already in the Committee you are beginning to explore the Constitutional Court's decision again. With the help of an amendment to the representatives of interests – for the Chambers, for the Austrian Trade Union Confederation and for the Austrian Industrial Association – you have again demonstrated interests and decided, ladies and gentlemen. And this is a disregard for our jurisdiction, which is also a disregard for what is in principle in the law! It's clear: Interests have no meaning, interest payments have been abolished. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] And if you can already talk about issues at all, then I think there is, of course, a legitimate interest in giving parties certain opportunities to present themselves before elections, namely, to present themselves evenly. That could be a rest of interest. But this is more about political information, and media are just about to transport political information. Mr. Schieder! This request does you, but also the ÖVP does not honor you. I do not know why you are always allowed to get used to by the ladies and gentlemen in this area. This is not an independent national council, it is not an independent decision-making body, but we are on the tape of some ladies and gentlemen of the professional representative bodies. That's not what it's all about. We should decide reasonable laws within the meaning of this country and not let ourselves be ruled in there. [[Abg. Arbitrators: To get grapes, you have to eat some seeds!]] - That can be. But there is, of course, also the possibility – excuse the expression – to spit out the cores. [[Abg. Arbitrators: You can spit them out, but that doesn't make it any better!]] But the apple is going to be good, the drum is all right. As you say in Carinthia, you don't always have to eat the Butzens, you can also put them aside, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] But now I come to speak a little bit on the content. I was very sad that we got this matter so late. I had been preparing my requests for a long time, so I was a little desperate. I thought some things were not going to come at all, but now it's available. The time was very short, as you know, we just had three days to read us into this matter. Nevertheless, we have tabled our amendments, which I would like to briefly outline. I hope that we will agree on this. Once again, we are dealing with a number of provisions relating to the consignments of ethnic minorities. I would like to make a clear commitment to this. We too are in favour of a strong dualism, that is, the ORF should take on its public-law interest and carry out its task. However, we also believe that in parallel with this, private operators should be strengthened. It should therefore be a programmed and content-based alternative. I have to say – perhaps I am the only one who thinks so – that I have a little feeling that all private operators make about the same salad and then lament that they have too little listeners. I'm not a program designer, not an editor, but I'm sorry if I turn at the button and listen to the same thing everywhere. But that's not my problem, because I still have Ö 1, which I love, and I have, above all, the button on which "on/off" stands, which I use very often, especially in the television. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: This is our age category! There are other channels!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We are dealing with a clear information contract, an information contract on ethnic groups and ethnic groups, which we must demonstrate in this law. We also need to demonstrate a clear programme mandate. We have been doing this for a very long time, Mr Stoisits has repeatedly tabled a request made by me in 1987 in this House. The radio is not ready to do more. He says that in this area we have only a general but no direct specific programme task. We also make clear our commitment to the fourth line, i.e. to the foreign-language line. However, we also believe that Article 11 of the Charter of Regional and Minority should also be implemented. For most of you, this is a well-known matter. The Council of Europe is required to provide at least a radio channel and a television channel for this area. I do not want to go further, because we are going to discuss this in detail in the Committee. What is not entirely irrelevant – we did not know in the past that this will ever be significant – is the provision on the right of appeal, which we are not satisfied with. At present 500 people are required to support a complaint. It is clear that groups are not heard and seen by so many people. We are therefore of the opinion that there must be a change here too, because the possibility of complaint, as is currently envisaged, is simply not to be made from the number. As far as the Regional Radio Act is concerned, we believe that we should clearly define the issue of the ORF's participation, especially for the people's group operators, as I may briefly call them. It is about the ORF being the only one with many archives, which have been created for many years by cultural people in this area. That's what he recorded, and it's currently slumbering into his archives. That would be useful! But above all, the ORF could also help to create joint missions, and could thus relieve itself and also the institutions and operators of the ethnic groups. Above all, it is also about outsourcing and saying a part of it contractually, making this provision. I am thinking, for example, of constant messages that could be based on the same criteria as the ORF. We could assign this to private operators every hour. The question of the provision of the technical transmitters is also important. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr State Secretary! You know, in fact, we only have one flower. We thank you for the really generous help of the Federal Government, once a courageous step has been taken, but you also know that we transfer a third of the amounts we receive from you to the ORF in transit. We are pleased that this is so much under the title "Volksgruppenförderung", but in reality, of course, it is a refund payment to the ORF for making its facilities available to us. Finally, as you say, the big end is the Liberal Forum, which is to consider the entire regional radio authority once again. We believe that the whole thing, as it is currently happening, is not all right. We believe that this authority should be filled with experts, not with representatives of political parties, but with experts who should be elected by the House from a list of several people, as our proposal provides. We need a media agency that actually works independently, and we do not need to extend government policy to private media. We need to say goodbye to that. That would be the great and also necessary end of the state radio, which still exists a little. But I do not want to present the details of our paper. It is essentially a matter of creating an independent institution, no matter how much we call it. This very large, comprehensive package was presented by the Liberal Forum at the last meeting and presented again today. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schieder has already spoken about this, including Mr Khol in a four-eye discussion. I assume that in February we have a large, beautiful radio law novelle here, with which we can all be satisfied. Of course, there will be compromises – I am well aware that I am doing this too – but it must be so much in every case that you can say that it is a beautiful Christmas package, although late. In the case of a package containing something that regulates a matter that we are pleased with, we are able to make compromises as well, and I am therefore sorry about this proposal. I have also offered to make a leap on this template, but you have lost it enormously. This leap was no longer possible in view of the things that you have filed at the last moment. On the whole, I assume that there is a good will, but I will not wait longer than until February. My club chief shakes the head, she seems to know both of you better. But I hope I'm right and not her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e7636	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kukacka. The speaking time freely chosen: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e7657	Mr State Secretary! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Today's decision on the revision of the Radio Law and the Regional Radio Act is another important step for us by the People's Party towards more liberalisation in the Austrian media scene and a further step towards a dual media system, namely to a co-existence of public-law broadcasting on the one hand and private radio and television providers on the other. But it is true – and this has also been noted by Mr Krüger – that, although it is a further step, many other steps will be necessary to achieve a European mature standard. If Mr Krüger said yesterday in the committee - even today he has heard it - that today's decisions are also a one-sided preference of the ORF, I would therefore not agree with it because it is not correct, and I will also say why. But it is undoubtedly true that the ORF still has a very strong position and has a great advantage over its private competitors, for many reasons, also for historical reasons. One reason is also that Austria is lagging behind the development of media policy in Europe – I am admitting that – because liberalisation has also been very late in our efforts. Of course, there are also reasons why this is so. On the one hand, I say quite emotionally, the Social Democrats have slowed down this process where it was possible, because they believed – perhaps they still believe it – that they have set themselves up well in this monopoly. Another reason for this is that the general interns and the management of the ORF, starting with Bacher, via Seiler to Weis, have always wisely preserved and protected the media leadership of the ORF. [[Abg. Smolle:... good relations with ÖVP!]] In addition, the potential competitors and operators of a private radio and television, such as Austrian and foreign publishers and newspaper houses, are very different on this question and could therefore be played against each other by the ORF. Not least is added to the reasons I have mentioned for the legislators. So we ourselves, the High House, have treated the ORF with regard to the issue of fees, but above all with regard to advertising times and other legal conditions, very favourable and very benevolent. Mr Schieder! There is hardly a public broadcasting organisation in Europe which, in its legal framework, is getting as good a conditions from the legislator as the ORF does. I think we should say this again on this day and on this occasion. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Nevertheless, it is not possible to speak of a unilateral preference of the ORF to private individuals today, especially because today – that is right and necessary – not only the Radio Law, but also the Regional Radio Act is passed. This does not only benefit the ORF, but also the private radios. There will be an annual employment calculation for both the private and the ORF. This makes the ORF – as the calculations have produced – an extension of the annual advertising time of up to 7 percent. But also with private radio operators the advertising time is increased from currently 90 minutes to 120 minutes daily. However, it must also be said that the ORF does not have these 120 minutes for all its four channels, but only as a total advertising time for all its stations in the radio area, while the 120 minutes for the private stations apply individually to each transmitter. In addition, the Ö-Regional-Advertisement is also limited to 5 minutes of local advertising. The ORF will also not necessarily rejoice over some other restrictions, but they are partly also laid down in the EU Directive. This is once again the fact that advertising must be clearly recognized as such and must be clearly separated from other parts of the programme by means of optical and acoustic means. This will make the advertising, the product placement, the self-advertising more difficult than before. There is also a clear ban on teleshopping. However, there is also a clear command to identify dangerous consignments of young people by appropriate acoustic or optical means. We expressly welcome all these measures, ladies and gentlemen, as a necessary restriction within the meaning of the ORF's public service contract, which, while restricting it in its market, advertising and quota orientation, enables it to finance fees which, on the other hand, will at least bring it revenues of some 4.5 billion schilling a year. Finally, our amendment also limits the advertising scope of teletext and online services to 11 percent of the page size. It is also important to us, ladies and gentlemen, that in the future every person who has been violated by false reporting in their rights will receive an additional opportunity to complain to the Broadcasting Commission. This will also strengthen the citizens' legal protection against false or defamatory media coverage. This is what we consider to be a correct and necessary development in view of the somewhat easy-to-use handling of the media with the protection of personality. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We are not satisfied that the problem of the area of responsibility and the competences of the regional radio authority or the private radio authority, as it is now called, is limited to changing the name. That's too little. There is a need for action, ladies and gentlemen. And that is not only what we politicians say, but also the acting persons in the authority itself. For example, the chairman said: If one considers independence and permanent employment to be appropriate, I think a media agency is a good thing. She continued to say that in Germany, the national media institutions had proven themselves well, and it would be better to focus on the competences and activities of the Regional Radio Authority, the Regional Radio Commission and the frequency authority under the umbrella of a professional media institution. – That is exactly what we demand from the Austrian People’s Party, and we will not give peace on this issue either. In the next subcommittee, we will deal very intensively with this issue and we will also make an appropriate request. I would like the Social Democrats to recognise the need for such an institution and to come to a common solution. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion: What we decide today is an important step towards the further development of the dual broadcasting system, greater equal opportunities and more equal opportunities between ORF and private individuals. But this path must be continued consistently. Private individuals need to be given further opportunities for development so that we can also become Europe-wide in this area. In the future, the ORF must focus on its self-understanding as a public-law broadcasting organization, for only in this way will it fulfil its legal mandate, but only by doing so will it preserve its real Austrian identity. Everything else, that is, quota hunting at all costs, can be done just as well, if not even better, for private individuals, but without charging fees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e7711	Mrs Mag. Stoisits with a voluntary speaking time of 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e7732	Poštovane lady i gospodo! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. It is very modern in Austria to make a commitment to public broadcasting. Everyone does it, wherever it goes, they do it. It is particularly popular in Parliament because the ORF looks with it. Everyone admits to public broadcasting. It must be strengthened, money must be used here and there. I've heard that for a few years now. A member of the board of trustees of the ORF, Peter Schieder, but also other gentlemen, who are members of the board of trustees and members of the National Council, repeatedly and everywhere confirms the importance of the great reform of the Radio Law, that is, the great ORF-Refom. It is also mentioned what meaningful proposals the opposition – of course with restrictions – has made. This is not only a matter of political competition, in the case of the government parties, but also a long way beyond. Just, ladies and gentlemen, I ask myself: What are these demands, what are the beautiful words when, in fact, there is a question of public-law broadcasting, where it is the economic basis for public-law broadcasting, where it is about upgrading for the new millennium of media politics, nothing happens, if in fact those legal bases that are the condition for it – that is the framework in which the ORF is: a strict corset in the form of a law, therefore it is public-law broadcasting – are not created? I have to tell you honestly: What I have heard now in the Constitutional Committee, namely how seriously to take the proposals, is sound and smoke. The proposals have long been in the Committee of the National Council, but not on the table, but in the drawer. At the parliamentary level, it was not yet discussed in detail for five minutes about the ideas of the individual government parties on the big ORF reform; whatever arbitrationists discuss with Kukacka and whatever popp with Rudas or whoever, in order to speak informally to the gentlemen, in any host houses, chambers or in ORF meeting rooms, this is beyond the knowledge of the general public and, above all, that of the opposition. We Greens want – because the ORF, which is a concern for public-law broadcasting, but I do not want to say that it does not mean the others seriously – that these foundations are also being negotiated, in a transparent and comprehensible discussion. This should not happen because of the Greens, Mr Schieder, but because of the public interest that the payers have. Anyone who owns a television in Austria is interested in this discussion because they meet him. She hits him by having to pay, and she hits him because he gets quality or no quality in the ORF. That's what's in the center. The fee payers are not interested in what you make up in the back chambers and backyards, but they are interested in what the quality of the program is, what public-law broadcasting offers for the money you pay for it. It's supposed to be in the center! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now we've experienced something again, and I'm saying straight ahead: The Greens will agree to the amendment of the Radio Law in the version of the Government template. This is essentially what makes absolutely sense not only in terms of the television directive, but also of what makes sense. Of course we say yes to that! We are also saying about the new regulation in advertising times, because in our view this is a building block for the economic basis of public broadcasting. That is why we are interested that this will be decided today, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. However, we want to agree to this with the request to associate with the request – or we also beg the ORF – which is also to be met by offering quality by not falling back into the fifties, in which there has been only government radio and so on. It should also take this seriously and see that it is the interest of Parliament, the National Council that the focus is on public broadcasting in Austria. But, ladies and gentlemen, all things have several pages, at least two, it cannot be that a member of the Supervisory Board of public broadcasting, namely colleague Mag. Kukacka – a member of the Supervisory Board, member of the Board of Trustees – is at the same time the managing director of a publisher who operates a radio that is in direct competition with the company in whose supervisory board he is. That is what Austria is doing! Austria has a public-law broadcasting system in which the Supervisory Board has people who are competing with the company in whose supervisory board they are. I mean, that's absurd! – That’s absurd, but that’s real politics in Austria! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: That's not true!]] This one goes here and says that the Social Democrats are slowing down. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: I don't run a private radio! I don't run a private radio!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Those who are knowledgeable know what's going on. As that Mr Kukacka and Mr Kurator Schieder continue to pursue this ambush policy and there is no such public discussion, that is why no one is upset about the fact that a kukacka is sitting in a curatorium and at the same time competing with the ORF, although he is actually only interested in the ORF, in the economic survival and in the programme and that his duties in the board of trustees should be carried out. – This, ladies and gentlemen, on the credibility of the government groups! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Then you don't know the radio law! You don't know the Radio Act! You don't know the Radio Act!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Now I am coming – the time is short, and I still have a lot of things to do with minorities, groups of people and migrants in the ORF – to the point where the government fractions have been completely ad absurd: the confession to public broadcasting. Everything was to be heard, we don't want the important programmes, that's a nuisance of listeners and seers, what's going on, and we want an attractive ORF. – Don’t be angry with me, important programmes are everything, just not attractive for listeners and listeners! Even from what we Greens place there, I would not say that it is the yellow of the egg in the ORF. I say so to say as an important sending designer and provider. Then the government makes a proposal and says: Let us make a cut here – at the Constitutional Court the process has already gone in the direction – only more political parties within the meaning of the political contest – there are also elections – should have relevant issues. – We get it as a government template. We say: Well, it's not what we want – we want the complete abolition of important issues, not in terms of election debate – but we say yes. And what are the parliamentary groups of the government parties doing? What are they doing now? – They bring back interest groups. This is a setback in the fifties. Legal professional interests, the Austrian Trade Union Confederation and the Association of the Austrian Industry receive important issues such as ever. It is all put back in place before the procedure at the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court is "rejected". Although I am not yet quite convinced whether it may still be possible to bring these provisions to the Constitutional Court for a breach of equality, that is real policy. Those who can, it's right. There's nothing to help all the faxes we're getting from the senior council now. Mr. Knafl is not politically close to me, but Mr. Knafl of the Austrian Senior Council is right when he asks: Why the Austrian Dentist Chamber and why not the seniors? – Seniors are marked by the fact that they are no longer in work. Now a professional dentist receives an important message, but a significant part of the Austrian population, namely those who are not in the professional life, has none? That's where I wonder: What a world is that? – This is the ÖVP-SPÖ coalition world! That's how she looks, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If that's in the interest of public-law broadcasting, I don't know anymore. Ladies and gentlemen! That is why my amendment: Strike out the important issues, tutto completeto! What about the harassment of listeners and listeners and seers? [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] [[Quoted print version removed]] That's the only possible consequence. Mr Schieder! Make an opinion poll among the fee payers! I do not think there has yet been a subject in which the Greens would have as much support as they do. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I now come to my no less important concerns, namely the representation of the Austrian ethnic groups and migrants, the possibility of using another language other than the German language on Austrian radio. All of this is in the Constitutional Committee, untreated, no one interested in the coalition. That is why I have formulated it again today in the form of a resolution because I ask you to take this into account in the so-called major ORF novelle. These are actually concerns of people who do not have lobbys that do not have Kukacka as managing director who do not have a arbitrator. These have only constitutionally guaranteed rights, as in Article 7 and in the Charter, but no one cares to say it quite brutally. [[Quoted print version removed]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! These four points are the heart of the survival of ethnic groups in Austria. Because we lose the language, then we lose the articulation, and thus we lose the soul. They have it in their hands to preserve the soul, our language and therefore our survival.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e7885	Both the proposed amendment and the read resolution have been handed over to business regulation, supported sufficiently and included in the negotiations. The next speaker is Dr Herbe, Member of Parliament, with a voluntary speaking time of 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e7909	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It is not about a major ORF reform – one has this impression in the debate in stages – but rather about an adjustment decision, which, for example, in connection with advertising, leads to a lot more fairness and a lot more balance between private and public broadcasting – for example, by extending the advertising times of the private to ORF level or, for example, the annual calculation of advertising times. In this novel, not all desires are fulfilled, which is in the nature of the matter. It's a compromise, it's a controversial issue. On the subject of important issues raised: Interesting programmes for pensioners, as advised by the Austrian Senior Council? Interests for Youth Organizations? What seems particularly important to me! I believe, Mrs Stoisits, that it cannot be said, as a priority, that it is not attractive, that it is a nuisance. The youth organisations would be grateful if they were judged and told: If you can design a show, then it is not attractive a priori. [[Abg. May. Stoisits: You can't do that!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] - Of course, okay. It's hot controversial. If the ORF makes transmission time available and when it comes to political interests, it is controversial. This has, of course, historical roots. There was a mission by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany decades ago, a mission by the Vice-Cancellor, and a long time ago – as one would say – in the countries of the same kind, namely the Sunday address of the head of state in Ö 2. In the past, ladies and gentlemen, the heads of state ruled by state and government. It was custom that on every fourth Sunday of the month, the father of the land presented his own perfection to the insanity of the lukewarm subjects. In reality, the naturally empty culprits, a self-representation, party-political propaganda, were constantly recurring politic phores. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: This is a massive criticism of Gratz and Zilk!]] - I'll talk to Zilk. That was free, ladies and gentlemen! The parties did not pay for it. It is a self-advertising of party owners – one-sided, because political competition does not find the same media conditions, and tolerates and supports by national intendants at a time when the national intendants have still been determined by the state princes and have always shown themselves grateful. What is it like today in modern times, when there are no more princes of the state? In democracy is a matter of course for the chairmen of the respective national governments? In which the lady and the masters of the state are modern, open-minded and forward-looking? Vienna and Zilk were just addressed. The Vienna colleagues know that old-class mayor Helmut Zilk, who is mediatically anything but shy, has already left himself away from this free self-representation decades ago. The Vienna colleagues also certainly believe that this national relic has long been abolished in the other federal states. But don't worry, ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, I must inform you that there are still these radio addresses of the national leaders – free, unilateral, empty words, self-representation, political propaganda – once a month. Nothing has changed at all. But it has changed something else, namely the national intensants. They are young, committed intensants in the countries at work, and this is the big change. These new agents have not been determined by the heads of state. Thanks to Gerhard Weis, these have been ordered objectively, and they do not have to thank any head of state for the career, and they do not hang on the political gang. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that in 1999 the national intruders will abandon this disfavor – whether the Gerhard Draxler is in Carinthia, Roland Adrowitzer in Tyrol or Edgar Morbens in Styria. The young, modern intensants will end this anachronism and transport these princely relics to the medium museum, and I am looking forward to it. There is an opinion by Holoubek in which the broadcasting admissibility of the broadcast of the head of state is dealt with. It is clear that the ORF is not obliged to read this on page 5. There is no claim of the national leaders to this mission, page 6, and the national intern is open to the abolition of this type of broadcast, page 10 of the opinion. I am deeply convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that the legislator does not have to intervene in 1999, that this question must not be resolved. I am deeply convinced that, from the beginning of the year, national experts will ensure fairness, equal opportunities, balance and modernity in the political media sector in the national studios. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e7964	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Main with a voluntary time limit of 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e7985	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to correct the comments made by Mr Kräub in one point: I believe that his assessment for Austria is too optimistic. I am convinced that first of all the elections will move into the country and perhaps then the abolition of the consignments of the national leaders will take place. Perhaps even the constitutional court knowledge of 1999 will go into the country, and a total reform will be undertaken due to the constitutional court's knowledge of 100 perforated regional applicants. For one thing is aware in the history of ORF and public broadcasting in Austria, everyone who has been concerned about it: The respective Federal Government only responded if it had lost at the Constitutional Court or at European courts, or if the major media in that country, namely the printing media, agreed to make a popular desire against the ORF in order to redesign the distribution cake in the advertising volumes in the appropriate form. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Otherwise, nothing moved in the ORF, except that people were led from one service to another, who dared not to be loyal to the powerful in that state and the government, but also to the opposition and other interest groups, who are subsumed in non-stateised stakeholders, to allow access to freedom of expression. There will be no change in today's radio and regional radio law in this respect either. Five minutes ago, it was a legislative implementation of the EU's demands and no longer, and it is also another commitment to favouring public-law broadcasting. That must be said clearly. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Kukacka! For someone who has four channels and receives a broadcast as an advertising broadcast only once is clearly in favour of any competitor and will therefore be more easily able to do the "advertising" than anyone who has received small regional care units and no more. You will be right to say that not even this change of the existing law was included in this reform, not to mention other improvements and liberalisations of public broadcasting in relation to private operators. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] The fact that the problem of minority broadcasting and the representation of minorities in the ORF is also not properly regulated should also be mentioned. I have already made proposals with my colleague Harald Ofner in connection with the public law of the ORF in the minority councils many years ago. The positions were violently fought at the time. I am pleased that the German-speaking subtitles to the understanding of the majority population for these minority missions have now found their way into the amendment tabled by Mr Stoisits. But one thing should also be said here, namely that there is a curiosum in the Regional Radio Act. If you look at the notice for Agora Korotan Lokalradio GmbH at the time and there under item 4 concerning the conditions of § 19 para. 2 Regional Radio Act, then it is noted that since 1989 the members of the association "Agora" have been intensively concerned with the topic of "Free Radio". What's behind that? – Behind the topic of "Free Radio" is an institution with which Longo Mai has committed multiple media breaks as a private and pirate station in Europe and has now proposed an illegal activity as a qualification in an official reason for the allocation of the Agora-Korotan Radio in Carinthia. I can only say: Such a reason in a decree under the Regional Radio Act, in which a multi-annual breach of law is cited as a qualification for Longo Mai and Agora, simply means to me the elimination of the rule of law. – But in connection with Austrian broadcasting, with the new regulation of Austrian broadcasting and the violation of minority rights, I am not in any way surprised by this breach of law in the decision-making process.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e8055	Mrs Mag. Frieser. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e8077	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== April 1998 – with a delay of more than a decade vis-à-vis the other European states; that has already been mentioned by my previous speakers and is really not an April joke! – there are also rudimentary approaches to a dual broadcasting system in Austria. This means that in Austria, in addition to the ORF, private companies can also design and transmit radio programmes. Thus, the dual system is beginning to form the co-existence of public and private channels – it is late, but still late. Since we have now become familiar with the dual system, as I believe, we also have a fair framework for it. In this context, I would like to point out, as some of my previous speakers have said, that the private are still in a situation similar to the role of David, while the ORF is, so to speak, the Goliath. Today's legislative decisions are to be seen in this light, and I stress that they do not improve in relation to this distribution of roles – at least what my ideals are about to achieve. The ORF has a very generous regulation in terms of advertising times – this is noted by comparing them with the advertising times of other renowned public broadcasters, such as BBC, ARD or ZDF. It would also be very important for the grey zones of so-called special advertising of product placement to be clearly regulated, so that border crossings and extensions are not allowed in this area. This applies in particular to teletext and online services and the rules for playing new media as a whole. A completely unacceptable distortion would also have been if instead of granting the widely estimated Blue Danube Radio, which by the way is an excellent and classic example of the fulfilment of the public-law mission, the ORF would have had the opportunity to open a fourth radio programme to compete with the private. Ladies and gentlemen! The issue of dual media regulation in connection with private television in Austria is particularly delicate. You remember: The draft law sent out has rightly been postponed to further consultation. I took part in a total Austrian cable TV symposia in early October. There I was signaled by other participants the white horror at the possible threat to their livelihoods by this draft law. Ladies and gentlemen! The regulatory framework is very crucial for the elaboration and establishment of a dual system, which really deserves this name. I believe that an independent media organisation that controls private and public operators equally and co-designs and promotes their developments will be indispensable in the longer term. At this point, allow me to compare with the Telekom scheme or with the German media institutions. Especially respect for the Regional Radio Authority: The dependence on the Federal Chancellery, on the Ministry of Transport and ultimately also on the ORF in terms of infrastructure, know-how and frequency issues is not acceptable for a fair, dual system in the longer term! Ladies and gentlemen! A mere change of name from the regional radio and radio authority to a private broadcasting authority or decisive expansion of competence and independence is not enough. That would simply be a cynical label flaw. The points I have raised are, by the way, almost unisono also included in the opinions of the federal states on the draft laws: in the opinion of the state government of Vienna as well as in the opinion of the Upper Austrian state government and – last but not least – that of the Styrian state government. The opinion of the Association of Austrian Newspaper Publishers is very precise. They are most affected by all changes. We should therefore take note of your comments with interest and help to preserve the diversity of the media in our country. Ladies and gentlemen! I know that, especially in Austria, the speed of progress is similar to that of a snail. However, my hope is that we are moving in the right direction with the discussion on these laws. I think this is an extremely important cultural and democratic task. Ladies and gentlemen! Before I conclude, allow me to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would ask you to give your support to this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e8167	The amendment which has just been read has been properly submitted, is supported accordingly and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Barmüller. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e8191	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been mentioned several times today that this amendment is also a transposition of Directive 89/552/EEC, as amended by Regulation 97/36 EC. I believe that we have missed something in a bit, and that this is also the subject of advertising. This provision should not only be related to pornography, unmotivated violence or unfounded violence, as will be stated in § 2a of the Radio Law in the future, but must also be regulated in the area of advertising, an increasingly controversial field. I should therefore like to refer you to a request made by Mrs Schaffenrath, Mr Oellinger, Mr Kammerlander, Mr Moser and Mr Barmüller, which also refers to the directive which is to be implemented today by means of the decision on the broadcasting law, and in which it is said that advertising which is discriminatory in Austria, particularly after sex, should be prohibited. You will find this in Article 12 of the Directive, in which it explicitly states: "Television advertising must not (a) infringe human dignity and (b) contain discrimination by race, gender or nationality." While we directly recognize discriminatory advertising directed against race or nationality, the perception of discriminatory advertising after sex – this is also evident when one looks at the statements of the advertising council – is still in need of development in Austria. One thing has already been mentioned several times today: This is not only a matter of political statements – and rightly the honourable Member has also addressed certain issues or speeches of the head of state or of the head of state – but of course it is also a matter of social guidance that is mediated by advertising, television, mass media at all. It is therefore important not to maintain discriminatory role-kliques, which are used for advertising purposes, in Austria. The directive is a means to be implemented, therefore, of law, but there are also Council resolutions, including the European Parliament, calling for the same. Ladies and gentlemen! In this context, I would ask you to consult the request submitted and the fact that, in the future, discriminatory advertising will also be an administrative criminal offence under Article 9 of the ECJ in the committees. I would also ask you to consider, as far as violence and pornography is concerned, whether they are already laid down in the Broadcasting Act or are to be committed today, but they are not, for example, subject to administrative sanctions, also considering and considering that these rules should be applied in particular in relation to advertising which is discriminatory after-sex. Ladies and gentlemen! Members of the Liberals, together with the Greens, have tabled a corresponding request which could serve as a support rocket for such a discussion. In this sense, I hope that we will continue to discuss it during this legislative period. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e8235	Mrs Petrovic has also been mentioned. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e8256	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! My colleague, Mr Térezija Stoisits, has already said the most. It is always regrettable that we cannot hold a comprehensive media debate – the ORF, but also the private radios and private television; in our opinion, it is urgently necessary that a debate on free, non-commercial radios should not be held, because this is apparently impossible in this House as a whole. We were able to achieve this early in the course of a short presidential term that there would very soon be a subcommittee meeting on the opposition proposals. I also hope that this morning's declarations of intent will be kept and that we will be able to take up this much-needed overall debate. Before I come to the issue of ORF, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] On this occasion, I do not want to miss out on giving a praise and a warm thanks to the Regional Radios office, because it is really only thanks to the above-average use of the people there that this works as it works. I must say that the Federal Chancellor's Office there is an urgent need for action. At the latest in the field of frequency planning, we will have to note once again that a division of competences between regional radio authority and frequency authority has not been established in the previous form. I therefore urge you, Mr State Secretary, to prepare by the next spring the work towards the effective gathering of the agendas so that we can decide quickly. And, as I said, a warm thank you to those who do it! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] For today's micro- and micro-reform. As has been said, it is very unsatisfactory that a regulation that is necessary in itself and desirable in our view as regards the calculation of advertising times is not linked to a slightly larger reform. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Right!]] I think that the criticism of those affected by these outrages is also right for us. In this context I speak of the filmmakers and also of the Austrian musicians. I don't know how many times I've said it in this house: It's really a shame, it's a shame for a country that always calls itself "cultural land" and "culture" how to deal with these two large professional groups and industries! Mr State Secretary! I am not concerned with the social aspect. I already know that reports on the social situation of artists are being produced. That's why it's all right. But, in fact, it was a matter of evaluating the difficulties and opportunities of these industries! There are no industries that are so promising and expand in other countries as the film industry and the music industry. Only in Austria do we continue to count the fruit trees, instead of once working conditions, economic structures, the structures of these industries, or once to try to eliminate the difficulties that are becoming more and more common in these areas. That's not happening! If, as part of this small ORF reform, we only implement the EU minimum standards, that is, that at least 10 percent of the ORF budget is spent on Austrian filmmaking, then this is actually a poverty certificate. These EU values represent only minimum values and should be exceeded by a cultural nation such as Austria by far! I call the comparisons: ARD 43 percent, ZDF 75 percent, and the ORF with 17 percent is just over 10 percent. - That's a shame! This also explains the decline in this sector, which in Austria simply no longer enjoys any political attention. Even worse is the situation in the field of music. It is not enough to conjure up that, in principle, one wants a public-law broadcasting service with a public-law mandate, while at the same time the access barriers – and I am not talking about money, Mr State Secretary! –, especially in the field of entertainment music, are simply oversized. We already had a petition of the "Austrian note" here in the house, but nothing has changed at all. The public-law order is fulfilled on Ö1 visible or audible, but at Ö3 it is said: There we cannot, we need this programme as a financial supplier. – The public-law order is not recognizable there. I ask you whether the promotion of today's musical work, contemporary music, U- and e-music should not be a concern on all the programmes of the ORF. Mr State Secretary! I do not understand the argument I always hear in this context. That's what it says, for example: Well, there are good artists, but they do not have a marketing contract. The ORF says: As long as they don't have a record contract, we can't play it. And the record companies say again: The ORF doesn't play it, so they don't get a record contract. – No one comes out of this vicious circle! We are losing enormous opportunities in the creation of genuinely forward-looking jobs. Allow me to speak on this point, Mr State Secretary: In comparison, what attention have the gravel plants aroused, also with their demonstrations on the Ringstraße? I'm really asking you: How do you see the future of jobs and the economy in Austria, for example, when you underestimate the chances of work in the film and in the music and instead place it on true "stone-time businesses"?- Oh, my God! Mr State Secretary! That's a real evidence of poverty. Yes, the Greens will agree to this regulation of advertising time throughput, but in fact we are sad and outraged at the fact that we have not been able to make a real big reform, including in terms of working opportunities and the viability of the sectors dependent on the ORF. My colleague, Mr Stoisits, rightly said: This is, of course, because the ORF is very likely to be led to the gang of the government parties and because there are conflicts of interest there. Only the placement of close-to-governmental groups of interests proves to me that a step towards real commercialization, but unfortunately, on the basis of the public-law order, has been largely missed. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e8329	The motion for a resolution that has just been read has been properly tabled, is supported and is under negotiation. Mr Fischl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e8353	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! – Mr Schieder, you can interpret what you want. [[Abg. Arbitrator: Are you speaking for the Meischberger?]] I speak first and foremost for my group and, of course, for me and also for the voters who will vote for us – hopefully! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] High house! As the last speaker on this chapter, in the few remaining minutes I still have, I would like to deal with what some gentlemen, especially my colleague, have given of themselves here. He spoke of a government template that had a balanced content. Mr Herb, I do not normally want to upgrade you, but in this case I would like to give you a small appreciation by my objection, because I really wonder: Where can a balance be seen in this government template? Do you think that, in the context of the adaptation to this law, more stringent measures are taken to protect young people, perhaps extending the advertising times against which we liberals really do not have a lot, provided that accompanying measures are taken which take account of the private, private and private economy in our state, which is not at all the case in this proposal? The desire, the concerns, the criticisms and opinions of the private operators in this law are not at all taken into account – it is easy to wipe from the table, because it is about expanding the ORF prestige, so to speak, to manifest the monopoly, Mr. Herb. I would also like to come to Mr Kukacka's statement, which says that this law is Europe's mature, and we would have taken a step towards more Europe's maturity by this law. Mr Kukacka, do you know Article 86 of the EC Treaty? Do you know the dominant position that a monopoly company takes? Do you know the basic idea of the EU? Do you know freedom to provide services? Do you know, if you want, the EU Constitution? Mr Kukacka, at a time when the government parties in Austria tirelessly boast of holding the EU Presidency, would be more sensitive to EU law! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Herzegovina! When I spoke about the many private individuals earlier, I meant those in about 50 who have since 1993 decided to set up a company in that country, under the most difficult competitive conditions, following the recognition of the European Court of Justice. Of those around 50 who have been working since 1993, none of them actually find the economic outcome, and that for only one reason: because – the ruling parties – they are trying to permanently develop the legal status of public-law broadcasting and television in order to be able to live up to the power you have by doing so. Mr Herb, that is the real reason, and that is also the reason why private government is run behind. Mr. Herb, just because I am addressing you from the left half of the empire: Maybe orientation. I would like to say a few words to your Socialist Group colleague, Mr Jospin, who is the President-in-Office of the Council in France. This one has just presented to the public a new communication law that reflects exactly the reverse trend of Austria. The reverse trend is in France: stronger towards public order, less advertising time, less advertising time for public broadcasting and television. [[Abg. Arbitrator: He does not do this in the terrestrial realm! He'll do it on the satellite! That's not what you're saying!]] Mr Schieder, I know that hurts you because it is your domain. Mr Schieder, it hurts you so much because it is your domain. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Just believe me, Mr Schieder, that this domain will not be yours for long. Faith It's me! [[Further call of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] Competition will also take place in this area. The ORF employees also long for this. Really, believe me! [[Abg. Arbitrators: I believe you do not know what will be decided in France!]] I have been in close contact with the staff of the ORF for almost ten years and can only tell you that these are longing for competition, liberalisation and privatisation, for all that is a foreign word for you, because it is simply not compatible with your political doctrine. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: I long for you to quote correctly, to quote France correctly!]] Mr. Schieder! I would then like to give you your colleague Jospin's report. He may not be a colleague, but at least he could be a model for you in the creation of a new communication law, perhaps you will take out bonds from it. We liberals can live with many of what Jospin says, but certainly not with what you want to decide here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e8459	No one is reporting on this. That concludes the debate. There is no final word on the part of the rapporteur. We are immediately entering the voting procedure, and I therefore ask the ladies and gentlemen to take the places. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall vote on the draft federal law, which amends the Radio Law and the Novelle 1993 Radio Law, together with the title and receipt in 1563 of the Supplements. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Stoisits and comrades submitted an amendment. In addition, MEPs have tabled an amendment to Dr. Khol, Arbitrators and Comrades. Finally, Mr President, Mr Graf has asked for a separate vote. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the amendments and on the request for separate votes, in line with the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Mag. Stoisits and comrades have tabled an amendment which refers to the deletion of § 5 para. 1 referred to in point 7 of Article 1. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for this to be a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. There is no need to vote on the amendments requested to paragraph 5 of this paragraph. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 1(7)(5) as amended by the Committee's report. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to give their consent to this sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule I, paragraph 13, as amended by the Committee's report. In case of your consent, I would like an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report, taking into account the amendment tabled by Members Dr. Khol, Arbitrators and Comrades on Article 1 (14) 8. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. If you would like to give the draft law a third reading, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. I note that the draft law was adopted at third reading. We shall also proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Members. Stoisits and comrades on the extension of the rights of minorities in public broadcasting. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft federal law amending the Regional Radio Act, together with the title and receipt in 1521 of the Supplements, taking into account the amendments to the Committee's report 1567 of the Supplements. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. If you want to give the draft law the approval at third reading, I would ask for a sign to this effect. – This too is the majority. The draft law was therefore adopted at third reading. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Stoisits and comrades concerning frequency planning and approval for private broadcasting operators by the Regional Radio and Cable Broadcasting Authority. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. 5. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 975/A (E) by Mr Karl Smolle, Dr Peter Kostelka, Dr Andreas Khol, Mag. Johann Ewald Stadler and MMag. Dr. Madeleine Petrovic on the work of the Historical Commission (1560 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e8601	I'm calling the 5. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first mention is made by Mrs Dr Karlsson. 10 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e8628	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! What is the point of this agenda item, which is now a five-party request in a few minutes' time? . It is a matter for the signed Members to welcome the establishment of a Commission of Historians, chaired by the President of the Administrative Court, Dr. Jabloner, who has already constituted himself and started work, and that the Federal Government should facilitate the work of this Commission and, above all, ensure that no documents are destroyed from the relevant time and that these documents are preserved. What is the historical background of the work of the Historical Commission and the laborious work in the archives? ==References== In his speech at the Wiener Nordwestbahnhof in 1938, Hermann Göring presented the programme: It was about expelling the Jews from the area of culture and the economy – from Vienna and Austria. This program was immediately implemented, and it began a wave of cruelty and greed. For us today, it is very difficult to make this wave understandable, even to describe. I've been thinking for a long time how this could happen in an appropriate way. I would like to try with very specific examples from the areas of culture, the displaced culture, but it was mainly about audience lovers, about very popular artists such as Emmerich Kálmán, composer of well-known operettas such as "Graffin Mariza" or "Die Csárdásfürstin". Kálmán returned from a visit from Budapest to Vienna in March 1938 and found his house occupied by SA-people. Her leader was a lawyer who was friends with him, as Kálmán believed. The house has just been cleaned out. Images, carpets and furniture were divided among the house workers, and when Kálmán’s wife noticed that she would release the house workers, she was answered: Jews can't let us go! – It is to be said that Emmerich Kálmán has never recovered his property. These things were not unknown. Georg Kreisler expressed it this way in his sarcastic, dry statement in the New York exile: It was not so interesting for the Wiener to become part of Germany. What she was interested in was: They wanted the apartment of Mr. Kohn. But also at this time there were decent and indecent, including among the artists. Two examples from my constituency, from Josefstadt: My long-standing neighbor, widow of the k. u.k. and later castle actor Hans Höbling – at the time very well known – told me on my first visit to her apartment: "We live" – he was already dead at the time – "still in my husband's bachelor's apartment. It was offered to him at the time when one had to prove his descent from the monkey, many dwellings, but my husband said that a decent person does not do such a thing." The second example: Perhaps experts of literature have often wondered why Heitito von Doderer, who lived at the Spitalgasse after the biographies on Währinger Straße, had a stem chisel in Lenaugasse. Some of you live in this area of Lenaugasse/Josefstädter Straße. The background history is as follows: In Buchfeldgasse 6 a painter, Trude Wähner, lived – she had to emigrate, was expelled. Heimito von Doderer and Albert Paris Gütersloh have taken care of this apartment, just around the corner was her later stem bite. After the end of World War II 1945, Trude Wähner had to process for many years to get this apartment back at all. – That’s what it’s all about. I do not want to mention that, of course, there were also people like the popular text poet of many Hermann Leopoldi songs, Theodor Waldau, who could not imagine – quote – "that something could happen to an innocent person". We hear this argument again very often today. Waldau was destroyed in the Buchenwald concentration camp. By the way, the property of Robert Stolz, who emigrated as an opponent of the regime, was also confiscated. Maybe an absurd detail at the edge: In the expulsion and destruction of the culture, the National Socialists came to a border very quickly, and such a limit were the waltzes of the ostrich dynasty, which they themselves used as film music. It was very difficult to place or forbid this music as detarted. So Johann Strauss, whom the contemporary anti-Semites insulted with the pronouncement "the Jidl with the Fiedel", was not to be forbidden. So what did you do? – In the volume 60 of the wedding matrices of the parish of St. Stephan stood above the name of the grandfather Johann Strauss: "baptized Jew". This page has been torn out 110 and a new one has been reintroduced without this addition. The Strauss-Walzers were thus "arranged", and the people could enjoy this music again with good conscience. – This is an absurd detail on the edge of this extermination machine. It is argued over and over again: Why are these robbed ones only now, why not before? – First of all, this argument is not true, there have been repeated advances in this respect, and second, there is something to add, and here too I would like to have a person concerned talk about it, Peter Herz, text poet of such well-known Vienna songs as "In a small café in Hernals": "My apartment was looted after I left Nazis; everything was dragged away, including my brand album, which had a lot of rarities, meant a lot to me as a valuable relic from my youth. What does what happened to me in the Nazi period, but to the immeasurable suffering of the many others? Almost nothing!" – And that was also the consideration of those concerned. Robert Dachs has made it his life's work to show this robbed, dispossessed, destroyed culture, and I would like to thank and acknowledge him here. He has very often reported on the efforts of archival work and how difficult it is to get access to these archives. The files were: Penibel listed the National Socialist extermination machinery, as the recently found VOEST files show. It is now about the fact that nothing disappears, justice is created where it can still be created, and clarity is created. We wish the Historical Commission much success in their difficult work. Our request, to which my group would like to give its assent, will facilitate this work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e8703	Mr Morak has also been mentioned on the floor. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e8724	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! What's this about? – My previous speaker has already told a lot about this. I read briefly the following sentence: The Federal Government is invited to ensure, in all archives of the authorities of the Federal Government and the subordinate departments for the period of activity of the Historical Commission, the preservation of existing files or to prevent the destruction of files. - Quote. I think that this intention is all right, that it is just that it is good and fair. Of course, we also agree with this motion for a resolution, which is clear. I just think that the whole thing is too short. The aim of this House must be to make an archival law so that it is laid down by law, which has to be lifted and archived. Secondly, we are dealing with directives when, under what circumstances and under what conditions. Thirdly, What are the conditions for the use of these archives? There are archival laws in virtually all European countries. In this context, it must be pointed out that in Austria the 20-year deep sleep of the BKA is crucial for the absence of an archival law. Historians have pointed out over the past 20 years that the necessary clarity for access to archives is missing in order to be able to work accordingly. As a politician, it must be self-critical to note that we have long acted as if this were a "orchiden theme". I think that the times have changed and the access of the son, daughter and granddaughter generation has become another at this time, and I believe that there is a need for action here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Liberal Forum.]] This deficit was identified by the Historical Commission in its first meeting. It has been virulent since then, and we would be well advised here in the House if we were to take this outcome of the first meeting of the Committee on Historians to give serious thought to and deal with this matter. I think we would do something good to this country, we would do something good and we would do something good to the victims and the future if we could agree on making such a law in the near future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e8776	Mr Kurzmann is also speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e8798	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The Freedom Party - we have already made this clear in the Constitutional Committee - supports this motion for a resolution, for which Mr Smolle, who I believe will speak, has a certain authorship in the Constitutional Committee. I assume that Parliament will vote in favour of this motion for a resolution by a large majority, yes, I think there will be clarity in the decision-making process. As a historian, who has worked in a public archive for many years, I would like to make a few fundamental comments on this motion for a resolution. If one takes this motion for a resolution literally, one could get the impression that the National Council sees the work of the Historical Commission threatened by a possible or imminent destruction of files and now wants to prevent this by a resolution, by a resolution in all circumstances. Ladies and gentlemen! Such an approach implies at least that historians and public - service archivists were not very careful about the historical material entrusted to them. If you don't put it as carefully as I did now, you could also say: There is a certain degree of distrust in a whole professional group. I know from many historical days, but also from the meetings of Austrian archivists the high professional ethos of these people. These are not really an act destroyers of the blow of state security in the former GDR, but they are, on the contrary, scientists who, in order to quote Leopold von Ranke, strive to explore how it has actually been in the past. I am not aware that an Austrian archival has deliberately manipulated or destroyed files. Ladies and gentlemen! In an archive, it is also not so easy to allow certain files to disappear easily. Because there are exact directories on these files, and there is also an archive order in each archive, which is embarrassingly precisely the following: What must be stored for eternal times, as it is so beautiful? Which sources are always important? There are also, of course, archival material, of which one says: Which files can be scheduled after 20 years or even after 10 years? – Only stocks of files, which are sources of mass, which are thus historically secondary and have no significant significance, must be eliminated and destroyed from time to time for reasons of place in each archive of this world. I will not accept this request because I distrust my professional colleagues – the archivists and the historians – but because as historian I consider it important to clarify the following: What happened to the so-called arid assets? How has the return taken place? To what extent has the return taken place? – The return, ladies and gentlemen, these provisions were mostly carried out between 1951 and 1955. What are the shortcomings in this case? These are interesting questions about the history of time, which the Historical Commission must be very interested in and can also be treated by it. Other issues which have not yet been addressed, but which are also relevant, include: What happens to the private archives the National Council has no access to? And how do we keep it in future with the archival barrier, which is about 30 years and 50 years in the Anglo-Saxon countries, when it comes to personal resources? – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e8847	Mr Smolle has also been mentioned on the floor. Mr President, I should like to point out to you that I may have to interrupt you at 3 p.m. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e8877	Gospod predsednik! Gospod Državni Secretary! Visoki Dom! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: "Visoki Dom" I like very well, that is, "Hohes Haus"!]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Khol! I'm glad you entered the room to listen to me. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: It's 15 o'clock soon!]] I am pleased, however, that we have been able to extend a motion for a resolution, which, as a strong plant in the Liberal Forum, has seen the light of the world, through the Greens and the two government groups, to the Freedom Party in such a way that we set a really strong emphasis. I am now going to agree with you, Mr Presiding, that this request is brief. I've already explained why. However, I have been concerned about setting a signal, which is a very important signal in this area, because I have received information about the fact that, as has been said, archive materials are not handled so carefully. Above all, we know that there are a number of archival materials in the hands of which it is not quite clear who these papers belong. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Where did this happen?]] Of course, we can only use the Federal Government as a recipient in the National Council. We can't impose anything on any private person except by law, that's clear. Therefore, by means of a motion for a resolution, we will not necessarily be able to move a private person to do so, but we may be creating the sensitivity to it. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Where did this happen?]] I've already reported that. This speech has to be read, Mr President. That's what I already have – maybe you weren't in the hall... Oh, yes, that was very concrete, I told you all that. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: But where in concrete terms?]] But now we do not stop with old speeches to be read in the Stenographical Protocol. I would, however, like to be prepared to pick out the speech for you if you are not able to do so yourself. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: I always listen to you!]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is quite clear to me that this request is brief. But at the same time he should be a reason for this – please take it as an suggestion, Mr State Secretary! . that we are now very quick to expect a good, solid archival law. An archival law refers not only to materials located in the public sector, but also to materials which are in the private, church or wherever, if these are fundamental materials for history, for the public, for the Community. This is a Grundmanko in Austria: We need a good archive law, but we don't have it. Such a law would give us the opportunity to intervene also in the area, which my colleague, as a matter of course, has already gathered in the first contact in connection with this request: We also need to break our minds about what we are doing with all those companies that were working for forced workers at the time and who then paid the wages not to the workers concerned, but for example – as we also know – in large areas directly to the SS. That is, there are very important documents in these companies. That is why it is not about a Hatz against the archivists, but about saying: In principle, materials – no matter how irrelevant they may appear in the first moment – are currently not to be changed. I have made this clear to the Minister for Justice, and I am particularly pleased that he has apparently taken my suggestion seriously. He has already set up his own Commission to look at these files. He does not agree in his press release that this refers ultimately to a request from the Liberals, but that is not so important. It is important that he has responded quickly and has ordered a Commission to see where all these files are currently located, especially from the post-war period, but of course also from the period 1938 to 1945. You can see, ladies and gentlemen, that good works usually have to do with other good works. In this sense, a compliment to the Minister of Justice. I hope that other ministries will react as quickly as possible and immediately proceed to the point of view, regardless of the question of how important individual documents will ultimately prove. Ladies and gentlemen! In today's newspapers, we can see that a number of NS-acts are also in the VOEST. Here, for example, I have a communication on the cooperation of the German "Alliance" with the Holocaust Commission and also a meeting of an US Secretary of State that Austrian insurance companies are not so cooperative in this respect. In this sense too, our motion is extremely important, ladies and gentlemen, because it is, as it were, a bit of the raised finger in this direction: Let us be careful about our archives! This also concerns banks and private companies, because it will be necessary to obtain archival material from there too. Of course, the question of criminal law will also arise whether, in a way or not, the destruction of so-called interestless acts has also resulted in the elimination of evidence. There will be compensation procedures, ladies and gentlemen, and it will, of course, be a question of whether these files are still available, whether they were there on Day X – for example, on the day of today's request – and if they are no longer there or not, if they are needed. I also believe that archivists are not a priority for the destruction of files and that they do not. But there are also other methods to make materials harder to access, for example – I have reported on it last time – by mixing various materials. We know that, as a matter of principle, the countries, private documents and federal documents decide on federal authorities. If one tries to mix these documents with one another, and the stock is, so to speak, as a whole convoluted, then there is a great deal of permission to arrive at individual materials. There is quite a lot of imagination in this regard among the bureaucratic archivists, so that we do not allow materials to disappear, but only make them very restrictive. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to use this opportunity to bring you an example from the area we are directly dealing with. Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to this from the report of the Slovenian cooperatives association, which was drawn up in connection with post-war history. The text is in Slovenian in the original language. I'm going to quote it and then put it in German in summary. [[The speaker cites a longer text in Slovenian.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Good Slovenian you can't!]] [[The quoted text translates the speaker as follows:]] It is reported here that the attack on Yugoslavia liquidated the Slovenian cooperatives and that this liquidation took place in such a way that the Slovenian cooperatives were transferred to the other cooperatives. It then lasted until 1957 until the return of parts of this property. Ladies and gentlemen! In this sense, I will also present documents for some other occasions. The same report states that the Slovenian cooperatives – this is just an example; I could tell the same about the Czech library – have not yet received compensation for the lost assets. That's a fact. – Quote from the report I have read to you. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Mein Ladies and gentlemen! In this sense, I would like to thank you for your broad support. However, I believe that we can expand and deepen this matter in committee and that we may even be able to adopt a courageous archival law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e9010	I am now interrupting the negotiations on the current item on the agenda to call for a urgent request at 3 p.m. The sitting was suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 2.58 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e9037	I will now resume the interrupted session. Request for urgent procedure by Dr Kostelka, Arbitrator, Dr Hlavac, Dr. Gusenbauer, Dr. Cap and comrades to the Federal Chancellor concerning Austria's EU Presidency and the European Council of 11 and 12. December in Vienna (5344/J)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e9070	We now come to the urgent debate on the written question 5344/J. As this question has now been addressed to all the Members of Parliament, there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e9161	I now give Mr Kostelka as the first questioner to state the reasons for the question, which, according to § 93 para. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e9182	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! Let me begin with, because at the beginning of today's sitting this has caused a few discussions, let me find a few words to justify this urgent question. [[Abg. May. Peter: The Social Democratic Festival!]] Ladies and gentlemen! At 154 meetings of the National Council in the current legislative period, the Socialist Group has asked exactly two urgent questions. On average, this means: Only every 75. There was a urgent request from the leading government group. I hope you will. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] In this context, it cannot be said in any way that the Rules of Procedure are misused. On the contrary: What applies to you in case of urgent inquiries also applies to us. If there is abuse if there are practices contrary to the spirit of the Rules of Procedure, then this is the case, for example, if you request eleven special sessions in four years or, as has been said in the last days, if you do not declare an objection debate as a "driving request". That, ladies and gentlemen, is abuse! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Will we see who is stronger: you or you?]] In this context, it is clear that: The debate on the Austrian EU Presidency is sensible and necessary, and this has been generally confirmed and accepted by all the members of this House and the Presidency. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The chancellor didn't want to report voluntarily, now he's been forced!]] There was also agreement between the political groups that it was accepted that both the German Chancellor's climate and the Vice-Cancecian Schüssel could not make a statement today under the first item on the agenda, because they fulfilled an obligation which you accepted, namely to the European Parliament in Strasbourg. This urgent question, ladies and gentlemen, is the guarantee that the debate you originally wanted with us can take place at all. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The bad conscience speaks from you!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: So a misuse!]] Austria has the Presidency in the European Union on 1 January. This year, and from the outset, we have set ourselves the goal of being a working presidency, that it should not be a presidency of representing, but rather of coordinating and deciding, especially in three ways: Employment, internal security and the role of Europe in the world. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In this context, Pörtschach and Vienna stand for a new dynamic in the European Union. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] You may smile at the Vienna Strategy today: However, they will have to observe in the history of the European Union that this is the success recipe of the future. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: What is the "Vienna Strategy"?]] If in the future, in the next two or three semesters, one of the most busy sections in the history of the European Union will be mentioned in the next presidencies, then the Vienna Presidency is, then the "Wiener Strategy" is meant. And this, ladies and gentlemen, is something we are proud of and for which we would like to thank German Chancellors climate and Vice-Chancellor Schüssel. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] They must also take account of the functioning of the European Union in this context. Ladies and gentlemen! Successes, decisions, decisions in the European Union have never been the result of Pentecostal experiences, but always the result of a hard struggle for commonness. For good reason, there has always been a previous destination definition, a time definition and usually a decision in the last minute. These three criteria have been met in a wide range of areas at the Vienna Summit number one and number two, namely target definition and time definition. That is what Europe has brought forward in recent years and decades, namely the pressure to succeed, on which all 15 members have agreed. Ladies and gentlemen! In this context, the European Union, among the majority of socially democratically dominated governments, has not rested on laurels. It must be noted that 1.7 million new jobs have been created in recent times. [[Abg. Boy: Where?]] Only to describe the dimension of this size of additional jobs: Ladies and gentlemen! This is more than half of the total Austrian labour market in additional jobs! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] It has not been satisfied that, for the first time since 1992, the unemployment rate has returned to less than 10 per cent, but, quite the contrary, has been the centre of these activities, these efforts of the European Union under the Austrian Presidency: Employment, employment and employment again! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] High house! I clearly remember that an Austrian Chancellor came back from the "his" first European summit and reported that at that time a head of government of a neighbouring country, the German Chancellor Kohl of the Federal Republic of Germany, expressed the conviction: Employment policy is not a European dimension! The result of the Vienna Summit, ladies and gentlemen, is exactly the opposite: Employment policy has absolute priority! [[Abg. May. That's not new! Did you sleep the Luxembourg Summit?]] This is the outcome of the Vienna Summit, and it will be implemented in the next few months. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] But not only the summit of Pörtschach and the summit of Vienna were essential, there was also significant progress in the transit question. Ladies and gentlemen! The Swiss Treaty finalises a further area in the transit question. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Don't forget to turn around! You have the wrong talk with me!]] We have gained an advantage in this regard and have ensured that transit traffic is minimized through Austria. With the Euro-Vignette, the proceedings before the European Court of Justice are also out of the table, thus removing a risk for Austria. For the future of Europe, however, the 5th is also the European Union. Framework programme on research and development of major importance. In four years, from 1999 to 2002, a total of ECU 15 billion, which is 207 billion schilling, will be spent on research and development. Ladies and gentlemen! That's more than 50 billion schilling a year! This is precisely the incentive to preserve and preserve the Europe that the European economy, but also the European labour market, needs to take advantage of. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The official commissioning of EUROPOL ensures an enhanced fight against drug trafficking, trafficking in human beings, vehicle sliding and money laundering. This also gives an important impetus to the more massive fight against international crime. In the Council of Ministers of Culture, far-reaching decisions have also been taken. Negotiations with a total of six countries on integration into the European Union will be conducted in a mixture of confidence and realism. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] There is no question at all, ladies and gentlemen, that these negotiations can only be conducted from the perspective and that these countries should be brought forward step by step towards European economic development, social development and income before a return to the European Union is meaningful and can take place. Ladies and gentlemen! What has succeeded in this Vienna summit, which was chaired by Austria in the European Union, is that a new beginning has been made not only in the field of employment policy, but also in the investment of infrastructure, in the mechanisms of economic policy coordination from the beginning of the Luxembourg process through the Vienna Strategy. There will be a tax pact in the second half of next year which will ensure the harmonisation of taxes in Europe, and finally, Mr Schweitzer, environmental policy has been integrated into the policies of the European Union. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: What?]] But this seems to be indifferent to you as an environmental politician. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This increasing dynamic in the European Union is bordering on ignorance. In this context, I would like to stress once again: The Austrian Presidency is a success for Europe, a national success. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! You must be careful not to negotiate the accusation that, despite all the successes for Austria and Europe, you are opposed to the Presidency only because you were not sufficiently involved. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Rarely so laughing!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Presidency of Austria in the European Union is internationally recognised. If foreign parliamentarians do so, for example, if the Belgian President of the First Chamber does so, then you will not fall a stone out of the crown if you do. And in this regard, I'm allowed to... [[Call the liberals:Gerhard Schröder!]] – They say: Gerhard Schröder. Quote: "Only the remarkable framework and charm of Vienna" "as well as the extremely good preparation of German climates and the Austrian government have not allowed malicious controversy." [[Abg. Haigermoser: Was the trout blue or miller?]] – Ladies and gentlemen! This is Schröder in the original text. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Prolonged calls to the liberals.]] And if you doubt our words, another quote. Santer: "I am extremely satisfied with the course of the Austrian EU Presidency. The Vienna strategies adopted at the summit set new impetus. It aimed at coordinating the social economy and tax policy and includes the task of the Employment Pact." - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen! That is the future of Europe! What you're doing is mess-making – not least across from Austria. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: The pig roastl was juicy that you ate!]] In this context, I have not yet talked about human rights, which are to be given a solution, about facilitating access to justice, about the area of freedom, security and justice to be created in Europe. Ladies and gentlemen! In Vienna many first steps were taken. I mentioned at the outset: The first steps are the most important in the European Union. The Vienna Summit, the Presidency of Austria in the European Union, represents a trend towards employment policy. It is a new start for Europe, a start for the Europe of Citizens, and it is also an extensive work programme. Ladies and gentlemen! What the Austrian Federal Government has achieved under the excellent chairmanship of German Chancellor Klima and Vice-Chancellor Schüssel is something that brings Europe a significant step forward. On behalf of my group, I would like to thank you for that.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e9518	In response to the question, Mr Bundeskanzler Mag. Climate report. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e9542	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased that I have the opportunity, following the discussions in the European Parliament – part of our role in the Presidency – to discuss with you in the Austrian Parliament the question of the Austrian Presidency. I would also like to thank you for understanding that we did not already do this tomorrow, but a few hours later, but I assume that every Parliament in this world would probably have understood it if the Federal Chancellor and the Deputy Chancellor had represented Austria as part of the presidential task today in the European Parliament. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to make a detailed comment, which is of fundamental importance. I think it is very good that in the European Union, there is the principle that every six months another country, whether large or small, takes on the same presidency, a principle which ensures a co-existence of democratically equivalent states in a Union, in a community, not a directorate, an upper and lower, but a co-existence of equal states. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] That is why I am glad to say that the first Austrian Presidency, the first Presidency of a new Member State of the European Union, was successful in what we have done, namely to be a working presidency, a presidency which, in hundreds of Council working groups, in 50 Councils, has been able to deal with many problems in two summits, has been able to identify numerous solutions and has spread Europe in all policy areas. This has been possible through the dedicated cooperation, the good preparation, the good organization of hundreds of public service employees, through the good cooperation within the government, without a party-political hack, is thus a merit of the employees of the public service and this coalition government. And I thank all employees for this. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] All of you have done excellent work, and it would be good for you if you, too, honoured the good work, the excellent organization of Austrian officials, the employees of the public service in Austria with an applause. [[towards the freedom of movement]] They won't be happy if you don't. [[Abg. Scheibner: We don't need any teachings!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Give the pipe out of hand!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that this was a work presidency, I believe, is also evidenced by the fact that we have many problems – not all of them! – could solve. I would remind you, for example, that it was possible to resolve the hotly disputed, long debated question of the legal basis for the NGOs' social programmes and aid programmes, the NGOs. I also remember that it was possible to have the 5th. Framework Programme for Research and Development – hot fights! - to provide a solution. I would remind you that it was possible to create the transit system in the transport sector and, as a result, to solve the whole of the Swiss package, a success of the Foreign Minister. I would remind you that it was possible to provide a solution to the 1999 budget, which was also hotly disputed in the European Parliament. And I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that, due to the Austrian commitment and due to the great commitment of the Austrian Foreign Minister, it has succeeded in reaching an agreement among all 15 states to start concrete negotiations with six candidate countries. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Yes, these operational successes are already worth a applause! And because the code word "Mr" or "Mr CFSP", "Mrs." or "Mr CFSP" has fallen: Of course, we would have preferred to be able to solve this question too, but there is no point in passing the reality that until the Vienna Summit, unfortunately, not all the Member States – and this is truly outside our scope of action – have already been ratified by the Treaty of Amsterdam, for example, but will not be ratified by France until February, March next year. Therefore, all those states that did not want to have a good basis for their argumentation. But we would have liked to have decided this – I say that quite clearly, openly and soberly – in Vienna. What we could not influence, however, is that the French do not ratify. Ladies and gentlemen! But what we – and I believe this will be very clear in the coming months – have experienced during the Austrian Presidency is a turning point in the European Union's policy. I remember exactly the days at the last summit in Cardiff and afterwards. Many words – including some of you – have raised concerns about what will be the common market and the common currency: Will there be a break, a stop to European integration, a stop from deepening the common system? Will there be a renationalization, a life apart? Ladies and gentlemen! The most sustainable result of the Austrian Presidency is that we have achieved a very clear and clear orientation of the policy of the European Union on those issues that people have the most – and rightly so! – touch. We said quite clearly: We want a common European employment policy. We all want to increase internal security together in Europe by working together in the fight against organised crime, which operates internationally, and by, for example, solving the migration problem together in Europe. Ladies and gentlemen! I can recall very well that some of you were criticised when I asked British Prime Minister Tony Blair to hold a meeting on the ideas of European identity in the field of security policy. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Today we get it again!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Let us be glad that we have a urgent one!]] High house! Under the Austrian EU Presidency, a discussion process was launched to ensure what we all want, namely a strong political role of a strong Europe in the world! That will be the sustainable success! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It has also been spoken here and today by the European Council. At the time when I first participated, it was quite unthinkable to talk about the fact that employment policy also has a European dimension. Of course, we know that employment policy must be made nationally in order to support businesses. But what is now clear, very clear and clear, is that we have a common European commitment to act in a common European way to support the competitiveness of the European economy in support of European companies and thus the creation of jobs in Europe. And this is the success of this Austrian EU Presidency, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] If you really try to analyse all this objectively, then you will be able to see that one or two years ago it was almost unthinkable to keep in the conclusions of a summit that employment has top priority in Europe. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] We have said that, in addition to a Stability Pact, there will also be an employment pact in Europe, and we have made a commitment to the fact that we pursue an economic policy in Europe not only in the sense of structural policy, but also in order to ensure the structural competitiveness of Europe, not only through labour market policies, through training and skills of workers at work, but also through a balanced mix of stability and growth policies. The commitment that, without jeopardising stability, growth can bring work to Europe is an essential effect! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It was in no way clear from the outset that we will succeed in stating in these conclusions that there must be additional verifiable targets for employment success in the individual Member States in the Employment Pact. Some of them say they're disappointed, but that's not quantified inside. – We said: There are quantifiable but also qualitative objectives. That is why we have agreed in this sense on verifiable objectives in employment policy, in the sense of a commitment by the countries themselves, similar to those set out in the Stability Pact. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What is particularly important to me in terms of the coordination of economic policy is the following: As you know, we start on 1st. January 1999 with the euro. It was an excellent achievement of the Austrian Minister of Finance to address the controversial question of how this Euro-11 group will establish itself in order to make a better economic policy, without drawing lines to the pre-ins. It is a success in Austria that this Euro-11 group could easily be set up as a coordination body. It is also a success in Austria that, for the first time in Europe, there will be a common representation in relation to the euro externally, as a strong weapon in the world currency system, as a strong weapon to support the European economy and employment. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It may seem that there is nothing to do with employment policy at first, if we are aware of the European position on the reform of the world currency system, the reform of the International Monetary Fund, the European position on the reform of the early warning system in the world currency system. What does this have to do with employment policy? – We have seen very well in the financial crises in Malaysia, Indonesia, but also in Brazil, for example, what this has to do with: As a result of the apparently unforeseen speculative actions, entire economies have been destroyed, with massive negative effects on exports, on jobs in Europe as well. Therefore, there will also be a strong European voice in the field of world financial systems in the future in order to enforce our social market economy model there too. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Or, ladies and gentlemen: Furthermore, consider the question of coordination in tax policy! Would you have thought it possible that the conclusions of the Vienna Summit now state that we commit ourselves to finding, within half a year, a political agreement on a European model of interest-rate taxes on capital income? [[Intercession with the liberals.]] What does this have to do with employment policy, do you think? – Dear ladies and gentlemen! If we do not succeed in preventing unfair tax competition and tax dumping in a common market with a common currency, then the consequence will be that the burden of financing the State will only be borne by consumers and workers - at the expense of work! – and that capital and other mobile factors are completely excluded from taxation. Therefore: This too is an important success of the Austrian EU Presidency. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Something which, I know, some of you are not so concerned about at all, was also a great success in the Austrian Presidency, namely strengthening social dialogue at European level. We have now reached the agreement that, on the employer side, small and medium-sized enterprises are as involved as industrial firms. We have agreed at our meeting here in Vienna – and this has been stated in the conclusions – that the social partners will now be responsible for jobs in a joint dialogue at European level and for common solutions in the field of work organisation. This is something that would have been completely unthinkable a year ago. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! At European level, we will continue what has proved successful in Austria, namely the social dialogue between workers and employers – something that has brought peace and prosperity to our country! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Please look at the action plan on freedom, security and justice, as you will notice what has been prepared under the Austrian EU Presidency and what has been decided in Vienna on concrete measures to strengthen internal security in the European Union! And this is also the second most important issue – according to the topic of jobs – that interests people in Europe: joint efforts in the fight against organised crime. We decided in Vienna to set up a working group dealing with the issue of migration and asylum policy in Europe, because a country alone cannot do so. However, it is a European obligation to continue granting asylum to those people who need asylum and therefore to find a reasonable system by which the burdens in the European Union are fairly distributed, thus a model that strengthens European security. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We are very often criticized for not being able to reach an agreement on Agenda 2000, financial reforms. - Let's be honest: In June of this year, 15 Heads of State and Government decided that they wanted to reach this agreement under the German Presidency in March 1999. It has been precisely defined what Austria has to do during its EU Presidency in these areas. And what we have done can really be seen! We have worked together in dozens of Council working groups on all legal texts and technical texts and now we have them. We have also reached agreement in the area of pre-accession strategies, there is only one reservation. We have reached agreement on the financing of trans-European networks and the guarantee funds. It is also foreseeable in which direction the Structural Funds are moving in agreement. – But the following must be kept in mind clearly and clearly: An agreement on the overall package will not be possible until the last days of March 1999. What we have added – and this was an excellent performance of our ministers – is that we have presented a political paper, so to speak, of the key arguments for resolving Agenda 2000 and have taken into account all the alternatives at the table. [[Intercession with the liberals.]] We have thus fulfilled what was imposed on us by the Cardiff Summit in 1999 in this area too. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! From my point of view - apologise for adding this to me - what has also been very positive has been to maintain this momentum of enlargement of the European Union. We have a good report from the Commission, but with regard to some states, one has to say this openly, there is little dynamic in the implementation of their reform processes, but with regard to other countries, reform processes are very, very welcome. We have not only managed to start concrete accession negotiations with six countries, but we have also managed to start the bilateral acquis examinations immediately in order to maintain this momentum in the enlargement of the European Union. We have achieved two things in addition: In these papers it is the first time that "nuclear security" has been mentioned in the context of an EU enlargement, and something we have long wanted to see social convergence in this enlargement process. During our presidency, we have also done the following two things: Firstly, to confirm the clear vision, the political perspective that we need for a common and peaceful Europe, this gradual enlargement, and secondly, that we must prepare this enlargement process in a realistic way – and we can guarantee this – that it will be a success for the people of the European Union and for the people of the candidate countries – and not, so to speak, a programmed failure, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] But I believe – and I conclude by saying this – that: With regard to all the many technical problems that could be solved, unfortunately not some, we should not forget what the top objective of this Austrian Presidency, a new member country of the European Union, was to make it clear to the people of Europe that there are European needs over a market, beyond a currency. We have become aware that we have to show successful policies to people in Europe in the field of employment, internal security and quality of life, because then people will feel a little more for the European soul. It is a success of the Austrian Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, that we have not allowed any renationalisation, no dispersal of Europe. And I would also like to add the following: It may have been very unpleasant three, four, or five years ago, if the image of Europe was dominated by disputes, a separation and so on. There was also often talk of "euro-sclerosis". That may have been unpleasant at the time. [[Intercession with the liberals.]] Now, ladies and gentlemen, from 1st. In January 1999, if we were to have a common European currency, this would not only be unpleasant, but would even have adverse consequences for our European currency, for the economy and for employment. That is why I am proud of the fact that our employees have succeeded in signaling the Austrian Presidency as a successful Presidency of the European Union, the orientation, openness and also a mutual commitment to our goal of promoting a common, stable and peaceful Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e9750	Thank you very much, Mr Bundeskanzler. For business treatment, Mr Mag. Stadler to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e9775	Mr President. I have listened carefully to this about half-hourly speech by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany. I have at least tried to interpret many of his words so as to see them as an answer to questions, but I have at least missed an answer to the three urgent questions raised by the questioner Kostelka and comrades. I therefore assume that the Federal Chancellor will answer this urgent question in writing, and I request that this written reply be sent to the Members of the House.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e9802	For business treatment: Mr. Klubobmann Kostelka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e9823	Mr President. I would point out that our first question was about the results of the Austrian EU Presidency. The second question relates to the employment strategy, the third question to the balance sheet which can be drawn from it. All these questions have been addressed by the Federal Chancellor, who is quite specific. The only thing that was missing, Mr President, was that he did not expressly pronounce paragraphs 1, 2 and 3, but I am happy to hand this over to Mr Stadler.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e9868	There are no further statements on business treatment. I recall that now according to § 93 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure are available to each speaker for a maximum of 10 minutes in speaking time; each club has a total speaking time of 25 minutes. According to § 19 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Speech time: 10 minutes. - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e9895	Mr President. High house! The assessment of a Presidency is, of course, relatively positive for the country holding the Presidency. That's always the way it is. But the immeasurable, objective observers from the outside also judge us. If, for example, an editorial can be found in the Financial Times today, which describes Austria's accession to the European Union and says that Austria was actually a rather isolated outsider ten years ago and has now returned to the centre of European politics and has given an excellent Presidency in the Union, this is not a incense, not self- praise, but an assessment that can be grateful and, I believe, a positive one. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Of course, we have put forward this presidency – I say it in advance – so that all the speakers who come after it really appreciate this argument as well, as we both understand it – as a team presidency. This is not a personality show for the Federal Chancellor and/or the Foreign Minister, but there are all the specialist ministers involved, there is an excellent team of 200 to 300 experienced negotiators, diplomats, foreign representatives who, in my opinion, have done really well. The fact that we were able to conclude the Swiss Treaty, for example, was crucial to the contribution of the Minister of Transport. On the other hand, the whole package would not have been possible if it had not been finished by the Foreign Minister. The Commission's contribution must not be forgotten either. I think that is also the art of a good presidency, that one does not believe in reinventing the wheel itself or even having to re-found the Union, or that everything that is now good was only created by us alone, but: There was an opportunity, and I believe that we have benefited quite well by pooling the valuable knowledge and power of the Commission, but also the contribution of the European Parliamentarians, so that some good, rather spectacular successes have actually been possible. The question of the legal basis for the promotion of NGOs has already been mentioned. This is, please, a subject that has been open for 15 years. We have brought together a result, because we have also taken great care of Parliament and the Commission. At this point, I would also like to congratulate the organisation team, and, because it is not here today, but is still in Strasbourg – because the debate continues in the European Parliament – I really would like to highlight the contribution made by Mrs State Secretary Benita Ferrero-Waldner, who has awarded this task and who has conducted these interinstitutional things, these very complicated negotiations. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Viktor Klima has rightly pointed out: The Austrian Presidency falls into a fence, and this really important issue is the date 1. January 1999, the introduction of the euro. One will later, in retrospect, divide the time of the Union into the time before the introduction of the euro and into the time afterwards. Of course, it was not that we were able to guarantee a gentle, professional and absolutely stable date for the introduction of the euro during the times of the financial crises in the world – Asia, Russia, Latin America. The fact that 14 days ago a concerted interest rate reduction by all European national banks was possible is also a clear proof that this project is believed. We – the Presidency with the 15 Member States plus the Commission and the ECB – have clearly stated that a strong currency, price stability and the agreement of an employment commitment are not just a dream of wish, but reality! We – British and Austrian – have done this this year. There are over 1.5 million more jobs in Europe at the end of this year than before. We have created more new jobs than the Americans. So the European model is alive! And it is important to dispute such a thing together, because that gives us hope for the future. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] The second issue is that, if we want to have the largest economic area in the world and one of the strongest currencies – and this is beyond dispute – Europe, as a global player, obviously also needs a common strong external representation in politics, as well as a security and defence dimension. There have been no decisions on this point in the Austrian Presidency, but in retrospect everyone will see that the course has actually been set correctly here. [[Abg. Scheibner: Zero!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: You have ordered a ban on discussion here for Parliament! That was a unique performance!]] Until the election in Germany, it was clear that this new high-level representative of foreign policy should not actually be a politician. After the Austrian Presidency is clear – we were already clear –: This must be a credible, highly professional European foreign policy! Only in this way can Europe have weight on the world stage! That's clear, that's decided – the person not yet, but the profile. It is also on the question of the security and defence dimension. Of course, it was not the Austrian Presidency alone. We've been lucky, too. Some of us have taken a great deal of risk, because this whole thing could have become a debacle and has been criticized at the beginning. We have for the first time invited all 15 Ministers of Defence of the Union to Vienna. We were subsequently congratulated in the European Parliament on this initiative. We were the first to engage in political dialogue at the highest level with the Western European Union as owners of the Presidency of the Union. I was the first to start an official political dialogue with the NATO Secretary-General, with the approval of all 15. You can say that should have happened earlier. Right! But we have done it, we have taken the risk, and the orientation discussions and the British-French initiative have proved that we have changed something. This is important for us, and this is also important for Europe. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] One of my aims was – and even here we are at risk – that we want to give ourselves a greater visibility, a greater profile in the world crisis zones or in the European crisis zones – and I expect the Mediterranean region/the Middle East to do so. Of course, I have not yet been able to realize my dream. Everyone has dreamed, and my dream would have been that we can celebrate the beginning of political negotiations, for example, in Kosovo before Christmas, which is not a blunder. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Kurzmann]] That would have been incredibly important, because it cannot be enough for us to bring back some hundred thousand refugees in need, but the time is running away, and in spring it can start again. [[Abg. Scheibner: These are the Americans again!]] It is a pity that this has not yet been achieved. I still don't give up hope – 14 days we still have time. But in our presidency, for the first time, an EU representative, the Austrian Wolfgang Petritsch, is in this region and even has money, that is, 50 million euros – that is a lot of money: around 600 or 700 million schilling – to at least bring refugees over the winter. We play a role here, and today the European Parliament has awarded Ibrahim Rugova the Sakharov Prize because we also want to consciously support the peaceful forces in Kosovo. We were the ones who brought all the Serbian opposition to Vienna together to encourage a democratic alternative to tackle the fight against dictators. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] I think we can be very proud of this presence and visibility of the European Union. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Young.]] We have not only remained in the theory of orientation discussion, but rather have tried to overtake the theory through practice. Today, if half of Kosovo's verifiers arrive in Kosovo by the end of December, they are made up of two thirds of EU citizens. If a NATO-extraction force is formed for security in Macedonia, it is made up of 100 percent NATO soldiers. That is to say, the European model of a security policy, a military component designed to dampen regional conflicts, takes shape. That this has gained shape in the Austrian Presidency, we have already contributed to it – I think we can say that without false modesty. In the Middle East question, by the invitation of President Arafat, we gave this one the chance to raise the voice of Palestine in front of the 15 Heads of Government immediately after the Washington conference. I myself went to this region, then traveled to six countries, the European Union represented in Washington at the Donors Conference. We have shown that we are ready to support the peace process as the largest donor of the world in the future. In other words, foreign policy has been peacekeeping, active peacekeeping for us. And I think that very little Austria can be quite proud of this European contribution. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] One...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e10012	Please ask for the final sentence, Mr Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e10027	One of our most important issues will be Russia. On Monday, we were able to ensure that food aid amounting to EUR 400 million was decided for Russia. It is already approved by the European Parliament in the rapid procedure. We have brought the Swiss Treaty under the umbrella and specialise, a highly successful conference with SADC, and we have for the first time developed a profile for human rights. I hope that the German EU Presidency will continue this: with an annual human rights report and with a human rights agency that hopefully will be in Vienna.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e10060	Mr Arbitrator has also been mentioned in the speech. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e10082	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Don't go to court too sharply!]] The Presidency in the EU was not only a new thing for our country, for the Federal Chancellor, the Foreign Minister, for the government, a premiere: It was also a new situation for Parliament – and certainly for the opposition in Parliament – and a new experience for all of us. What is it like in the half-year of a presidency? So we had to ask ourselves, so the Members had to ask themselves. Can the government be completely left out of all parliamentarians at this time? To what extent can it be bound in EU matters if the members of the government are also bound to chairmen and all countries? How far can you burden them with dates? To what extent can it be demanded that, when they have to be in Strasbourg, they are here in Parliament at the same time? At the beginning of all the political groups in this House, it showed a very strong willingness – and I would like to mention this – to address, for example, the definition of budget debates, budget creation and so on, the fact that Austria is presiding over the fact that the government, especially German Chancellors and Vice-Presidents, is carrying out certain tasks for the EU and that we also have a little to do with it in our work. I would like to thank all the groups in this House for their willingness to do so. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The question was: Will this technical willingness, which has been shown, continue when it comes to assessing objectively how this Presidency was half-yearly? Will all of this be assessed objectively in the interests of our country? Or will the next election year be presuming its shadows that, for example, one will no longer be prepared to say on the part of the opposition, that was a good presidency because one already wants to get capital out for the next election battles? So I had to say and wish to thank you very sincerely for this initial willingness, so much so in the assessment, I have the feeling that, for reasons of our own profiling for the next year, it is not said objectively, which is also to be said here in Parliament: Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Thank you as well as the entire Federal Government and thousands of Austrian employees for this successful work that you have done not only for our country, but also for our country in Europe! [[Abg. Dr. Kurzmann: Isn't that embarrassing to you?]] We are proud that we, as Austrians, were able to achieve this so well! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] This is appreciated abroad. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Accordingly!]] There, where one sees the possibilities, where one sees the size of the countries, where one can compare with the great predecessor England et cetera, it is rightly pointed out that this Austrian Presidency can be seen in both execution, technology, negotiating skills and results. I know, here's sometimes the argument: Well, that was a dancing congress. – This quote is only half reflected, because it was said: The congress dances, but it does not move. On the other hand, it has certainly been important for our country to show that this conference also fits into the picture of the standard of a culture that our country wants to show in terms of tourism and other things, because it benefits all over Europe. It was, however, a presidency or, if I may stick to this picture, a congress that danced and moved in terms of content. It was experience and result. It was a result not only for the States and governments, but also for the people of this continent, especially on the employment issue. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] There has been progress in this important sector, there has also been great progress in other sectors. Despite Mr CFSP or Mr CFSP, progress has also been made in the field of foreign policy. There is a situation in Agenda 2000 where it is clearer how the countries behave. The question of enlargement was kept in motion. Things have been put on the agenda, in which it seemed unthinkable two years ago that one will deal with them in the EU. Finally, I must say that from this point of view, it was also a Presidency which not only saw Parliament's commitments as a nuisance but also seriously fulfilled the following: Presidency vis-à-vis the EP, the Federal Chancellor and Foreign Minister in relation to the meeting of the Chairmen of the Foreign Policy Committees, the Presidents of Parliament and the COSAC. All the interfaces between Parliamentary institutions and the Presidency have thus worked well, better than in recent years, in terms of content matters as well. It's been well worked there. Thank you for that too! This has also contributed to the serious taking of Austria as a whole, its institutions, its government and its Parliament in Europe. It was a presidency that helped us, the people, the country in Europe. That, I think, is the most beautiful thing you can say about such a half year.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e10181	Mr Dr. Mock has now come to speak. Maximum speaking time: 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e10202	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is appropriate for each of these debates to see things differentiated. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Yes!]] The more differentiated we assess the results, the greater the credibility in the public for what we have worked for. [[Demonstrative applause at the Liberal Forum.]] In this sense, it is no question that the leadership of the Presidency of the European Union through Austria, including the General Council, the Council of Europe, chaired by German Chancellors and Vice-Chancellors, was a remarkable success for Austria, for work itself and for our reputation in Europe. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would also like to express my strong thanks to the Federal Government for the fact that the ministers of industry were very often involved. In addition, it is precisely the sectors which have not been spoiled by recognition and legitimate compliments, such as diplomatic service, executive or general civil service, that have shown that we can be proud of these employees. I was spontaneously addressed about the organization of former acquaintances. We all know, ladies and gentlemen: If an organization doesn't work if it doesn't work, if you come too late or too early, doesn't meet the partner, then the climate is broken, so that you can't move on in the content. I would also like to thank these groups in particular for doing exceptional things for safety and for the organization. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Of course, it must be said that some things have also been stopped or little further moved in the substance. It must also be said openly that if the "great" agree there, we must do some things only in March or June next year, we cannot be expected to be able to do so. We need to analyze this and explain that we understand it. Let us take the difficult chapter of a common security and foreign policy. I would particularly like to thank the Vice-Chancellor for what he has done in Kosovo. That we still have no peace, but at least a ceasefire, which will allow the people to survive winter, perhaps somewhat human – or less inhuman – for this particular commitment, I thank the Vice-Cancellor on behalf of the poor citizens of this country, who are still in danger of being confronted with hundreds of dead, new refugees and the like every day. But there is now a ceasefire. We are grateful, Mr Vice-Chancellor, that you have brought it so far. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Of course, we would like the European Union to intervene forcefully in such a case. The position of human rights alone today gives the opportunity to intervene without having to endure formalisms of sovereignty for a long time. Only, ladies and gentlemen, a common foreign policy is the most difficult thing to bring together in Europe. I personally believe that it will take at least one whole generation until there will be a uniform, powerful activity on major issues of conflict. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] That is why I think it makes sense for the European Union to focus very much on the medium and smaller conflicts in Kosovo, in Albania, wherever they happen – there are enough examples in Europe –. There is a great deal to be done, both in the prevention of conflicts and afterwards in the reconstruction process. A certain amount of Albania's reconstruction can work very quickly, is perceived as spectacular. The same amount in a major conflict situation, such as that in Russia, in the former Soviet Union, is less than a drop on the hot stone. But one could start by showing that we can solve smaller conflicts already. We have to talk to others, we have to decide, but we are not yet an independent force. This will be even longer, but it has already been achieved spectacular in common in Europe, when I think that 40, 50 years ago one was faced with hatred or war. I believe that a sober assessment of foreign policy and security policy has been made. On the question of employment: Mr Bundeskanzler, I share your view on the emphasis you attach to this question – also that social policy and employment policy are a part of the security policy to the greatest extent. But we are already in a little danger – I have written this out – with the desire for national action plans. These should lead to a joint employment report. It shall be notified: Next year we will conclude an employment pact. – Then there is the danger that people will say: There are always new agreements, but we never hear figures and numbers what this has brought us. The fact that general policy has focused on it and, as you and Mr Vice-Chancellor have also said, has helped to improve the situation is right, but the EU has announced too much to be fully credible at the moment that something would have changed in this regard due to the EU's influence. We need to see this more soberly, otherwise we lose credibility. For me, it's not a question anyway: There is no area of policy for Europe where solidarity and social policy are not to be present. I can't imagine any other policy. Even if one analyzes the statements of the founders and reads with them, in addition to the goal of peace, social engagement played an important role in all, because ultimately all these policies have to serve people. – So much on the employment issue. There is another area in which much has gone on, namely in transport policy through the agreement with Switzerland. Everyone knows how persistent negotiations have been conducted for years, how few months ago there were the chances of progress. I believe that this is a remarkable success that we too can be proud of. The Swiss Foreign Minister has expressed very soberly – one of the characteristic traits of the Swiss being to be sober – that Austria has made a valuable contribution in the sense of neighborhood aid. Ladies and gentlemen! If I do not mention such dangerous issues as the Middle East and what has taken place in East Asia – the direct and indirect influences of the financial crises – this is done out of a series of priorities. What happens in our closer surroundings is still more important for our security, for our future than what is happening far away from us. This is not against globalisation; I myself explained to my area after accession to the European Union that Asia must become a priority of our foreign policy. This line has also been continued, and this will remain so despite the difficulties. One must have visions – that is why one must not be sent to the doctor for a long time – but at the same time realism, and reality shows that what is happening in the neighborhood is the most important thing for the security of our country. I come to the question of enlargement. I regard it as a great success that is now beginning to negotiate. We have a huge potential for credibility in the candidate countries. But this can also quickly turn into a deficit. Not that there will be no difficulties – there will be difficulties in this context; we must, for example, pay attention to the fears of the citizens – but these will be manageable. We have dealt with them in the past and will now also deal with them if there is a high level of commonness. Just as the government can point to a number of things that have served the good of Austria and also the reputation of the Federal Government, it must be noted that there are a number of specific objectives which have not been achieved so quickly. There is also a control area for the opposition, as it can reschedule. She's not here to praise, but to drive. Everyone has his job in democracy. I am therefore quite optimistic that we will also be dealing with this phase again. I believe that the summit in Vienna and the Presidency of Austria have been a great success for our country, an important contribution to getting closer to a common peaceful Europe that we can ultimately all be proud of.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e10266	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Haider. The speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e10287	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! We have today wondered that the large government party must make a urgent request to its Federal Chancellor from its own party in order to explore urgently what actually happened to results at this EU summit and during the previous six months. This shows once again that there seems to be a fairly discreet result, which is not easy to discover. The Federal Chancellor also presented it in very cloudy words. I am not yet quite aware of what it really is, but at least he has tried to explain a result to us. Mr Kostelka, in his speech, I think, took it very seriously when he said: If one of the most busy periods of a presidency starts now, it is due to this Vienna strategy. – That is to say, you have solved so few problems that the Germans now have their hands full to finally start solving what you left to solve. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is how it is in the German newspapers!]] This is also the case in the German newspapers. In a Spanish newspaper you can read: The Vienna Summit will go into history as the moment in which the train cannot continue, because the locusts do not agree on what route they should continue on. – This is not so wrong, because I really believe that this lack of orientation was a reason why there has not been any noticeable concrete results in employment policy, security policy and finance issues as the central issues. It has nothing to do with your people. You're always a little personally offended if you don't celebrate everything. We say quite clearly: You've worked a lot, you've been on a lot of road. Mr Schüssel went on the plane and negotiated day and night. The Federal Chancellor has done twice a tour of the Capitale to visit all the Heads of State and Government, but it is embarrassing to make a tour of the Capitale, visit the French President Chirac, visit Mr Schröder the next day, and then you come home and find a letter that Chirac and Schröder wrote to you because they did not want to tell you what was being negotiated at the conference. So I'm really wondering, What kind of communication is that with you? – Everyone is going to visit each other, and after that, you only write a lot of letters to express what is really to be done. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Interference of Federal Chancellor Mag. Climate.]] You'd probably be a good travel agent, Mr. Federal Chancellor. [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] Excellent! Travel agency Schüssel, Klima & Co with limited liability, and the taxpayers pay. That would be a success! There you can come for free on vacation to Austria, and there you can take class-bound dinners. You had 1st and 2nd class dinners. Imperially, it happened. How at the Kaiserhof! As in Habsburg's best times, there has been a 1st-class menu for the Heads of Government and a 2nd-class menu for the other diplomacy. Among new social-democratic majority in Europe, this is an interesting feudalist turn, which is announcing itself here. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Close to citizens!]] I believe that what commentators have written about the summit, namely "flat", "disappointing", "poor", are not the criticisms of the opposition, but these are the voices of the domestic and foreign press that you place so much importance on. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dietachmayr]] Flat, disappointing, poor! – It has actually not gone much further, because the only thing that really started is the negotiations on the enlargement of the East. But that's exactly what we Austrians don't want. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The Easter enlargement is not at all foreseeable in its dimension today. I cannot agree with Mr Vice-Chancellor when he says on every occasion that it will cost about 1,000 billion schillings, which we have to pay to make these neighbouring countries mature for the EU. – Mr Vice-Chancellor! The idea of a free trade area, of access to the free market of the EU is another. If a person can participate in a larger market, then the advantage is enough, then he must not be financed. This is a gross misunderstanding. And this is the money we are going to spend in Austria to fix the structures, to reduce taxes in Austria, to speed up economic growth in Austria and to create new jobs in Austria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I also did not understand that one could not agree on some kind of concrete. It is about jobs, that is right, Mr Bundeskanzler, but then it really does not understand why all the conferences have such a high profile. In every photo, in every report, one sees each other hugging, smiling, friendly, happy politicians. 17 million unemployed, that's a crazy Gaudi! 17 million unemployed people – the conferences are going crazy! It must be so happy to be able to manage these 17 million unemployed. You're going here now and you're saying, It's gotten less! – Falses You're not the public! Part-time jobs have become part-time jobs from full-time jobs and all-day jobs. This is the type of employment policy that now prevails in Europe. That's what we have in Austria. That is why the unemployment rate is rising, so you have the problem of long-term unemployed, and that is why enlargement of the East is so dangerous for Austria because it will lead to an inflow of cheap workers into Austria in a hundred thousand times more. Cheap workers will be forced into expensive Austrian workers from their jobs, and then you will have no prescription, ladies and gentlemen, to control this problem! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] For this reason, I believe it would be a good idea to tackle at least some of the points that the EU itself proposes. Read the minutes of the EU Commission! Read the proposals of the EU Presidency itself, the guidelines for employment policy! There it is to be read: Only a drastic reduction in taxes will lead to more employment in Europe. – Those countries that do this, for example Holland, Great Britain, Ireland and Spain, have the best employment situation. Now you can turn it and turn it as you like. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hums.]] Low taxes lead to an increase in employment, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Spain has made a massive cut in taxes. [[Abg. Marizzi: Nobody has the flat tax! But no one has the flat tax!]] Spain also benefits from the Cohesion Fund, which you still grant them, although it has actually fulfilled the Maastricht criteria. – This is also a contradiction in itself; we would have liked to have discussed these things. [[Interference of Federal Chancellor Mag. Climate.]] Yes, Federal Chancellor, 20 percent unemployment in Spain, it goes downhill. [[new interim remark by Federal Chancellor Mag. Climate]] However, if you attach such great importance to the fact that we are talking about the real numbers of unemployed, you expect all the forced early pensioners in Austria to do so, then you will come to 16 per cent unemployment in Austria, as the Wifo has also said. Then you no longer need to be very proud of the fact that this is a sign of a particularly excellent policy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I therefore believe that it would be more reasonable for us, as a country holding the EU Presidency, to respect a certain role as a model. Had you developed a tax vision! What you've put on the table is more modest. They promise 30 billion schillings, of which 12 billion shillings have been applied to you by the Constitutional Court – that is not voluntary – and 9 billion schillings get you over the reduction of overtime, about the removal of special expenses. That is, the workers pay for their own tax reduction themselves, and with 9 billion schilling you will compensate for the cold progression. – You can forget that again because the tax rate will not decrease. These are the things that irritate people and the reason why they ultimately have doubts as to whether all of what you have said here is so serious. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] – I believe that the opportunities have not been sufficiently exploited. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! It is true that you have tried in Kosovo, but you should also say that you are only Zaungast in this process. You can drive and pay for the EU to the Donors' Conference in Washington. Negotiating and deciding politically is what the Americans do – including in the Balkans, also in Kosovo. This is the reality because Europe is not heard on these issues. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You must note that, although you are allowed to travel to Palestine, you are allowed to donate 5.5 billion schilling and still have 50 million schilling from Austria, but the Americans decide not Mr. Vice-Chancellor Schüssel on behalf of the EU. We are the payers, and the Americans determine politics. This must be clear to us, and this is basically not worth the effort that European foreign policy is making. [[Abg. Wabl: That's why you want to join NATO!]] They are, as it were, the financial sunk that lays down the money, and the others determine politics! I also believe that you have not taken advantage of the opportunity – and I am particularly sorry for this – to address the question of net contributions. Federal Chancellor! It was significant that: At the end of the conference – after the conference has ended! – have suddenly become courageous and have spoken in a Vienna newspaper and said that you are now also for freezing the contributions – but only after Mr Schröder has told you: "If not! We Germans don't want to pay for everything anymore, we want a reduction in net contributions!" And that, after you have often told us here in Parliament that what has happened in England regarding the discount that Margaret Thatcher has brought out for her country, is not the first to vote, and the second is that it will not be maintained. – Now your friend Tony Blair has told you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e10467	Please put to the conclusion, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e10482	He said: We want the discount to continue. – You have to take note of this. Wouldn't it have been good to speak and say, as EU Council President, who comes from Austria, for one's own country as well: We too want lower net contributions because we also have needs of financing in this country and because we have become the third largest contributors today!Unknown term type: "%s".? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In my opinion, these are the real flaws. This is why we should not particularly welcome the outcome, but note that we have missed an opportunity that could have done a lot for Austria too.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e10527	The next speaker is Mrs Dr Schmidt. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. 10 minutes speaking time according to Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e10556	Federal Chancellor! Minister! Mr President. High house! I would just like to make a few comments on the technical outcome of this discussion. I also regret that the debate on the report by the Federal Chancellor and the Vice-Chancellor on the EU summit must take place in the context of a urgent request. I regret this above all because the two reports took place, so to speak, in a sandwich between two Hallelu years, namely that of the clubman Kostelka and that of the foreign spokesman of the SPÖ Arbitrators. But you need to know why it happens in this way. There is a group in this House who was not prepared to give up a parliamentary instrument. Everything else would have happened... – The liberal, and you know that it can only be this when it comes to such things. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: What group was that, Mrs Schmidt?]] That's a reality. [[Abg. May. Stadler: I want your complexes!]] That is why we need to discuss here in this form. I regret that – this is re-readable – because for one thing one must understand: that these two gentlemen, German Chancellors climate and vice-channers, today only have time to hold a debate with Parliament. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany May. Stadler]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: I am glad that it is an urgent one! Such a embarrassment in the form of a government declaration would be too big!]] In this situation, one simply has to understand. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] But if a group only consists of destruction, then four political groups must now discuss in this form, and I do so. Secondly, I regret that this debate is being held with such a black and white painting. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: You don't have to offer yourself!]] I have already mentioned this jubilation of the EU Presidency and also of the EU summit by most, Mr Mock, I say: most – Members and representatives of the government on the one hand. The first speaker of the opposition has now acted as if the worst thing had happened at this time. There's really more differentiation. [[Abg. Scheibner: Have you not listened again? Always these reflexes!]] I want to try such a differentiation – I don't know if it succeeds, but I want to try it – to bring it into the overall assessment. Nevertheless, for us liberals is at the forefront of the fact that this EU Presidency of Austria has not really moved much. In this way we agree with the opinion of most foreign commentators. That's a reality! However, I do not blame Austria for this alone, and I think it is necessary to hold it. I believe that the election campaign in Germany is a significant part of the blame for the fact that nothing has gone further. [[Abg. May. Stadler: (on empty banks in the SPÖ ranks) You can see what the declaration of government of your own group is worth!]] However, I believe that the fact that in more and more countries there are top politicians who prefer to go the easier way, namely those who talk to the population after the mouth, rather than the more difficult to do persuasion. This leads to the fact that sales strategy, especially good sales strategy, is regarded as the essential, and this, I must say, Mr Bundeskanzler, is becoming increasingly commonplace in countries which are under social democratic rule! [[Abg. May. Stadler: (newly pointing to empty benches in the SPÖ ranks) They even wanted a government declaration for it!]] It is like a disease that sales strategy is all and that one no longer wants to deal with the efforts of political work, namely design and conviction. And I have the impression that – and this is one of the many points that are contrary to your assessment, Mr Bundeskanzler – one is increasingly aware of the fact that the common market has already reached a good part – at all now with the euro – and believes that one could rest on it for at least a time until one has one's own party political sheep in the dry. In this way, the objective of this project has actually been lost sight of Europe. And I am not of your opinion that we have given a rejection to renationalisation, but the opposite is the case. If you look at how the essential points are dealt with, then you must admit that the trend is more towards renationalisation and populism and is not in the direction of the hard work of persuasion to recall and develop Europe. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] It is not enough to dispute the headings. This is seen in the way in which enlargement is dealt with, for example, although enlargement of Europe is an essential element in achieving the goal of completing or at all producing Europe's peace project. If Mr Vice-Chancellor points out again and again that the negotiations took place under the Austrian Presidency, I must say: That's right, but we know that the Acquis screening was completed. That means: If the negotiations had not started, this would have been a clear negative signal. But it is not such a positive signal that once it was started, nor because it would have been possible to bring in more on this question. I would have thought it very necessary, for example, to give a clear signal to Slovakia. Nothing of this has taken place from Austria, and I will make a few comments later on the possible signals relating to enlargement. Nothing has just been started with regard to institutional reform. I remember very well that in the main committee, not only the Vice-President, but above all the Chancellor, said that there was no intention of talking about institutional reform at all. You have removed the sails because it is said that there was no great willingness in other countries to do so instead of trying to produce such a willingness to pretend something to act as a stepmaker, as it could actually be the task of a presidency. With regard to financing: Mr Haider considered it so "great" that at the end of the presidency, German Chancellor Climate Change spoke of the fact that he too felt it was necessary to freeze the contributions. I don't think it's "great", but it's exactly that path of populism that's also going to be climate. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] And he's not at the beginning, but he's been dragging into this populist path for a long time, which doesn't make any constructive contribution to a new financing concept of the European Union at all, but he's just asking what people like to hear: [[Abg. Böhacker: Do you want to increase the contributions?]] We want to pay less! But it is not stated how further financing is actually to be done. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] With regard to the common foreign and security policy: It was the French and the British who have now brought the concept of the "European army" into the discussion. When a week earlier the Liberals spoke of it, we were overcast with mockery and hohn, how we could even talk about it. [[Abg. Young: You've been talking about resolution!]] [[Federal Chancellor Mag. Climate: No one said that!]] But in order to develop a position and to discuss how such a army could be developed, with which building blocks, whether that would be possible under the dissolution of the national armies, or as in other episodes, there was no single contribution from Austrian side! [[Abg. Scheibner: You are even worse than the Socialists on this question!]] It is no wonder, therefore, that the objective of having been set, namely that under the Austrian Presidency a "Mr." or "Mrs. CFSP" would be elected, could not be achieved. Either way, if there's no incitement from Austria?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] As far as employment policy is concerned, too, Mr Bundeskanzler, there are only headlines and nothing else for me. Belief in bringing something forward in it, you will only be able to reach it if you have the majority in your own country, in which you have the majority with your coalition partner – a two-thirds majority in addition! - to take it a little further. How do you want to move something in Europe if you do not even move something in your own country? How do you intend to talk about debureaucratisation if you do not find at all that in this small country there are nine different construction regulations, nine different social assistance laws, nine different animal welfare laws, and what else gives no authority to what causes bureaucracy and costs and represents an effort and a barrier to everything that entrepreneurship means, not only in the economy, but also in the minds? How do you want to be credible in the deregulation if you have not succeeded in radically reforming this "Government" which is our trade order? [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: Not at all!]] They can't do anything in Europe, because they'll be right to say: Clean up once in front of your own door, and then come to us! But that is just one point on the question of employment policy! We all know that bureaucracy is a major obstacle, but, of course, tax policy also plays a role. What we have heard so far from the forthcoming tax reform is not to give you credibility for a reasonable tax harmonisation in Europe. For, of course, a tax reduction would be necessary, of course, it would be necessary to increase the purchasing power of the population. We shall now proceed to enlargement. To talk only about wage levels in the former Eastern states is a shortened view, much more important it is to see the wage-price level. That is why it is about strengthening purchasing power! But even if we only start from the wage level, so - I see that time is running out of it - we know that some candidate countries, such as the Czech Republic or, above all, Slovenia, are very close to or even above the percentage of some EU countries, such as Portugal or Greece; even Spain is quite close. What I mean is this: You could have left a completely different manuscript if you had tried to get the other members to deal, for example, with a timetable for enlargement, to deal with what could be done in institutional reform or how drasticly one can really limit the principle of unanimity – and I believe it is necessary to limit this. [[Accompaniment at the Liberal Forum]] I do not understand to this day that the concrete design of the Structural Funds has not been possible, because there has been a consensus for a year now that the number of target areas in which there should be priorities should be reduced to three. It should have been concrete right now. But on this question you have not left your handwriting, and I regret it. I regret this as a convinced European, because we want to further develop this Europe. However, we want to further develop it on a higher fundamental rights standard than we currently have it.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e10793	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e10808	Mr President, I was just at the conclusion. The standard of fundamental rights must not be withdrawn as Mr Schlögl wants, but it should be extended. We need greater competitiveness, and above all we need social cohesion. Only then can we really achieve the goal of the peace project!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e10842	The next speaker was Mrs Petrovic. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e10885	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Foreign Minister! High house! At the beginning of the Austrian Presidency about half a year ago, objectives and declarations of intent were discussed, and now there is a debate on how far success has been achieved and whether these successes go beyond mere headlines and declarations of intent. I think the Tenor of Criticism is probably making the point: It has been achieved, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that employment and also an extended, ecological safety concept are discussed, and that only concrete measures are still pending. I agree that it is not easy for a small country in the situation of Austria to make rapid visible, tangible, measurable successes, but I believe that all these efforts to deal with the central - including security - task of creating full employment can only be successful if this concern is not counter-carriaged by other fields of policy. In this text of the urgent question of the sparsely represented Group of Socialists, it is written that, and this will be true, during the Austrian Presidency, four topics were defined which should have priority in the future, namely: [[Abg. Aumayr: 13 representatives of SPÖ are here!]] "Promoting employment, economic growth and stability, improving security and quality of life, reforming Union policies and institutions, promoting stability and prosperity in Europe and worldwide." Federal Chancellor! I would go – even as an opposition politician – so far as to say: If we were at least to live on the domestic and international parquets, that would be a success. Only: It's not happening! I believe that you, Federal Chancellor and Foreign Minister, share my opinion that the desire for full employment, for stability and security will remain a pious, unfulfilled wish for worldwide stability, as long as Austria itself, as long as members of the Austrian Federal Government, make every effort to destabilise the crisis spots of this earth and to create uncertainty. That's a tough accusation, I know, but I can justify it. Mr Bundeskanzler and Mr Bundesminister! As you know, we have been holding a debate on Austrian arms exports for several days. A new business has now been added to the already known case of the 40 000 storm rifles, namely a tank business to which I will address at the end of my remarks. We can prove today that the Federal Minister of State for Defence has proved to us the untruth in the course of this business several times. [[Abg. Young: Not the first time!]] The Federal Minister for the Defence of the State – and I ask you, Mr Foreign Minister, how you judge this as his party observer – will tell us on 9 May. In December, the purchase contract concluded with the Federal Ministry of Defence contained a clause that the company had to make the weapons ineffective. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Mr. President! On the matter!]] In my opinion, Mr Khol, it is very likely that, when it comes to stability and prosperity in the world, I will address the question of the behaviour of the Austrian Federal Government only on this point. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: This has nothing to do with the EU Presidency!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Khol! In the meantime, this purchase contract is accessible to me, and it says literally – I quote from GZ 61/133/01 – that: Demilitarisation by the Austrian federal army is not foreseen. – The Federal Minister has told us the untruth! ==References====External links== In December, when it was said that the equipment had to be demilitarized. The Federal Minister of State Defense has thus violated and broken the neutrality of Austria, security in Europe and thus the declaration of intent of the Austrian priorities in the Presidency. He also said that, particularly in business with the United States – see the Minister of the Interior – the weapons were to be demilitarized, so to speak, to make them unusable. Now I have the contract in writing. This shows that exactly those parts of the weapons that have actually been made unusable for this business with the USA through sawing of the course have been supplied as spare parts, namely unsawful runs. That means, for a sawn weapon immediately came the appropriate spare part. – So he said the untruth again! Thirdly, this international stability, the Austrian neutrality and the aims of the Austrian Presidency were counter-checked by the violation of ÖNORM 2050. The Federal Minister has informed us that this ÖNORM is of course to be observed. I now have a public call for proposals from the Ministry of Defence. It states that in the case of foreign bidders, an export permit of the Federal Ministry of the Interior should be submitted in the context of arms operations. The supplement for the business was – as I have been told in writing – 5th. August was granted, only the corresponding approval – limited to one year and for certain countries – was only granted on 9 August. September, then, granted. No speech was, of course, about permits for Romania or Botswana. Clearly, this is – and this concerns you, Mr. Bundeskanzler – also § 5 para. 2 War materials law has been violated, because it can only be a really unthinkable attempt at a bending of the law – I say it's an abuse of power – if it is delivered to a foreign dealer in the country, if even a business is made with a Dutch letterbox company and then said: We wash our hands in innocence, we don't know what happened then. Mr. Klubobmann Khol! I welcome the document "Objectives and Focusses of the Austrian Presidency" as follows: Destabilising accumulations and transfers of small and light weapons combined with an increasing number of internal conflicts have given the international community new responsibilities. - Quote. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Yes!]] Austria supplies weapons to these conflict areas. A "wonderful" contribution to the Austrian Presidency! Don't you find that, too, Mr. Federal Chancellor? Don't you think so, Mr. Foreign Minister? The fact that Austria has thereby violated the Code of Conduct of the European Union, which warns against such indirect arms transfers via dealers and forbids them, does not seem to disturb the members of the government responsible for Austrian foreign policy. I ask you: What about the Code of Conduct of the European Union? Is that not true of the President-in-Office of the Council? What about the Council of Europe resolution 642? There is a wealth of legal sources that have been broken by operations with crisis spots. I come to my final executions. There is now a new proposal, again from the Minister of Defence, in which around 41 pieces of tanks – that is, already the slightly larger weapons – are going on for Argentina, Bolivia, Morocco and Botswana. And it reads very nice when the "Blue Helmet News" reports on a celebration of the Austrian blue helmets, MINURSO, in the West Sahara, Morocco, in which an Austrian gets the "Medal for Peace" attached to the chest by a representative of the UN Secretary-General – a representative of that country that not only sends blue helmets in this particular Morocco, but now also sends tanks! Ladies and gentlemen! Estimated members of the Austrian Federal Government! They will have to decide, because jobs are not equal to jobs. We want full employment, we want support for women and cultural workers. What happens in these criminal transactions,...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e10976	Please ask for the final sentence; the speaking time is over!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e10992	...in all cases, it is necessary to create jobs in the arms industry, coffin manufacturers, graves and vultures of all kinds. And this is a shame for Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e11022	The next speaker was Mrs Hlavac. As a speaking time, 6 minutes are proposed voluntarily. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e11043	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to devote myself to the assessment of the Austrian Presidency in my contribution to the debate. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Hallelujah!]] In some parts of the debate, or in some comments, I felt that the task of the EU Presidency is not properly seen, that expectations are aroused, which cannot be fulfilled in this way. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] As far as the outcome of our EU Presidency is concerned, I believe some very important successes have been achieved. Above all, it is very important – and the German Chancellor has also mentioned this – that a trend change has been made. There is now a willingness to continue together in employment policy first – that is an extremely important and central issue – and secondly to coordinate fiscal, structural and economic policies. These two measures will result in unemployment falling in the European Union, and that is really the central point, which is what the citizens in Europe expect of us. In the area of transport policy, too, where it was no longer expected to come up with a solution, it was possible to achieve very concrete success. Although they are very important, they have not been mentioned with a word or denied. The agreement on the EU-Switzerland Land Transport Agreement is a great success of the Austrian EU Presidency. This agreement is important not only for the European Union as a whole, but especially for us in Austria, because it will bring about a clear relief of the Alpine transit, because the transit via the Brenner line can be relocated very much. The estimates are based on at least 200 000 trucks per year. This is really a great success! An additional agreement will be reached on the Road Costs Directive, which will take an important step towards an environmentally friendly transport policy. Above all, the staggering of the truck-damage classes, the differentiation between day and night-to-day tolls and the cost of road freight transport are important according to the 'polluter pays' principle and a clear signal in the right direction, namely towards shifting traffic from road to rail. Once again to the most important issue of employment. We all remember that for a long time the issue has not been in the EU, that many governments, especially those with a strong voice in the European Union, have kept their minds on the fact that employment policy is becoming a central European issue. It was the Austrian Chancellor with the support of the Sweden, who has taken a very substantial step towards making employment policy a central issue. Today this is an undisputed objective, and we can say that we have already progressed on some essential points. For the first time, a joint employment report has been drawn up, and something that is very important to me as a woman has been added to the employment guidelines by a very important point, namely that equality between women and men is a central concern of the European Union. I would like to thank the Federal Government for this, but above all the Federal Chancellor and the Minister for Women. In this area, important steps have been taken in the right direction, decisions of great importance to women have been taken. I would like to say at all events that the Austrian Presidency has been very successful for women, not only in terms of employment, but also in terms of other initiatives. I would just like to mention the fight against trafficking in women. It has already been mentioned several times by the government bank how important it is to combat organised crime. There have also been initiatives on the subject of women and new information and communication technologies, and there have also been initiatives on the role of women in the public service – a wide range of initiatives that are very important for women in our country and in Europe. Briefly summarized: There are successes in the main areas of the Austrian Presidency as regards employment policy, in terms of women's concerns, in the areas of environment and transport, in other words, a whole series of positive developments and positive decisions, and I therefore believe that this EU Presidency has really been a success.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e11085	The next speaker is Mr Schwarzböck. The clock is set to 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e11106	Mr President, Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In a few minutes, the Austrian Presidency of the Council of the European Union in the second half of 1998 is not analytically and balance-sheetable in detail, but as an interested observer, there is not much to be said: More has come out than euro skeptics love, and it has come out less than glowing Europeans would have wanted. But one thing has certainly come out: a reasonable policy for German-presidentship agreement in March next year. To this end, I would like to say: If this is not fully possible in view of the major Agenda 2000 project, it will probably not be a disaster, but it will be possible to be completed later. But one thing is clear, ladies and gentlemen: Anyone who has listened to Klubobmann Dr. Haider knows that the result, regardless of how it will turn out in March or later, will be strongly criticized. Klubobmann Dr. Haider pretends to be sorry for the German Presidency. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic distributes copies of a paper.]] I have read that the new German Chancellor Schröder meant...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e11131	Mr Schwarzböck, please take a moment. . We have reached an agreement on the distribution of pressure types. I think we should all stick to it. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic stops the distribution.]] Please, Mr Schwarzböck.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e11152	I have read in the last few days that the new German Chancellor Schröder meant that it had remained a lot of work for the German Presidency. It must not be forgotten that the German Chancellor was still Prime Minister of Lower Saxony seven or eight weeks ago. I believe that in every function, especially after a German Chancellor Kohl, there is a certain process of experience in order to be able to imagine at all what is connected with the EU Presidency, especially with the responsibility of having to be a European engine in its inheritance. But I'm sure: Should Mr. Dr. Haider ever come into a similar government responsibility at national or national level, he would probably need more time to deal with these things than Chancellor Schröder. The contradiction has been felt throughout the argumentation. It is like a red thread through the criticism of the opposition, especially by those of the liberals, since the preparations for our accession to the EU. Thus, it has been complained or even strongly criticized that Austria would sink into insignificance in the European Union. Now one complains of Austria's lack of domination in the EU Council Presidency. Of course, a democratic formation of fifteen Member States cannot work in such a way that the respective President can exercise domination - neither in the large Council nor in the small areas in which our officials have held the Presidency in great detail up to the smallest expert groups for half a year. I think that we can say right and right: The result of the Austrian EU Presidency is probably in a good old Austrian way of life: somewhere in the middle. And this is an excellent and excellent result for what a young EU member country of the size of Austria could bring to the EU. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The Agenda 2000 is now a major reform of the basic concept. If, together, we are now trying to bring about a change in the existing distribution key of the shared tax resources to finance EU policy – basically, after the existing distribution mechanism, huge successes have been achieved, and countries that have benefited greatly from the Cohesion Fund have become members of the first stage of the European Economic and Monetary Union – then it is not expected that Prime Minister Tony Blair will be happy to vote if the English discount is discussed. There is, of course, a need for political mechanisms and voting mechanisms in the European process for internal policy reasons in such a difficult matter. However, I would also like to point out that the starting point with which Agenda 2000 has been drawn up in the Commission has changed considerably. The Russia crisis and the Asia crisis have also changed the world in the economic field with regard to the assessment of dynamic further development opportunities. If our vice chancellor was able to report that food aid for Russia was finally finalized on Monday in the EU Council, this is not only an important step towards security on this continent in the coming weeks and months, given the winter months that will be brought to Russia's drama, but it is also the opportunity for us to normalize the European Union's collapsed third country food exports and, hopefully, to achieve normalization for many European farmers who are dependent on East exports. I would also like to point out that the euro has been put on the rails in good time and in spite of all the euro's unmistakable calls. And all those who have feared that our currency, to which we have a special relationship, the schilling, would be replaced by a currency which does not correspond to what the schilling meant by decades of stability throughout the world, have been taught a better one. Under the Austrian Presidency, monetary policy could also be continued in such a way that those countries inside the first block of economic and monetary union were not affected by those negative trends in monetary speculation or depreciation, such as those countries which are still waiting and who have to compensate for it today. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I would also like to point out that, of course, we see employment comprehensive. Employment policy can not only be a one-sided commitment to new jobs – it is, I believe, undisputed that this must be a common objective of a country with a high social tradition and culture, as Austria is one – but also a matter of controlling the change in those areas of employment in which an intensive structural change is taking place, so that there is no longer any break away than we can create with new innovations and with a targeted employment policy at all. Therefore, Agenda 2000 must find a reasonable result, a viable result – including the whole complex of the common agricultural policy and the food industry, and along with a deepening of European integration – otherwise we are at risk of taking more risks than we are carrying on with the so large educational, employment and innovation initiatives in the fields of industry, industry or services. It is therefore particularly welcome that enlargement negotiations have begun. Mrs Schmidt, the screening is not yet complete, we have not even reached half. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Of course it is finished!]] The optimists believe that it can be completed in mid-1999. But we have an experience: We are approaching in understanding what European legal order, what Acquis Community is – not only in terms of text but also in terms of enforceability – those countries that have the requirement to implement the acquis communautaire in order to become members of the European Union. If you talk to officials of the European Union, but also to Austrian officials who have the task of screening the candidates, you can hear how difficult, but also how fruitful, is the process which is the start of accession negotiations and the continuation of screening, which is the prerequisite for a little progress in EU enlargement. One thing is clear: To whom enlargement policy has so far gone too quickly, it should take note: The sooner the negotiations begin, the more time we have to deal with the matter together and in partnership. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the SPÖ.]] We have taken a great step with the Austrian Presidency to broaden the foundation for the great Agenda 2000 project and for EU enlargement, and a good broad foundation has still been a very good basis for an excellent future design.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e11209	The next speaker is Mr Schweitzer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e11230	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! I don't suppose you went through the Löwelstraße today, otherwise you would have noticed that the Personality Show you don't want has already reached a peak there: Climate/Blair, climate/jospin, climate/Schröder laugh there from 24 floor posters. So the Personality Show reaches a new highlight, I just want to tell you. Convince yourself on the Löwelstraße! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Smolle: Fesh they are! It is not the government's problem that it does not have a bad people!]] Federal Chancellor! Self-esteem, you should have said after the Brussels Summit, and you have meant the EU Presidency of the British to do something about it, Wolfgang Böhm writes in the press. Because much better you didn't get through at the Vienna Summit either. Although there was no embarrassing agreement, there was no agreement at all. – Quote from the newspaper "Die Presse". [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Chancellor! I now remind you of the EU's main committee in front of Pörtschach – and I think Mr Gredler will do the same too – at that time you have fully informed us what you will do: You will deepen, and you will expand. They will set new impetus for tax policy, for employment policy. They will ensure that there is an economic voice in Europe, a common strong voice. They will increase internal security. They will ensure that there is a common foreign policy, that there is a "Mr." or a "Mrs. CAP" – pardon! – "CFSP" gives. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: Not GAP, but CFSP!]] You will prepare these solutions, which you want to achieve, at the summit of Pörtschach, and you will finally implement all that you have done in Vienna. I have now arrived in my statements, Mr Federal Chancellor, where I only want to bring extracts from individual comments to national and foreign newspapers that highlight the outcome of the EU summit in Vienna. [[Abg. Leikam: We can read the paper ourselves, Schweitzer!]] The outcome of the Vienna EU summit is in a number of insignificant papers, and these insignificant papers are now to be presented as great progress, titled "Vienna Strategy for Europe" high-end. What's behind that? – The conclusions from the Vienna Summit are in fact in need: calming phrases and words, which are completely unclear to all those who are interested in what is behind them. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oberhaidinger.]] The Vienna Strategy is just a list of eighteen work contracts. Specifics will only be made at the Cologne and Helsinki Summits. The "Süddeutsche Zeitung", Mr. Colleague, says: The red-green Bonn coalition must now see how it can be achieved with the inheritance of the Austrian Presidency, which has announced much but has hardly completed anything. For example, with the much-enjoyed employment pact. What about it? – In truth, only the inscription is changed. The adoption of common guidelines on employment has long since taken place at the Luxembourg Summit in December 1997. If you now rename these guidelines to the name "Pact", is this a success? Only the designation of "Guidelines" on "Pact" is a great success for the unemployed? There is really no difference! I'd like to tell you that. What exactly does the Employment Pact mean? – It has not yet been said what the concrete content of this employment pact is. What measures are being taken, what measures are there to take to create employment? But also with regard to the other areas, so important and fully announced by you, in which you want to go a little further, such as the financing of the Community, the financing of EU enlargement, the reform of the common agricultural policy, there is the question of how this should work if EU enlargement is to be achieved. The institutional reform, the common foreign policy, the common increase in internal security have been postponed to the next few years. As expected, there are no results at all. One quote: The Germans, who will be taking over the Presidency in January, will now have to do the dirty work, according to EU diplomats, because the Austrians have done nothing further.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e11313	The next Mrs. Dr. Martina Gredler is speaking. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e11334	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to put the presentation here today into reality, in so far as I allow myself to quote the title of a book of Peyrefitte which actually concerns China: [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Alain Peyrefitte!]] "Quand la Chine s'éveillera le monde tremblera." I would like to recoup this in Austria, because that is the impression I had after Mr. Federal Chancellor's speech: When Austria wakes, the earth trembles! After Mr. Federal Chancellor's speech, I really asked myself the question: What would the EU have done in the last six months without Austria? – The EU would be completely collapsing if Austria had not existed! A sensational chaos would have arisen, not the ministers and representatives of Austria would have been daily! I really want to name the members of the government, because I very much recognise the achievements of officials in these six months. They have partly reached the limits of their physical capacity. I would like to thank them very much for the commitment they have made and who was certainly not always simple or even funny. I would now like to refer to Mr Kostelka's comments. He referred to three main points: Employment, internal security and the role of Europe in the world. To the point "inner security" the Matzka paper falls into my mind. – This was truly embarrassing as a performance and as an input provided by Austria as part of its EU Presidency. It had to be withdrawn for revision because it had been agreed that it was not a suitable basis. Painful, embarrassing! Discomfortable! As far as the issue of the role of Europe in the world is concerned, I would like Austria to be an honest broker in terms of EU enlargement, as it has been called, and I would have dared to mention concrete steps and dates, as Joschka Fischer currently believes, who is actually an inexperienced foreign politician, but obviously he is a braver. Or should you just say, "ignorant"? I do not think that he is ignorant, but I believe that the calculation is because Germany wants to profile itself with the neighbouring countries. But this has failed Austria. I would like to mention a few points in this regard. It should not be forgotten that, for example, the ratio of income in the Czech Republic to income in 1989 1 : 10 was, now it's 1 : 2. The Czech Republic has approached in this area with great steps. I believe that the activation of the dead borders if we rapidly and effectively expanded the EU would be an important step. In this context, I would like to point out something that has never been mentioned here: We export to those Eastern European countries that want to join the EU far more than we import from them. In principle, this means that the EU enlargement countries are actually securing jobs with us, and we should take this into account. We must not forget that these countries also have the opportunity to focus on other markets, and we would have the consequences of doing so. I therefore ask you to be more courageous on the part of Austria and to say: We want to have our eastern neighbours in the EU within the next four years, and we will no longer tolerate any delay. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] What the Spaniards can do, we can all do when it comes to EU enlargement. On the topic of "European Army", my previous speaker from the Liberal Forum has already carried out a lot. The following is really interesting: The Liberals are accused of being too futuristic to look too far forward. It means that this European army must first find a consensus in Austria at all! – First of all: Have the courage to talk about it! Secondly, Do you have the courage to say that not the model of Tony Blair, after which there are individual "bricks" in each country, is a sensible and effective strategy in relation to the European army – Mr. Gusenbauer, I hope that you will go into it – but that, if you act together, you should also create a common structure. That would be a sensible method! Nothing other than this, the Liberal Forum has proposed and wants it. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I just want to talk about the Euro-discussion – because I have little time. Federal Chancellor! You said the euro was a weapon. [[Interference of Federal Chancellor Mag. Climate.]] In my opinion, the euro is an instrument and not a weapon. [[Federal Chancellor Mag. Climate: Did I say he was a weapon?- Oh, my God!]] We do not want the economy as a substitute for military conflicts, namely at the economic level. We want to achieve stability in Europe and the world with the euro and fair competition. The euro is therefore an instrument and not a weapon, Mr. Federal Chancellor! [[Abg. Smolle's on the sidewalk.]] - Excuse me for not allowing applause, but I really have to say one more word to "Mr. CFSP" or "Mrs. CFSP". A "Mrs. CFSP" is obviously not so much wanted, because the only candidate has retreated. But you, Federal Chancellor, have the opportunity to demonstrate your special commitment to the equality of women: Why don't you look for a Commission President? This would be a new approach to equality between men and women at European level. [[Congratulations and Bravorufe at the Liberal Forum]] We would support you with this!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e11419	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Doris Kammerlander. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e11441	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Foreign Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. When I browse the newspapers – both Austrian and foreign – I and, as I think, many other readers also get a very differentiated picture. If you look through the headlines and comments, you get the picture that this was a summit where many things were left unsolved, where many things were discussed, but problems were postponed, which, although word-rich statements were made – some also call "words" – but which were a "flat summit" in which harmony existed all around, but there was little progress. – I could continue this list. We have just today – interestingly and gratefully – received the "foreign press show" that you can browse, and you will find that this is a general assessment. It may already be true – I would like to differentiate – that not all of that can be hung around the Austrian Presidency as a debt or as a non-fulfilled task, but one must already be said and recalled: They presented a very comprehensive programme at the beginning of the Austrian Presidency of the Council of the EU. We have already said in the debate that it is not good to mix what is on the agenda and what is on the agenda with what your priorities are, with what you say that you want to achieve at least during your EU Presidency, perhaps with things that – more or less in the last minute – have passed from the British Presidency of the Council of the EU to Austria. That was not good – just before this dilemma you are now standing – because you are now measured by what you have specified in your paper, on everything, on everyone, whether it was your ambitious project or the agenda. In this respect, the impression remains that in your EU Presidency you have not achieved much of what you wanted to achieve. It would be interesting to discuss this – but it is not the time for it today – what is and is located in your responsibility as the EU Presidency leading country and what may also be signs of European fatigue. Many commentators have described it this way: The common sense is lost, the common sense is missed. It would therefore be interesting to discuss it because the problems you have not solved will be solved next year. This is likely to be measured by the question of where the common sense and the will to be shared remain. Let me once again take three areas which have been your Presidency's priorities and which I think are particularly good at seeing what you have not achieved, what you have not brought in and not even mentioning here. It would be no shame to mention that! [[Federal Chancellor Mag. Climate talks to the government bank. May. Posch.]] – By the way, I would place great emphasis on receiving undivided attention from the government bank, just like all other speakers. Thank you. I would like to take three areas in which I think it would not have been a shame if you had agreed there or there that you had presented this, such as a non-paper just before the summit. In my opinion, we have presented it with very remarkable, good proposals, namely that the European Central Bank should be included. But you obviously did not get through with this, because this non-paper is no longer a speech, this proposal was not a talk at the summit. But it was also not a question of other things, such as your popular concept, Mr Bundeskanzler, the policy mix in employment policy, at the summit. No talk about it, no speech from the nonpaper! The question of progress from the Luxembourg Summit to the Vienna Summit remains the right one. For a year we had been promised that the national employment plans would be evaluated and that there should be quantifiable objectives and criteria, I would like to stress the word. Federal Chancellor! Checkable criteria are exactly what we have had for a year, they are not worth the paper on which they stand. It is simply not verifiable if you write beautiful words into a National Employment Plan without quantifying the measures, without quantifying the objectives and criteria, without specifying the costs and without specifying the time of implementation. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] To the "beautiful" words of this summit: What is an employment pact? – I too wonder what that is. Is this liberalisation and flexibility? Is growth policy? Is the policy mix? Is this the inclusion of various instruments, which were discussed and not decided at the Luxembourg Summit? What's that? Does such an employment pact include tax harmonisation? - I think so. That's where we reached the next area. Tax harmonisation was a declared objective of your EU Presidency. In fact, even in autumn, Minister of Finance, Edlinger, stressed that you would like to bring this to the fore and to the fore. However, the word "harmonization" is no longer in the "Vienna strategies" at all, but it is about a "fair tax competition". The same question: What's that? What's "fair"? What's a fair tax competition? We have experienced in recent years what can lead to so-called fair competition. This is mass unemployment, a rise in unemployment. What is therefore a fair tax competition? – This is one of the magic formulas found there without explaining exactly what that should be. We are miles away from a tax harmonisation, which would be an essential step in the context of employment policy. Not reached! Not fulfilled! Blitzed off! – You can call it that. I must quote as I have often quoted in this context, namely Jean Claude Juncker, who said: I didn't get everything! I have presented a lot at the Luxembourg employment summit, but we have not achieved everything! You could say that too! This would be no damage, no damage to Austria, no harm to the ambitions and projects that I hope will continue to exist and maintain. Let me come to a third point: to the EU enlargement, for which we have always taken over something like the sponsorship. EU enlargement has been postponed to the long-term, it is not present. On the contrary. We have joined in an unfortunate debate which the Germans have once again initiated, namely the net-payer debate, although we know that it is entirely contrary to the wishes of enlargement and the will for enlargement. We have found a magic formula, namely the freezing of expenditure approaches, although we know that this reflects helplessness, that this is an inappropriate and highly conservative proposal which is not appropriate to solve the problems ahead of us. Where is your proposal, Mr Foreign Minister, which you once presented as a "Marshall Plan" for the EU enlargement countries? [[Interference of Vice-Chancellor Dr. Schüssel.]] This was about the difference in the own resources limit, 180 billion schilling. This proposal must be tabled and it must be said: EU enlargement costs something! This is an investment for the future, and as such we should see it too! [[New interim remark by Vice Chancellor Dr. Schüssel.]] – Only because Haider criticizes this, can we not do it again, Mr Foreign Minister? That's how we are? So far is your policy? [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Dr Gredler.]] [[Vice Chancellor Dr. Schüssel: No, because it is out of dispute...!]] But what about, Mr. Bundeskanzler – to come to a final form of magic – your momentum of EU enlargement, their maintenance? - I don't understand that. Finally, One priority was human rights. You've listed a lot. However, one of the human rights and my understanding of human rights is to prevent wars and conflicts wherever possible. You mentioned it in your paper and also in the EU Memorandum for the United Nations, and you, Mr Foreign Minister, mentioned it in your speech to the United Nations: that trade in used small weapons becomes one of the most dangerous potentials when it comes to conflicts and wars, especially civil wars. This trade is to be stopped, it is to be taken measures with which it is prohibited. In the light of the events, as we see them now, of which we are now reading what we have revealed to Greens, I ask: How do you stand and what do you say? In order to clean up our own national defence budget, are we going to buy it, thereby promoting and supporting wars elsewhere? This is contrary to what you stress over and over again, both in your paper on the Austrian Presidency of the Council of the EU and in your speeches. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would very much like you, Federal Chancellor, and you, Foreign Minister – I am already at my conclusion! – to comment on this fact, also from the perspective of the EU Presidency, from the point of view of focusing on human rights. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e11528	Mr Gusenbauer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for his excellent report. The clock is set to 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e11550	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Everyone wants to see what is most likely to fit into his political categories and his critical schedule. It is of course true that, as the President-in-Office of the Council, the first thing to do is to see the success. However, if one maintains the strategy that the Austrian Presidency should not leave anything, as the individual parts of the opposition do, then one cannot admit success either. In view of this debate, it should be clear to us at what time we have this debate. I believe that, regardless of whether Austria held the EU Council Presidency or not, it has been crucial for the future of European integration for the last half of the year. This half-year was crucial because Europe was at a crossroads: It was about deciding whether the euro is the last project of European integration or whether there is also an integration perspective. If you read and see the letter written by Kohl and Chirac in spring, and what priorities are included in it, you have to note: The fear of the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany that the train should have driven partly towards renationalisation is not unwarranted. In comparison, the letter from Schröder and Chirac, the basis of which is the discussions that took place in Pörtschach, makes it absolutely clear that the European Union will not be satisfied with the level of integration that has been achieved so far. On the contrary! It will take further integration steps beyond the euro. This is the decisive thing that happened this half-year: that the change in direction of further integration has taken place and the risk of the resurgence in nationalism has been banned. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Tichy Schreiter.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The second point: Of course, visions are needed. I believe that enlargement is one of the most important visions. However, it is also clear that it is necessary to create democratic majority voting in the Member States in order to achieve the visions, since the European project ultimately depends on democratic approval. In addition to democratic consent, we also need principles that are comprehensible that are just. If, for example, there is an argument about financing in the European Union, then it is legitimate, absolutely legitimate, because, as the German Foreign Minister rightly said, the cohesion countries which have made economic progress in recent years also have to note that, when it comes to enlargement, it will no longer be the poorest in the European Union, because new, poorer ones must be added to which one needs to help more than those who are already in the European Union. At the same time, it cannot be true that only a small part of the Member States of the European Union bear the entire financial burden, while that part of well-developed States, due to certain special political conditions, is trying to get out of financial responsibility. It is therefore very important that, on the basis of the context of vision, democratic consent and implementation of EU enlargement, this financial debate is also held, because this is ultimately important for the democratic cohesion of the European Union. In this context, I also think that any lamento about the fact that this question could not be resolved in Vienna is completely unnecessary. It is clear that in the case of such a major task, a solution is only possible if there is a package. The same applies to staff questions. A separate decision on "Mr." or "Mrs. CFSP" without any orientation on the question of the President of the Commission and other important positions – or president – is not attainable because this can only be done in the form of a package solution through the stage if one has room, mass and space for compromises at European level. [[Abg. Dr. Gredler: - President!]] This will be the case in the next half-year, and therefore the decisive decisions will be taken on the basis of a reasonable preparation under the German Presidency of the Council of the EU. I believe that Austria has done all that could be done in this context. [[Abg. Dr Gredler: I don't think so!]] Mr Haider said today that the only progress we have had was in the enlargement of the East, and we do not want Austrians to do so. [[Abg. Aumayr: 70 percent of Austrians are against it!]] – To this end, I say: Mr Haider has also said here that we Austrians do not want to join the European Union. I'm going to stop this. Austria has become a member with the agreement of two thirds of the population. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Haider has been here once again and has said that we do not want Austrians to have the euro. – The fact is: The majority of the Austrian population is proud of the fact that with 1. January 1999 will have the euro in Austria. Mr Haider has been here today and has said that we do not want Austrians to extend the East. – I would like to say: At the time of Easter enlargement, the Austrians will be proud that Austria will be at the heart of an enlarged European Union, which represents an alliance of peace and stability in Europe! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e11624	Mrs Tichy-Schreder has now come to speak. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: Without a doctor!]] Mrs Ingrid Tichy-Schreder. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e11654	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Today's debate is a debate on the work of Austria in the European Union. I would like to recall what Mr Vice-Chancellor said at the beginning of the Austrian Presidency: For Austria this half-year is a hard bone work. Ladies and gentlemen! This may have been forgotten by some opposition speakers, for it was already clear at the beginning of our EU Presidency that the countries of Great Britain, Austria and Germany have undertaken a joint work programme. One thing has been said in the European Union: If each country "throws into the arena" – under quotation marks – in half a year, no topic will be concluded. So the three countries mentioned have dealt with issues to be dealt with, and for these issues Austria has carried out the most difficult work, the preparatory work, in the last half year, by preparing papers for negotiation. I would like to thank our ministers, our Vice-Chancellor and the Federal Chancellor as well as the staff in the Ministries very much! This is the effortful work of the level, but also the work that will probably be thanked later. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I can understand Mrs Kammerlander when she asks whether the common sense has been lost in the European Union. The ghost of the renationalisation of the individual states has also come up. I believe that this is why it was necessary and that the European Union is constantly expanding to include new members who believe in the vision of Europe, because these Member States are giving a new impetus and bringing new ideas into the Community. That's what Austria did. Austria is just trying to pursue the necessary objectives so that the citizens of Europe feel more comfortable, feel more at home, and thus move Europe a little closer for them. Everyone has something to do with this, and Austria has just contributed a lot through the presentation of documents. But what is also very important – when reading the newspapers of tomorrow, one realizes that this is even very important – is that the common European foreign policy takes shape, because not all powers in our world are very stable. It is extremely important for Europe to gain stability with the euro. But now the next step is important, namely that there is also a common foreign policy of the European Union. And precisely our vice chancellor has initiated and advanced very valuable steps in this direction. Of course, it is not going from today to tomorrow to become a global player, but our vice-channer has found the recognition of the other states through his missions he has carried out, and that is important. It is important that this is recognised in the world so that the European Union can continue to work in the future within the framework of a common foreign and security policy. It is a matter for the Commission and the Member States to take steps to ensure that the Community's external and security policy is closed. Especially in the work in the Balkans, Austria has enormous merits. And that it has succeeded in installing an Austrian there as an EU representative, namely in Kosovo, hopefully in the future, contributes to the further development of peaceable measures, although the signs are rather stormy. The efforts are directed towards the stability of the funds. And I am very glad that the European Union does not introduce its own tax, because this would not be understood by citizens, but rather that expenditure is limited and that it tries to plan and use the funds properly. One point is therefore the budget, where the financial resources will be decided in the next six months. But in addition to the financial resources that concern individual countries in particular, it is also about humanity in this area of Europe and what Europe can do. I am very grateful to Mr Vice-Chancellor for having made child abuse a subject in the UN General Assembly. It is something that moves many people in this world, and it is very important not only to talk about it, but also to do so. Today we have adopted an ORF law on this, and I hope that all measures against child abuse will be taken and that we will make progress at the next conference, which will be held together with the USA and the European Union. Because the spread of child abuse over the Internet is one of the worst crimes. It is important that this is considered to be a punishment and that we proceed together. This is a European culture based on Austria. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Another important point, of course, is EU enlargement. I have already made it clear that the new candidates are very important for them to be a salt in the soup of the European Union in order to achieve more common ground. Austria has an intermediary function here: It has to pass on to our neighbours in the north, east and south by mediation what the European Union requires. It is to be thanked to the Vice-Chancellor that he has initiated that the negotiations on EU enlargement will finally begin, as this was of course not the case for the individual 15 EU Member States. It is important to: How will we be recognized as leaders so that we can bring the other countries to their agreement? This requires a lot of skill and trust from the other states, and it has won Austria. If we raise our voices, this will help us as a partner even in the future if we no longer have the presidency, if we also work for these neighbouring states in the north, east and south. I believe that the Heads of Government of these States have learned to appreciate how Austria is working for them. I am grateful to Mr Gusenbauer for saying that the opposite has always been the case of all that Mr Haider has said here. I am pleased that, in the future, we can convince Austrians of the benefit of enlargement of the EU to our neighbouring countries, that, as Mr Vice-Chancellor announced on Sunday, we will also be informing them that it is more stable, more secure for the Austrians when the European Union is expanding.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e11731	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Chief. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e11752	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! I would first like to make the following request, in order not to be in time: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! With this motion for a resolution, we would like to point out once again that we can imagine the enlargement of the East under certain strict conditions of our conceptions, but only if it can be understood as a contribution to the security of Europe and not lead to an uncertainty of Europe, to more unemployment and to an exorbitant competition at the expense of workers in the new Europe. We feel quite in line with the demands of the Austrian Trade Union Day on this subject for a long time. I believe that the ÖGB's demands for appropriate transitional periods for freedom of movement on the labour market, for transitional periods for freedom of services, for the adoption of the minimum social standards, for an aid programme for border regions, for a stop in road transport, for the technical safety of nuclear power plants – only then does the ÖGB welcome the accession of the reform states – correspond to what we have. I believe that the interests of workers should not simply be sacrificed at the altar of the EU and at the end of this Vienna Summit and at the end of the Austrian Presidency of the Council of the European Union, and I believe that there has been much movement. In the important area of employment policy, we are almost where we stood a year and a half ago. The Treaty of Amsterdam has not yet been ratified and has not yet been fully implemented in this area. The national employment programmes, which are in place, bear a clear witness to the fact that the highly praised Austrian social policy does not have the leading role that has always been claimed. Among the "best practices" there is no single program from Austria. The Commission's criticism of being an old hat, some of which has been shown to be unsuccessful due to the labour market figures and the disparity of the employment income of women in Austria from 1990 to the present. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The fact that we have failed in all the other areas of the present points is just mentioned. It cannot be surprising, therefore, that today the Federal Chancellor did not mention the Austrian figures and the developments of the last month, but limited himself to the EU's savings effects, and he accused them for himself, because nothing has been done in his own country. But where, according to the figures, there seems to have been some progress in youth employment, the EU's criticism is also harsh: It is about a three-year drop-off track, the further employment will be assessed only after that, and it will only then be possible to assess whether the path of youth training which has taken place today is actually a more successful one or only an intermediate stage between school, teaching or teaching in the most diverse institutions and training and then subsequent unemployment. The reports and comments are available. They are not only withdrawing our criticism, but they are constantly being tried to bring them to Parliament by detours as late as possible and as far as possible, in order to make it difficult for us to obtain the relevant information in the debates. Today, Mr. Federal Chancellor and Mr. Vice-Chancellor, you have been wrong. The reports from Brussels about your appearance there or from Strasbourg have reached us for a long time. The criticism of the Luxembourg Santer, for example, who has strongly criticized you, who simply and simply formulated that nothing has gone on – literally, Mr Vice-Chancellor! – has now reached Austria. What you wanted to achieve here with this urgent request, namely to prevent the opposition from throwing up the military questions in a urgent one or, on the other hand, to show the failure in the field of security inspection and the persecution of the pilots, you have certainly reached. However, you have not achieved that you have been able to create a joyful mood in Austria over a summit that has remained modest in its final results, although he has admittedly brought you both a number of kilometers. I would like to conclude by saying: We are proud of Austria. We are also proud of the Austrians, because they have secured an excellent starting point in Europe despite the poor conditions of the Federal Government of Austria. That's not God's. Your merit, Federal Chancellor!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e11845	The motion for a resolution, by Mr Magistrate, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Helmut Peter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e11869	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! For me, the statements by the Federal Chancellor and Mr Vice-Chancellor on the Austrian Presidency of the Council of the EU were a disappointment. They were a disappointment because they were embarrassing self - praise. A little more self-criticism, a little more distance, would have highlighted the achievements of the Austrian Presidency in the Council of the European Union. You could have said clearly what you did not achieve. We would then have had a report that would have been more debateable than what we have now experienced in embarrassing lobbying. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The Austrian Federal Government has left a very big opportunity to pass, out of domestic policy interests, if I do not even call it internal political cowardice. We are the country in the European Union, which must have the highest interest in ensuring that the European Union is enlarged as quickly as possible. In this respect, the rapporteur's motion for a resolution, which he has just tabled, goes exactly in the wrong direction, because exactly what he calls for, namely to adapt the social and labour standards and standards, to adapt the environmental standards, is part of the acquis communautaire, is part of the accession negotiations, and that is exactly what we achieve most quickly and best by including the EU candidate countries into the European Union. With the process of moving out Easter enlargement through conditions, you, my colleague, are putting yourself in the ranks of those member countries of the European Union, which today are the so-called Nehmer countries, who find a hundred reasons to prevent the deepening of the EU, in order to prevent the EU enlargement from taking place over the deepening that does not take place. So you hit the bag and you finally mean the donkey. It's too obvious to me. This request should not be accepted. Your wording that workers' interests would be sacrificed at the altar of the EU is an abjectly false keyword – in order not to use the word "dump" – because the very opposite is true! Austria is the country that has the most borders with the EU accession candidates – to which I would like to add Slovakia after the change there – Austria is the country that has the highest interest in getting new, larger markets, Austria is the country that, in relation to its size, has the most investment in these countries. Austria needs these markets, Austria needs the permeability of these borders, so that we can take a second time with the advantage that we have already received with our accession to the European Union: that our Austrian industry has suddenly found new markets and that the growth of the last three years has finally been a harvest of the EU accession to Austria in 1995. In the same way, we have a second harvest, a second harvest in the enlargement of the neighbouring countries, which gives us the opportunity not only to have to work on saturated markets in the displacement competition, but to find new opportunities in unsaturated markets. This is the great failure of our EU Presidency. Austria would have had the opportunity to make this a priority, but the Federal Chancellor explained what one would like to hear in Austria and what is very important in the interior political forerunner. I know that employment is very important, but I believe that the public employment opportunities are not to talk about it, but to change the economic environment in such a way that more employment is possible and that it should be extended to the east, because this gives us the opportunity to actively have more employment in Austria on new markets. Internal security and integration are important. The external security that Mr Vice-Chancellor has adopted is a very essential concern, and stability and growth policy all want, but the focus of interest in the enlargement of the European Union must lie with Austria. The fact that there will be transitional periods when there will be still difficult negotiations is not a question at all, but one argument, ladies and gentlemen, cannot apply, that is the argument of differences in income. If you compare income within the European Union, you can see that Greece's income is 69 per cent – the average is 100 per cent – and that Luxembourg is 166 per cent, which is a difference of almost one per cent. If the Austrian income difference between the weakest areas in the Burgenland and the strongest and richest areas in the urban agglomerations is achieved, one can see that even since the income difference is almost one to three. This is less about income differences, but about the clear will that the euro, as Gusenbauer rightly said, cannot be the end point of European integration, but must take a further step. The EU's deepening of the EU should therefore have been a priority in our EU Presidency that enlargement of the EU would have been the goal. In these two areas you have had plenty of moves.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e11930	Mr Wabl is now speaking. The remaining speaking time of the Green Group in this debate is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e11952	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Foreign Minister! Mrs Klubobfrau Petrovic has already referred to your foreign-political speech before the UN. Federal Minister! You know, in areas where it is not directly involved, directly concerned with specific figures which the Minister of Finance must then represent, it is possible to discuss carefully, to give fine speeches, to conduct a good discussion, since there are very differentiated lines of argument, but in the very concrete matter in which you, as a Foreign Minister or you, as a political leader, can form concrete foreign policy and internal policy, there is a need to express your views. But where have you done this today and now? The Federal Chancellor has agreed, and you, Mr Partyobmann and Foreign Minister, are sitting here and obviously not saying anything either. I will now demonstrate to you, on the basis of our legislation, how the policy in our country is in relation to arms exports. The War Materials Act has the following wording, ladies and gentlemen: § 5 states: "A permit according to § 3 is not necessary for the import of war material by the Federal Minister of Defence for the Federal Army..." – that goes on. Abs. 2 reads: "The export of war material by that of the Abs. The first sentence of the German Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs requires the approval of the Federal Government." – That is, if the Federal Minister for the Defence of the State is to carry out, the Federal Government will have to approve it. Foreign Minister! I ask you: What kind of business is that? The Ministry of Defense writes 40,000 Austrian stormguns. Nationals report, and foreigners also report. It reports a arms dealer from Switzerland, and this arms dealer from Switzerland buys these 40 000 guns in Bausch and Bogen. Federal Minister! Which section is responsible for this? Has a private person been exported here, for example by Steyr Mannlicher, or has the Federal Ministry of State Defense been exported here by Federal Minister Fassleven?
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e11983	Mr Wabl! The debate on the EU Presidency is a very wide-ranging issue – from agriculture to transport, science and all kinds of issues – but you are now clearly insisting on dealing with a different subject without any doubt. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Wabl! Wabl!]] I ask you to act like everyone else. It is about the EU Presidency – with further interpretation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e12010	Federal Minister Schüssel! The EU Presidency has also declared itself clearly and exclusively for a specific human rights policy in these areas, Mr Foreign Minister Schüssel has clearly declared himself before the UN, and I believe that it is a question of credibility as the Foreign Minister is in the international political debate. But if there is a gross violation of the war material law, I expect in this House of Representatives that the Federal Government will take this position and not just forward it to parliamentarian Maitz, who is staggering about fragility, impertinence and other things, but I expect a clear interpretation of the war material law according to § 5. Whether there has been injury will ultimately judge the prosecutor's office, Mr Maitz. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Today we can easily talk about the National Socialists, Mr Maitz. We can easily talk about who did not look at it at that time, but how will future generations talk about you, Mr Maitz, when you are asked: [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: Wabl doesn't bear the truth!]] Who delivered the weapons for the African war scene? Who delivered the weapons for Bosnia and the Balkans? Then there are responsible people sitting here, Mr Maitz, and not only small arms dealers, who are doing their dirty business somewhere. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is the crucial question, and I expect the Federal Government to take a clear position on it.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e12060	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e12076	Mr President. I am already at my conclusion. . I expect a clear opinion from the Federal Government, in particular from the Federal Chancellor and also from the Foreign Minister. For by the deeds you will know them, not by the great speeches.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e12106	The next speaker was Mr. Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e12127	Mr President. High house! It would, of course, be tempting – but time is not enough – to ask the strategic question, which we sometimes debate here, because, of course, it is very much in political terms when, after a change of power in Germany, the new government says with a new Chancellor: We have a net payer position that seems to us á la longue too high, so we want it to be a different distribution of the loads! This is done with an internal policy reference alone, saying: In future, we want to finance jobs not in the EU area, but especially in Germany, especially in the new Länder! In particular, we want to reduce the current number of 4 million unemployed, so that we have any legitimacy to be re-elected in the next elections! That's the one side. It is to be accepted, and the national employment programmes are a puzzle in considering increasing employment in Europe as a whole. But I have to ask myself the question in this context: For what purpose, with what instruments? Why do I, for example, want to reduce the agricultural budget? What do I want to create new financial scope for the EU? What really is the project I have, and with what instruments can I achieve it? – There are still many questions open, but we will have to try to answer them. What does the institutional reform mean for Austria? Will we have more weight or less weight? Is a constitution at European level an advantage or a disadvantage for us? Is the majority capacity in the population already developed in such a way that it is said: What is progress in Europe is ultimately also progress for Austria? Does that mean: What is a better economic situation in Europe, better coordination of the economy, social policy, financial policy, is good for Austria as well? If it succeeds in conveying all this that, as an Austrian, one thinks European in the sense of Austria, although one really thinks Austrian, then one already has a better condition and a better chance of majority capacity for projects which were not initially majority. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That's what I'm accusing of the FPÖ: She doesn't want to! She does not want this because she thinks in this respect in a short-sighted way and because she does not have this approach. – But the strategic question is a crucial one! Second point: The opposition parties are always given the impression that this federal government would be the federal government of a 50, 60, 70-million state. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: But you claimed that five years ago!]] That's not her! That does not mean, however, that we must make ourselves smaller, that is, not that we must claim refusal of design. That really wasn't done! The time that the Austrian Presidency had to deal with is one of the most interesting months, as honourable Member Gusenbauer correctly said. It was a time when huge changes, huge changes, have occurred. You should also take note of this with your small, provincial view, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, that this was such an epoch. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Epoch?- Oh, my God!]] There's been a paradigm change. Remember the Maastricht debate, remember that stability was the priority at the time, and remember that the change of power in different governments in Europe was not just about stability, but about stability and employment becoming key elements of policy. You should take note of all of this! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You – and that is the really objectionable – are employment sausages, for you, employment is the subject of your opposition policy strategies. [[Abg. Young: How are you? Look at the unemployment rate!]] Today it benefits you, today you are in employment. If you were to vote against employment, you would be against employment. [[Abg. Haigermoser: How many employees do you have besides your parliamentary staff?]] If it were to be useful for you to go up and down on all four here in Parliament, you would go up and down here in Parliament on all fours. That's your political understanding! But we don't want to have anything to do with this! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Therefore, the question of enlargement of the EU should also be assessed from this point of view. It is therefore also positive that the talks have started on this. [[Abg. Haigermoser: How many employees does Cap have besides the parliamentary staff?]] This does not mean that one will not insist that the acquis communautaire is to be fulfilled that the socio-economic standards are to be achieved. Of course, that's what it's supposed to be. In the interests of the EU candidate countries concerned! It's a different word when you say: In the interests of the candidates for EU enlargement, we therefore call for one, two, three, four, five! They say something else! They say: In the interests of the tribal fascists, therefore, we do not want to and therefore demand: one, two, three, four, five! [[Abg. Young: In the interests of the unemployed, we demand: one, two, three, four, five!]] This is the crucial political and moral difference. Therefore, there will never be a commonness between us – even in this question!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e12256	The next speaker is Mrs Aumayr. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes, club speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e12278	Mr President. Minister! High house! Mr Cap! They demand employment policy: one, two, three, four. They tumble from one employment summit to another. But with what result? – With the result that unemployment rates explode in the EU. That's the result of your commitment! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] On the comments by Mr Gusenbauer: Mr Gusenbauer said that whatever Dr. Haider prophesied about joining the EU, the opposite had happened. So how a Social Democratic can go here and make a statement, where his party colleague, Mr. Ederer, lied to Austrians and lied to the EU...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e12302	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Please use a different language! I reject that expression!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e12317	The Austrians have promised that every family will save 1,000 s if we join the EU. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Do you know how high the inflation rate was?]] The opposite has occurred! [[Live calls at SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Mr Schwarzböck has made the same claim. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Do you know how high the inflation rate was?]] The opposite is true of all that the EIA has promised farmers to join the EU. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Have you ever used the billboard before?]] Where are the discounted assets? . Today in Austria we have the highest diesel fuel price in the EU, but in return we have the lowest milk price. But what is happening to the CAP reform in Agenda 2000 will cause a farmer's death, as we have never experienced in Europe. I would have liked a discussion to be held at the EU Presidency. There is a study on this, Mr Schwarzböck, and I have already been surprised that you have not mentioned to the farmers today in your speech with a word, although you know very well that in the CAP reform... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Black goats.]] You have only spoken about the enlargement of the EU, but you have not spoken of the farmers. They did not mention that in the CAP reform, price reductions of minus 30 percent for cattle, minus 20 percent for cereals and minus 15 percent for milk are planned for farmers. They did not talk about the fact that, if the CAP reform is implemented as it is presented to your party colleague, Commissioner Fischler, in Europe by 2005, 3 million farmers will lose their jobs and will have to leave their farms. This must be imagined: 3 million unemployed farmers come to 17 million unemployed in the EU! If these farmers don't leave the farms, but stay on their farms, they have a 17 percent reduction in income. Do you know what that means? This is also a ballast for Austrian agriculture. That is why it is high time you finally fulfilled a promise that you have also secured contractually, namely the increase in the rate of VAT. You will have the opportunity to do so at our request today.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e12394	The next speaker is Mr Smolle. The remaining speaking time of his group is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e12416	Gospod predsednik! Gospod Minister! Visoki stupid! High house! Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I think that the whole debate is a little wrong, because we are too concerned about the past. I am not in itself so disappointed by the Austrian Presidency of the Council of the EU because I did not expect much. It is therefore reasonable if you do not expect too much, because then you are not so sad on the balance sheet day. Why should Austrian politics in Europe be so much better than it is at home? In this sense it is a moderate success. The six months were somehow brought over the rounds. Of course, it is incomprehensible that today we had to listen to some kind of canon of praise from the two principals. That was of course not appropriate, and in this sense the introduction of this urgent request is not all right. We have expected a very critical European report, but not a praise for what Austria has done great things. All the essential points have remained unsolved – regardless of whether it is the question of security policy whether it is the question of the potential for conflict resolution, whether it is the question of Agenda 2000 or whether it is, for example, the question of reducing the agricultural budget. All these questions remain open! To announce employment policy as a programme policy can, of course, anyone. The question is: How many unemployed have there been since June, July 1998? That's the question! And we say: Nothing substantial has changed. It would have been important to me – and I actually expected that – to say what one intends to do for the future. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! You said you could not accept some of these things you had proposed because you, as President of all, need consensus. – Mr Vice-Chancellor! I would ask you, now that you are free from the burden and burden of the Presidency, that you now make more initiatives, that you are an initiative, especially in the field of security policy, in the field of agricultural policy, but of course also in a very special area, namely that Europe will finally be able to resolve its conflicts itself. In this context, I would like to reaffirm that, Mr Vice-Chancellor, we need a European People's Group law. We need the possibility of handling and we need to be able to deal with conflicts. This is particularly to be seen as prevention, and you have simply failed. There are still crises, they are not disintegrated, they are equally present in their brilliance. Ladies and gentlemen! In this respect, you simply have not shown any competence. That is why I would have expected a brief report on what has happened so far. Although not much has happened, you could have given an extensive report and plan on how we will do better – especially now that you are freed from this burden in the EU. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] In this sense, the FPÖ's request – and I would just like to mention this with one sentence – has turned wrong, populist and backwards. In view of such strong markets – we are expected to have a 106 million market at least – it makes no sense to exclude ourselves again. This does not make sense, especially when we know that the somewhat better economy in Austria can be thanks to exports to the East, ladies and gentlemen. That's where we're making the additional profits that other states couldn't make. – This is therefore a completely absurd process. In this sense, I allow myself to assemble more materiality. Gentlemen on the government bank! Make Finally, you have a proposal on this, and you say that we should change things! What does new employment policy mean? – Does it stay with the announcements or follow actions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e12471	There is now a speech by Mr Wenitsch. Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you still have one minute's speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e12492	Ladies and gentlemen! In addition to dirty statements of intent and a burden on taxpayers of 900 million schilling, nothing has been achieved during this Presidency. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr Schwarzböck! I'm waiting for your consent.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e12541	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mr Wenitsch has been tabled and presented in accordance with the rules of procedure. He is involved in the negotiations, but is now over, because there is no more word. I therefore conclude the debate and ask you to take the places. We shall come to the vote, and we shall vote first of all on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Main and comrades on the urgency of measures to strengthen Austria's economic power and to secure jobs in the context of EU enlargement. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution by the honourable Member. The main thing is to have a sign of approval. – This is the minority. This request is therefore rejected. We shall continue to vote on the second motion for a resolution. This is the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Aumayr and Mr Comrades on the fight against unfair tax practices of the Federal Government. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Where's Meischberger with the tax?]] I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. This motion for a resolution is rejected. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Where's Haider?]] [[Calls to the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Before we reach the next point, I would like to ask you for discipline. It was so loud this morning. It is obvious that there is a habit of louder debate during the vote. I cannot even vote. I would ask you to be here in the future at least with the appropriate discipline and silence! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: This is always the ÖVP!]] Short debate on deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e12624	We now come to a brief debate on the request by Mr Wabl, the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on Amendment 723/A (E) concerning the failure of confidence in the Federal Minister for Defence of the State. In 1999 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, The vote on this motion for a deadline will take place after the debate we are now taking place. I would remind you of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure on the Rules of Procedure: The first speaker has for reasons a speaking time of 10 minutes, all other Members have a speaking time of 5 minutes. The opinions of the members of the Federal Government and the State Secretary should also not exceed this time limit. I now give the floor to Mr Wabl, the first speaker, for reasons. Mr deputies, you have 10 minutes of speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e12658	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In connection with the violation of the Federal Constitution, in connection with the behaviour of the Federal Minister of State Defense in his determined approach towards NATO accession, the Greens have introduced a non-trust request against the Federal Minister of State for Defence in connection with his often made statements, which are clearly no longer on the ground of the Austrian Federal Constitution. This motion of censure is available and has been assigned, but is not negotiated by you. It is not only that the Foreign Minister and the Federal Chancellor refuse to discuss it, but it is also true that this House is not prepared to discuss opposition requests and then reject them. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: (a poster holding high) Andreas!]] Federal Minister Fassleven yesterday tried on TV, the ball towards Caspar To play it and make it a coalition question to close the line of defense, so to speak. Ladies and gentlemen! If you have dealt with Article 5 of the Law on War Materials, you will be right for the Green Group to state that it is time to deal with this motion for censure and to present it to the House for a decision. Ladies and gentlemen! In Austria, it is possible to disregard a law on the part of the Federal Government by means of a simple case. – Cases: One has 40 000 rifles in the Ministry of Defence, creates a mailbox in the middle of Austria, sells de facto to a Swiss one, but claims that the letter box has carried out the business with me, and then puts § 5 of the War Material Act, that is, the strongest passage, that an export can only take place through the consent of the Federal Government, out of strength and violates this provision. Ladies and gentlemen! There is also another variant of the Federal Minister for Defence: One creates a warehouse in the middle of Austria, makes a purchase contract with a arms dealer, with a arms dealer from another country – from Switzerland, from Holland, from Botswana or elsewhere – and then asserts that these weapons are located in the middle of Austria in short term, there is no export of wararms according to § 5 and therefore no requirement for the Federal Government. Federal Minister! You mean you can put this thing out here. They have already prepared an application to deliver 41 tanks – old tanks, Kurassier – in countries where there is evidence that there is either a crisis, strong military conflicts, or they are already in full swing. They are not ashamed of the policy, which is officially represented by the Foreign Minister before the UN, to disavow and politically broken those policies which were officially represented by the Federal Chancellor during the EU Presidency. There are two aspects in this matter: moral and legal. The moral aspect is clear: You should have just set up the "standard" of today, and there is on page 5: Illegal weapons flood Africa. – There are precisely those countries in which these weapons, these stormguns have arrived and for which there is now an application for the export of Austrian old tanks. – Ladies and gentlemen! This is the moral side of this business, which the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs is obviously doing offensively. In my opinion, he has now also tried to make the forehead, the public and the people's representatives aware that he has only sold to a private person. This is by chance a Swiss arms dealer, by chance a Dutch arms dealer, but there was a warehouse in between, it was a mailbox in between. The fact that the officials are running a long time ago, however, that already in the arms industry it is clear that Austria's altars can be used cheaply to provide the crisis regions, Mr Fassl evening's Minister is not interested! . The House should be prepared to discuss this request and to vote on it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But where are the old young socialists, such as Mr Gusenbauer? – He has not lost a sentence about it! Where is Mr Cap, who was a fighter against the arms exports?- Oh, my God! – At that time he was still demonstrating, then he carried the red cloves in the large left button hole. Today is only a big hole in the debate when discussing the morality of this kind of policy of the Federal Government! The Federal Chancellor has not lost any sentence about it. This is not necessary, because it is "only" the people's representation. The show business must continue. Obviously what you are doing here, ladies and gentlemen and Mr Maitz, is just a big show for the "Aunt" Klasnic, for television, for your newspapers, for your wine tastings, Mr. Zweytick! You are not interested in what is actually happening in this world! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You are always at the wine tastings!]] If You would have read today's paper, and you would know that for a long time the control of weapons of mass destruction has been at the top of the international agenda. But it is the automatic rifles and handguns that caused most of the dead and mutilated in the conflicts of recent years. These are exactly those weapons, Mr. Federal Minister, of whom you think they can be sold! 40,000 StG 58 – it's probably a lot, much more. These are only those papers that we get, we've been given to those people who obviously don't agree to that anymore, who obviously don't think this is legitimate. Ladies and gentlemen! You have it in your hand to discuss it offensively. My dear comrades of the ÖVP and comrades of the Social Democracy! Give off your baptizer, Mr. Khol! Mr. Cap, release your Social Democratic Party Book, continue to do so – and keep your Christmas sleep! The Federal Minister will deliver his 41 Kurassies to Africa, and Mr Gaal will salute and say: Everything's all right, baths all right, cannons all right. You can resign!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e12727	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e12749	Mr President. High house! I must say that in my activity here in the House as a Member of the National Council for over a decade now, I have never heard, as a member of the Federal Government, a reason for a motion for censure or a time-limit which was so substantial. This follows exactly what I mentioned yesterday. In contrast, you try to make a political question from the sale of old arms and equipment carried out by the Republic of Austria for decades, which you try to attach to the Ministry of Defence and the Minister of Defense, according to the motto: [[Abg. Wabl: They publicly say the untruth and claim such things!]] [[Abg. Wabl: You have publicly claimed the untruth!]] Something's going to hang! You are doing this systematically in the sense of your own statement, namely that everything must be done to scandalize this area. I would therefore like to point out to you your constant attempts to defame, scandalize, even criminalize, the most violent and decisive! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] In order to make it clear to all the public, I would like to refer once again and here to the legislative text for the relevant legislation and legal provisions: [[Abg. Wabl: Don't read § 3 before, it's for private business!]] The National Council decided – more than 20 years ago – that: The import, export and transit of war material shall, without prejudice to the authorizations required under other legislation, be granted in accordance with this Federal Act. The introduction, export and transit of war material must be regarded as the movement of war material across the state border. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Over the state border!]] [[Abg. Wabl: That's incredible!]] § 3 reads: The approval referred to in § 1 will be granted by the Federal Minister of the Interior in agreement with the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Federal Minister for State Defense after consulting the Federal Chancellor – unless otherwise required by law or international law – in accordance with Article 130(1). 2 B-VG granted. And that's what we need to consider. – It is clearly clarified by the law, which can be understood by the export of weapons or war materials. [[Abg. Wabl: You quote the wrong paragraphs, Minister!]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] And it is also clear who is responsible. [[Abg. Wabl: That's unfair what you're doing here! You quote the wrong paragraphs!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: He can't let Wabl read!]] I would now also like to bring you closer to the material component. The Federal Ministry of State Defense, as it has been for several decades now Usus, has designated the old stock, which we no longer need, in the sense of this law and the paragraphs accordingly. That is, the sale of 40,000 stormguns has been publicly advertised. This was in May 1996 or June, and the public invitation to tender for sale was made in June 1996. There was an interest in this. Several companies have requested that the tender documents be sent. The calls for tenders have included, as a condition, the presence of an authorization by the Ministry of the Interior. Since this authorisation could not be granted within the tendering period, the company concerned took place on 22 December. ==References====External links== In July, the application submitted to the BMLV was that it could not provide this confirmation in time and would therefore be pending the deadline likely to take between four and six weeks. At the opening of the offer, it turned out that Brügger + Thomet was the best bidder from Switzerland. It has had the best offer and has only received the completed award after the BMI's export authorisation has been issued – after the export authorisation has been granted; as was foreseen in the offer. The Treaty became legal only in November. Each contract has not only one object of fulfillment, but also conditions, a place of fulfillment, and it has a time of fulfillment. The place of performance was clearly defined, and the actual handling is also to be accurately understood. The goods were collected from the camps of the Federal Army and are on the 10th. ==References====External links== ==References== ==References====External links== We've got to pick up January in Vienna. Since then, the contract has been fulfilled in such a way and has been valid. – Therefore, the transfer of the goods across the border by the Austrian Federal Army cannot in any way be the talk! Now, as you know, of course, something has to be tried to attach it to the Minister of Defence. I am therefore telling you how it actually happened – not with my own words, because after your division of the Ministers of Defense, it is possible to defend itself again, but I am telling you with the words of the Federal Chancellor's Office, namely, the Constitutional Service, which has delivered an opinion on this. I will read this to you literally, so that you also know very well. ==References====External links==* Official website December 1998: The Federal Chancellor's Office/Constitutional Service is honoured to inform the competent public prosecutor in accordance with § 84 StPO with the request to forward it to: ==References====External links== In September 1996, Brügger + Thomet Feinmechanik, now Brügger + Thomet AG, Oberlandstraße..., was granted the export of 40 000 stormguns StG 58 to the Swiss Confederation and demilitarisation to the United States of America, Canada, the French Republic and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, to Japan and to the Kingdom of Belgium under the terms and conditions specified in the notice. - Quote. According to the Federal Chancellor's Office, we, the Federal Ministry of the Interior! It also says exactly how it went on – I quote –: ==References====External links== A similar authorisation was granted once again in August. – Untechnically, you can say: extension of the authorisation. Brügger + Thomet AG again sought extension of the authorisation to the number of business – it is further mentioned – of the Federal Ministry of the Interior, with the addition to the request, including 215 storm rifles to Holland, 1 000 storm rifles to Romania, 1 675 storm rifles to Botswana and 30 storm guns to Italy on the basis of the permits granted. ==References====External links== In November 1998, Brugger + Thomet AG was invited to comment on the suspicion of unauthorised exports. In this opinion, recorded on the number of operations of the Federal Ministry of the Interior, Brugger + Thomet AG confirms that not all weapons have been demilitarized and that exports have been made to countries not covered by the above mentioned documents. At the same time, applications are submitted for subsequent export authorisations. In the annex, the relevant documents of the Federal Chancellery/Constitutional Service shall be transmitted in brief. The Federal Chancellery/Constitutional Service asks for its understanding of the reasons there. Signed for Federal Chancellor Okresek. That is the situation, and that says who is responsible for an authorisation, as it stands in the law. But what you're doing is nothing but constantly trying to put everything militaryly to the prangler, not only to defamate it, but, as you have said, also to criminalize it! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] I would like to say on this occasion that I am awaiting an excuse from you, simply because I feel it is absolutely inappropriate for a Member to try to bring an illegal accusation to a minister of this Republic, to accuse him of a breach of law, or to put the action of the Republic in such a light at all. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ]] I think that's unheard of and should also be put off accordingly! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I would like to say something about this, Mr Wabl. [[Abg. Wabl: The truth is not twisted by power either!]] You have referred to the case of tanks for sale. I can also give you an immediate information. What is available here is not an export application. But what is available here is an investigation into whether the sale of 41 scrap parts, which have been stored for years on a property in Simmering, which therefore has to be cleared because of the sale of this property, could be carried out in states which own these equipment as normal equipment in their armies. These are those states that have the "Kürassier" there as the corresponding device. It is, of course, close to selling these parts not somewhere, but where they can be used as spare parts. The Ministry's care can be seen in the course of the procedure that, before any action is taken, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is asked before whether there is a crisis area, whether it would be possible or imaginable to spend or export weapons there. Finally, I would like to make the following comment: Not only do I find it unheard of how you, Mr Wabl, are trying to bring a certain trend into the debate, but I would also like to say: The Greens have always fought against the Federal Army and all the military – but then suddenly, when there was war in Croatia, there have also been representatives like Mrs Petrovic, who have suddenly demanded the intervention of the Federal Army, when it comes to a particular type of action. [[Oh-Rufe at the ÖVP]] I would like to refer to this example: For us, weapons are not there to send them to war, in a willful or otherwise sense, but: For us, they are there to protect people from being killed or driven by aggressors, so that they have to leave their country for war. On this occasion I would also like to say: If there had been no military intervention in Bosnia, this crisis would probably continue. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] If there were no threat of military intervention in Kosovo, there would probably be no chance of a peaceful settlement in Kosovo. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would therefore ask you to: Leave off this perfid kind of politics – in the interests of security for other people!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e12968	Mr Ing. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party to the You and the following speakers now have a business time limit of 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e12989	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We could see from the statements made by the Federal Minister that all the necessary steps have been taken on the right, and I am not in favour of giving faith. [[Abg. Wabl: Obscene! Indescribable! For your business!]] We will therefore not accept the Greens' request regarding the accusations of the cost explosion in connection with the decided Mech package or because of alleged illegal arms exports, because these claims are not sufficient for us to escape the confidence of the Federal Minister for Defence. – I would like to put that forward. This also applies, of course, to the proposal for a deadline which is under discussion today. But the question that arises for me is fundamental. The Federal Minister's statement was that the weapons, in this case the stormguns sold to Switzerland, were demilitarized there. I now ask myself in this context: What interest can a buyer have in buying functional weapons in Austria and transferring them to Switzerland to demilitarize them there? – It is likely that the only reason – when it comes to the cost question – is that these weapons are much cheaper for us. From my waiting, therefore, the question arises whether in such a case it would in principle be more reasonable to take off the work to the buyer, so to speak, and to carry out the demilitarization in his own home, in his own country, in order to remove the wind from the sails that would start the corresponding attacks – rightly or wrongly, I do not want to judge that now. One thing is clear: If the sale of these weapons takes place in a demilitarized state, they can no longer be used. If a magazine today reports that tanks are also to be sold and also called countries to which these tanks are to be delivered, the same question is also raised: Who buys this war material? Federal Minister! I therefore believe that we should, in principle, consider whether there is no other way of actually checking out the choice of countries in such a way that there is no longer any possibility for these countries to continue selling these weapons and making them operational – or to demilitarize them in Austria. [[Call to the ÖVP:The Minister of the Interior is checking!]] [[Further calls from MEPs Gaál and Grabner.]] We all know where such weapons land! Those who regularly read newspapers and magazines and those who follow the news on radio and television will find out again and again where weapons that may have been with us eventually land over many, many corners. That is why I would ask you, Mr Federal Minister, to do more of what you have outlined here, namely to take advantage of all the possibilities you have been given to prevent such a development. I call on you to continue to contribute more fully in the future to the fact that weapons still to be sold from us will be put into such a state that this will no longer happen. If, for financial reasons, a sale of weapons is necessary, it seems necessary that this is necessarily done in accordance with the standards of § 5 of the War Material Act. Federal Minister! Only by that, I mean, will all those who may not be the best friends of our federal army for other reasons. We Socialists confess to our federal army, and we also confess to those who want to ensure that our federal army is operational. Federal Minister! I would ask you to continue to pay attention to what you have outlined to us today so that such events do not lead to headlines that ultimately harm our army. We do not want this, so we reject this proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e13041	The next speaker is Dr. Maitz, Member of Parliament. Speaking time also 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e13063	Mr President. Federal Minister of State Defense! Ladies and gentlemen, Let me highlight two aspects in the context of this issue: the facts and the political value. The facts have been impressively and clearly presented by Mr Fassleven. The order for more than 40 000 rifles was awarded to the best bidder after a tender procedure. This one, if it exports it, has to be approved by the Federal Ministry of the Interior. Why Mr. Wabl's legal opinion is that it would not be possible to carry out the §-3 procedure which was properly applied here by all the ministries, but rather the §-5 procedure – this only applies if the Republic itself or the Minister himself or the Federal Ministry itself introduces or implements weapons for the purpose of the army – I can only explain to myself as his legal expert, whom he has consulted, Mr. Herwig Hauser, is not an expert in the War Materials Act, but, as can be clearly seen from a publication of the Bar Association, an expert on rental and lease issues, for leasing, travel law and competition law for intangible goods, so no expert on war material law. This is also explained by Mr Wabl's misconception. [[Abg. Wabl: Indescribable! We will not be able to prevent you from saying the untruth, but...!]] – I can only explain the misconception of Mr Wabl. Federal Minister Caspar One and his ministry, in accordance with the prescribed procedure laid down in Article 3, have granted approval in agreement with the other three Ministries and at the time have put in place a taxable list of countries in which these weapons may be resold, namely the United Kingdom, the United States, Japan, France and Belgium. The buyer company did not comply with this requirement. As a result, she was also told by the Ministry of the Interior, and a statement of the facts on this matter was made to the Public Prosecutor's Office. And I'll tell you the following: Neither the Ministry of the Interior nor the Ministry of Defence has any problem with the correct handling of this business, but we know exactly that it has been done correctly. Therefore, we do not hide a review – no matter who. Only Mr Wabl's legal expert would we rather not, because he is for something else expert, not for war material law. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If, in a accompanying paper, Mrs Petrovic will probably present her, the buyer company is mistakenly and falsely entering the "exporter" column of the Federal Ministry of Defence and not her own company, then please do not ask the Federal Minister of State for Defence to do so, but then this company is to draw attention to the fact that she needs to fill out this form properly. [[Abg. Wabl: fairytale uncle Maitz!]] Of course it is also known that the Federal Minister does not choose a buyer. I would like to say this in particular to Mr Klubobmann Kostelka, because tomorrow's "Kurier" mentions his statement, namely that Mr Wabl's request will not, of course, be accepted. However, the addition is – I quote – "... even if Fassleven did not choose its buyers optimally." - Quote. Mr. Federal Minister Fassleven has not chosen a buyer! An invitation to tender has been made according to the laws of our Republic, and the award has been given to the best bidder. Please don't step side! There has been clear and correct action. Political appreciation is clear. Mr Petrovic and Mr Wabl are well-known for the fact that they carry out the diffamation of the federal army with white untruths. It's known. The fact that they are now also making slanders against the Federal Minister is new. Trying to cut off honor and call murder is their thing. We're tired of this unblemished and shameless drive! They will not succeed, in spite of all the untruths not, in a correct action, an absolute integration into a recognized Federal Minister Werner Fassleven in that dirt in which they obviously like to move themselves.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e13123	I call Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e13145	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! Every minister has the defender he deserves. Mr Maitz has now become quite deeply involved in various boxes. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: A good defender!]] [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: Very objective! Really very objective!]] – Ladies and gentlemen, this is left to you. Now it's up to you. Today, we are discussing setting a deadline for a resolution by the Greens - the Minister is to express his distrust - to be tabled. This motion for a resolution is strange in two ways. On the one hand, it is out of dispute that a request for distrust is the most effective means of a parliamentarian, with whom he can avail himself of his right of control vis-à-vis a member of the government. This means should be a spontaneous response to a minister's illegitimate, possibly illegal behaviour. There is already a question of whether an independent motion for a resolution... [[Abg. Müller keeps an up-to-date copy of the "Kronen Zeitung" up-to-date and shows an article under lively calls.]] – colleague up there in the second row, take care of windshields! I'd think about keeping newspapers up in your place instead of playing here to the Morala Police. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Grabner: Let's talk about Meischberger!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Mr Wabl! There is already a question of whether an independent motion for a resolution can be such a spontaneous response, especially if there are arguments for this mistrust that date from 1996 and 1997. . I believe that a motion of censure of this kind pursues other purposes, such as that, whenever it is appropriate, to bring this issue into a current debate by setting deadlines or other parliamentary measures. [[Abg. Grabner: Meischberger!]] Secondly, I do not think the content and justification of this motion for a resolution should be aimed at speaking, for example, of statements made by the Minister of Defence to join NATO or of Austrian soldiers participating in a "PfP" exercise, where even Switzerland is now a member of the "Partnership for Peace". – All these are things that make a mistrust request appear unwarranted. [[Abg. Grabner: Meischberger!]] Nevertheless, one can discuss whether – and if so why – this minister is mistrusted. There would be a number of points of discussion to this effect, but the Greens have not put in this obsolete proposal nor in today's debate. In contrast to their argumentation, for example, the question of why the Minister and the Government have not yet made a decision on the basic orientation of security policy and all the disadvantages that have arisen for Austria. For example, one might also ask why this Federal Minister, in his term of office – he is famous for being the long-serving minister – decided on two new military divisions by which the German army was disassembled in practice and which the soldiers were insecure. We should also ask why this Federal Minister, together with the Federal Government, does not provide this army with sufficient budget to maintain at least an emergency operation which would ensure that our country is safeguarded in a serious case. It should also be asked why this Federal Minister and the Federal Government are not even able to implement the procurement projects and packages already decided in the Council of State Defense. These are the questions and arguments that seemed to make sense to discuss this Parliament's means of distrusting a minister. Nevertheless, I add: Due to our many years of practice, we will give our consent to the deadline for this request. Even if it is said that this request is in fact not up-to-date with its explanatory statement, it should be ensured that, as soon as possible, but perhaps with other arguments, it is agreed on it. However, I think that a motion of censure, as a spontaneous reaction, would probably be better than a motion for a resolution, which is self-evident in a debate on the subject. A few comments on the current argument on arms sales. This, of course, is the continuation of a debate which we have held repeatedly over the last 20, 25 years and in which there has always been an "Austrian solution". What's this about? – One produces weapons in the country, one wants to sell them too, but by various legal measures one is forced to be more papal than the Pope, and one says: In countries where these weapons may also be able to be used, we do not want to export them! – This is, of course, a contradiction in itself! Who – including Austria – buys weapons and why? – Of course for being able to use them in a serious case; hopefully for good purposes. The sale of these 40-year-old stormguns, to the theme of these 30-year-old tanks now, I really think is a good idea. That would require more honesty. Instead, clear directives on arms production and exports should be put in place, for example, within the framework of the European Union, and should ensure effective control. But to use this topic for scandalization now, I think it is missing.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e13271	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Peter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e13292	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I think the House knows that Mr Wabl is not green to the Federal Army. That is what he has put into a resolution, and that is his good right. An independent motion for a resolution, as Mr Scheibner said, is unusual. If I were Minister Fassleven, I would ask the Group of the People's Party to ensure that this motion is dealt with as quickly as possible so that it is out of the table. Otherwise, this motion for censure is floating in the committee without you, Mr Minister, being able to do anything about it. We will therefore agree to the deadline. I should like to add, however, that I cannot imagine that we are approaching the content of this motion for a resolution. To Causa itself. Federal Minister! It's really exciting: Weapons are only released for export on condition that they are demilitarized and only delivered in certain countries. That's what the law says, and you've proved it. I believe that everything has been done with right things. But de facto these weapons will not be demilitarized and not delivered to the countries in the respective notice. You have to ask yourself: Why is that so? – One has to break one's head. The fact is... [[Deputies Dkfm. Mühlbachler and Dr. Maitz:Who is responsible?- Oh, my God!]] – Of course, the Minister of the Interior. [[New calls from MEPs Murauer, Dr Maitz and Dkfm. Mühlbachler.]] – Yes, now the reds have to scream. But that's not the point! That's like pushing a hot earth apple around. It is about the German army selling weapons - I know the Minister of the Interior has issued the notice - but obviously these weapons did not arrive where they should have arrived, and above all they were not demilitarized. What did you think when you sold the 40 000 storm guns, Mr. Landeswehr? Have you believed that the souvenirs that the Japanese hang in their wall cabinets are the Americans in their bars and that the Belgians are taking home? Did you really believe this, Mr. Minister? Did you not know in your stem brain – I can't blame you because I can't prove it – that a dealer will find any way to sell these weapons? Faith You really do, someone gives you 7 million schilling for demilitarized scrap, which he can only send to America and Belgium? Did you really believe that? – I cannot imagine, Minister of State, that you are so naïve with your experience as Minister of Defence! In fact, the whole discussion of how we deal with weapons in Austria is a highly veiled, lying, up-and-coming debate. We've had it since the 18th century. October 1977 a war material law, and since then I have a discussion after the other in which it is tried to circumvent this law. I propose to the coalition parties: If you don't think this war material law is useful because Austria is out of the international arms game, then make a request, bring in a new law. Make a law by what Mr. Federal Minister Fassleven wants – for example, selling 40 000 rifles in functional condition, anything else, such as the argument of the "souvenir industry", is a pure Kasperl theatre – is possible! Revival You're this law! But then you also have to debate in Parliament, which will of course break out whether Austria should be one of the exporters of war materials or not. Now, Austria de facto, except for a few exceptions, cannot be included. For the countries that need weapons, we must not sell them, and the other countries that do not need them will not buy them either. The only question is whether the world has improved considerably through our war material law, which has been in force for 20 years. I doubt it. But it is the government's job to make a change if it wants to do so. But how to dance around the "golden calf" and sell "souvenirs", I think that's kind of ridiculous!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e13337	The next speaker was Mrs Petrovic. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e13358	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! There is not the attempt by the Greens to criminalise the Federal Minister, but there is a criminal behaviour here in the area of the Federal Ministry of State Defense. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] It is true that this behavior is clear to § 5 para. 2 War materials law contradicts because of course the sale to a foreign dealer – the ex-definition resells and where there are no more than 40 000 pieces of Enduser certificates – is to be assessed according to § 5. But, Mr Federal Minister, even if it were to be judged in accordance with § 3, what an inadvertent, you have acted unlawfully! [[Call the ÖVP:No! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] For, of course, § 3 of the War Materials Act provides that no exports are to be made to countries where human rights are violated or where there is a place of conflict. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: That's what you're saying to the company!]] Then Enduser certificates should have been there! Have you believed, Mr Maitz, that a Swiss dealer hangs 40 000 guns over his own private fireplace? This is a little too naïve for you, Mr Maitz. [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] Even if § 3 had been applied, of course it was illegal. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: She can't read the law, the most gracious!]] Federal Minister! It was a smooth violation of the Code of Conduct of the European Union for Arms Exports of the 5th century. June 1998! [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: You have been wrong advice! You should look for a better lawyer!]] Even if you're still yelling so loud: It is a smooth violation of the Council of Europe resolution 642, and it is a smooth violation of the Austrian Federal Government's own objectives within the framework of the EU Council Presidency where you have written: better control of small and lighter weapons to reduce the suffering caused by them. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: A smooth nonsense what you're saying!]] [[further calls to the ÖVP]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign]] If you say we wash our hands in innocence, we've overturned the commitment of this Swiss arms dealer we believed he's hanging all 40 000 guns over his own fireplace. He has to break them before he hangs them over his own fireplace. – No, Mr Federal Minister, here you say the smooth untruth! Federal Minister! We have the contract to which you refer, the sales contract on the basis of the invitation to tender of 5. ==References== [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Take a look at the notice!]] And you're saying: The contract with the Federal Ministry of Defence contained the clause of demilitarization. – National Defence Region 9. ==References== ==References== I have the contract here, and he says the smooth opposite – gentlemen of the SPÖ, I have already shown it to you –: Demilitarisation by the Austrian federal army is not foreseen. It has not been transferred to this treaty, nor has it happened, nor is it in the notice to find a word of it, except in the American business. You have found a very "fine" solution in America's business, Mr. Federal Minister. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Maybe you can say that to the Minister of the Interior!]] For these approximately 10,000 weapons that are documented to us, you have cut the run, only you have in a business – and these papers are available to us! – exactly this run as a spare part comes with. That is, one demilitarizes a weapon by not passing it with a tank, because then it would really be broken, no, one saws the run and immediately delivers an intact run. – This is a smooth breach of law, Minister of State! [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Smooth nonsense!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] The decision of the Minister of the Interior has also been subsequently issued – after that, namely, 9th. September! In any case, it is a smooth break of the law – whether § 3 or § 5 War Material Act. Perhaps you will read § 6, Mr. Federal Minister, because in this statement it says that all of this is to be approved in advance for the respective final consumer. - That means the railway is over there. This has been illegal, from your place of business! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] As for your constant attempts to say, yes, the dealer has apparently broken the conditions, I would like to tell you that the dealer has quite a different memory, because the dealer says: [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: The fairy tale hour of Mrs. Petrovic!]] They reported on a regular basis where they reported it to them. If nothing has been stated, the StG 58 have been forwarded on fire. The dealer even enjoys himself about the Minister of State Defense and says: Please, what is the prison guard of Botswana with no guns prepared for fire? That is why, Minister of State: Please don't keep looking at such untruths that are really clear and clear about the facts!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e13554	Mr Fassleven, Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, spoke again. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e13575	Mr President. High house! Let me make a few comments on the comments that Mrs Petrovic has just made. To clarify here: A Treaty, which will be concluded in 1996, cannot take into account, for logical reasons, an EU resolution, which will be adopted in the spring of 1998. I would ask you to take this into account for purely logical reasons. - That's the first one. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: When were the applications submitted? – 21. November 1998!]] Secondly, They still claim that there was no obligation to demilitarize. – I would like to express this very clearly and clearly to you once again: ==References====External links== In September 1996, Dr. Schnabl, for the Federal Minister, said: "The permit for the export of 40 000 storm guns StG 58 by rail via Buchs or Wolfurt-Lustenau to the Swiss Confederation and after demilitarization to the United States of America, to Canada, the French Republic, to the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, to Japan and to the Kingdom of Belgium." [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: In the afternoon! It's illegal!]] - That's what he says. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Why do you say that's in the contract? The Treaty is the opposite!]] [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Petrovic) That's your invention! He didn't say that! Lie!]] I would like to read to you once again what the Federal Chancellor's Office's Constitutional Service notes: "After demilitarization into the United States of America" et cetera. – Hair exactly the same! I am now reading to you the copy of my statement on this subject on Austrian television. I quote literally: This was certainly a misinformation, because the Ministry of the Interior has prescribed this company exactly where it is allowed to deliver to America, to Belgium, to France, to Japan et cetera, and has also provided conditions for e.g. that the equipment is to be demilitarized et cetera, has set certain deadlines for compliance, about a year. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: This is a lie!]] This means that in a sense the weapons have to be rendered unusable, so that they are only available for certain purposes. - Quote. Whoever makes a lie there, ladies and gentlemen, every little child can see that!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e13675	There is no more word message for this. The debate is closed – and I ask you to calm down now! We now come to the vote on the request, the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on Amendment 723/A (E) concerning the failure of confidence towards the Federal Minister of State for Defence, a period of time until 19. In 1999 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the Member States relating to the approximation of Whoever is in favour of this proposal may give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e13711	We are now entering the 5th round of negotiations. Agenda item. This is the report of the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 975/A (E) on the work of the Historical Commission in 1560 of the Supplements. The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. Requested time limit: 3 minutes. - Please, Mrs Magistra.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e13736	Dear ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mr President. That the National Council of the Republic of Austria supports the work of the Historical Commission, does all that that body, which has been commissioned by the two Presidents of the National Council, by the Federal Chancellor of the Republic, by the Deputy Chancellor of the Republic, can best fulfil its task, is for me a matter which we should not have to discuss, that is something that is already justified in the matter itself. I do not wish to question the fact that, ladies and gentlemen, in recent weeks, there have been visible signs in Austrian politics that the work of recent Austrian history, in particular the facts relating to the work of the Historical Commission, is serious. Ladies and gentlemen! But what is today borne by all five parties in this motion for a resolution and in the request to the Federal Government, namely to support and not hinder the Commission of Historians in its work in the archives of the Federal Government and in the secondary departments, is just a mosaic in the preparation of the recent history of Austria, a mosaic stone that will be a aid in the specific case. Mr Smolle already mentioned him three o'clock, and it is also available in all the newspapers today: More than 30 000 files appeared from the former Hermann-Göring works in Linz, files that were claimed until recently, which did not exist. Yes, how can there be something if one has never seen if there is one, and if one has never given an order to research and experience? Ladies and gentlemen! This is only once again a proof of the need to have given this task, and how necessary any support is. But what the National Council has to do – and this is a task that I ask you to take seriously – is to create the legal basis for what it has to do in other countries, namely that archives and the work of historians are basically supported and promoted by legislative measures. There is therefore the demand for a Federal Archives Act, which provides that not only in individual cases a support is offered, because there is something like a common political will, but it clearly regulates it for all futures, as the conditions have to be. This is a task that the Historic Commission or the related discussion will give us implicitly along the way. Ladies and gentlemen! That's the last thing I wanted to say to you: In the supplement to the "Wiener Zeitung" I read: The National Council, with the decision of the Restitution Act, draws the conclusion of the debate on robbery. – If anyone really believes this here in space, he will be very fooled, ladies and gentlemen. The last few months and days have not been completed, but discussions have been opened, work processes and research activities have been initiated and started. Nothing goes by itself, but everything needs pressure and political will. That is what the National Council is supposed to say with this small resolution, which is essentially not very significant, but the legislative project is actually ahead of us, and it needs initiatives to do so. That is what we want to give to the Secretary of State: Mr State Secretary, the Federal Chancellor's Office is required to draw up proposals and submit them to the National Council. This cannot be done by the individual political groups. Parliament does not even have a legal service. You are called here and we therefore ask you to become active beyond this five-party request. No one will claim a mother or fatherhood if it is appropriate, but it has to be kept in mind that the opposition was and is still the driving force on this issue, and that is essential. You are the ones who have it with your resources, with your resources, with the entire brain in hand, which actually do, and that is really a serious thing. The over 30 000 Hermann-Göring-Werke-Akte-Akte show how necessary it is to ensure that not something disappears somewhere, is destroyed in the last second, or that you look into the box – the asset office in the state archive – before you say: We know everything, or we can't say anything because we've never asked for it, because there's no legal basis for it! Now everything has to be on the table! This time has really come!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e13785	There is now a speech by Mrs Dr Gabriela Moser. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e13806	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Significantly, today and now, just one day after 38 000 new files have been found, the decision is being made that research is being carried out to ensure that conscience is finally investigated. This is very significant. [[Abg. Koppler: You have not contributed to the discovery of these files! Zero!]] It is also significant that Austria is unfortunately also in the international trend in the reworking of its history. Switzerland is just ahead of us. Germany is about the same level as we are. Unfortunately, it took 50, 60 years in Central Europe until you asked for it until you got upset until you got found. This is a central European deficit. Austria is unfortunately in line with its neighbours in this area. It is also significant for me that a historian's commission is being used on its own to research, to create punctual information, to finally bring to light what parts of the population have known for a long time. The composition of this Commission has been eagerly discussed in the media. There is a small grand coalition result: There has been no call for capacity, only one international representative has been sent to this Commission, an international representative who has a very good reputation and is truly a capacity in his field. It would have been necessary to involve more international researchers to ensure a certain degree of objectivity. It is also a questionable thing for me to say that certain Austrian researchers are not called into this Commission, but very likely researchers who only had to deal with this period of history on the verge of history. One last moment is also very significant for me, namely the way in which Austria deals with the history of time. The history of time is more or less rooted in the Vienna Institute, which was founded only in 1966. In the era of Kreisky in the 1970s, there was a slight uproar which led to the task of working out the interwar period, the time of the First Republic, as it once created clarity and a so-called balanced representation. In the 1980 ’ s, the conveyors began drying out, and in the 1980 ’ s they were screwed back. Why? Because the interwar period was already illustrious, because it was now in the brilliant time of the Nazi rule, because at that time it would probably have been possible to search, find and process material, which in the 1980s would still have been very explosive. Only now – only on the outside pressure, on the pressure of the United States or because of the threats of complaint – has time history been put a little more at the heart of the political debate. Unfortunately, this is a bad cause. For me, the establishment of this historical commission here and today, which works punctually, which has a limited task of work, that is, only for four years with a budget of 25 million schilling, is actually the start of a general "reconversion" of time history. We need reflection about our closer past more urgently than a piece of bread, we need this reflection not only in the scientific media, but not only in the daily newspapers, but also in the schools. Please also take the setting-up of the Historical Commission to the point of assessing the overall history of time higher.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e13842	There is no more word message for this. The debate is closed. I would ask the House to take the seats, because we are now voting on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report 1560. Whoever is in favour of this resolution, I would ask for a sign of approval. This resolution has been adopted unanimously. (E 152.) 6. Point Report and request of the Constitutional Committee on the draft federal law, with which the contract staff law 1948, the Civil Service Service Law 1979, the Federal Ministry Act 1986, the Procurement Act 1989, the Federal Staff Representative Act, the Travel Fees Act 1955, the Pension Act 1965, the Federal Finance Act 1999 (5. BFG-Novelle 1999), the Civilian Health and Accident Insurance Act and the General Social Insurance Act (Contract Service Reform Act – VBRG) (1561 of the Supplements) 7. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 972/A by Dr Peter Kostelka, Dr Gottfried Feurstein and Comrades on a Federal Constitutional Act amending the Federal Constitutional Act (1562 of Supplements) 8. Point Report by the Financial Committee on Amendment 976/A by Dr Ewald Novotny, Dkfm. Dr. Günter Stummvoll and comrades concerning a federal law which amends the salary law 1956, the contract staff law 1948, the pension law 1965, the supplementary allowance law, the Landeslehrer-Denstrechtsgesetz 1984, the Richterdienstsgesetz and the Bundestheaterpensionsgesetz (Soldungs-Novelle 1999) (1564 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e13909	We now come to points 6 to 8 of the agenda. The debate on this is being held under one. Since there has been no oral reporting, we are immediately beginning the debate. The first speech was made by Dr Graf. Mr deputies, you asked for a voluntary speaking time of 6 minutes. I'll set the clock like that. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e13937	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! As I have heard, the Minister of Finance will also come to our attention in this debate. I think that's good and important. Mr Ruttenstorfer, President-in-Office of the Council. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent report. It doesn't matter. We are here in a matter that could also be described as an infinite story. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: A finite story, not an infinite one!]] I would like to remind you that many State Secretarys have already been broken on this subject, and I would like to highlight this somewhat in the framework of the Federal Employment Act. This was the start of State Secretary Kostelka – today Klubobmann – who has always fully announced that he would like to bring about a decisive reform in the state service. This has continued to be the very successful State Secretary One, who is now the Federal Minister of Science after he has already led another Federal Ministry. He has also promoted the Federal Employment Act, which here in the House and in the committees has repeatedly promised to establish a modern service law and a federal employment law. After that, there was the next successful State Secretary, the State Secretary Schlögl, today Federal Minister for the Interior. He too has announced this. I would like to quote something about this because it is a matter of the recent past. ==References== In July 1995 he announced that he had recently been praised in the newspaper: By 1997 at the latest, there will be a whole new federal service right, which, first of all, completely reforms the references and, secondly, pushes back Pragmatization and unannounceability to the absolutely necessary degree! In addition, he wanted to bring about equality between workers and employees in the Federal Service, both in the contract service sector and in the civil service sector. The headlines are Legion. However, he did not succeed completely, he then ascended to higher services. He did this not only once, but, for example, on 13 March, he did so. To be made public in the media in June 1995: Pragmatization is not a topic for me! But Fix is that I want to create a new Federal Employment Act, which is to be adopted during this period! We are now at the end of this period. There is no such federal employment law, and there has been what State Secretary Schlögl himself announced by saying: It may be that I fall on my nose with this! So he said back then: It may be that I fall on my nose! But he didn't fall on his nose. This has been taken over by another one, namely State Secretary Ruttenstorfer. He has not only fallen on the nose with this project, but has made a belly stain as you can say it so beautifully. In fact, it is all that can only be imagined. [[Federal Minister Edlinger takes place at the government bank.]] Salute God, Minister! [[Federal Minister Edlinger: Nice evening!]] It's good that someone's here now, too. Now we're going into matter. I would just like to say: The State Secretary, who has so far been broken on this issue, has ultimately made every career. Minister, you need to be careful of your armchair! As a result, perhaps another punishment will be imposed. [[Federal Minister Edlinger: I'm not sick!]] Mr Ruttenstorfer, Secretary of State, has now also fallen to the nose, but perhaps this will also raise career leaders and soon become finance ministers. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] So you need to take care of your position. He has acted as his predecessors and will probably also make a career. It's a great future ahead of him. This is the case in Austria, if one is particularly unsuccessful, even when it comes to reforming the public service. The Federal Employment Act has not been implemented. The fact is that we have now achieved the following: Instead of a modern, performance-oriented salary scheme designed according to requirements, we now have four salary schemes, namely two officials' holding schemes, one old and one new, as well as two contract staff holding schemes, also an old and a new one. The new one, however, contains the option that the contract staff may also change according to the old scheme and the officials. However, I consider that to be a wish list to the Christian child. I do not believe, as the government clearly believes, that officials or contract staff in the same active wage life will simply give up the preference of improving officials or the contract staff age in the pension, or perhaps give up making a better job through the protection of termination. Especially at a time when safety is increasingly being sought at work, this should indeed be a desire for the Christian child. This is in line with today's debate shortly before Christmas. There are some very worrying things that are being dealt with today. This includes the pension fund, the compulsory pension fund in the form of an occupational pension fund for which no right of election is provided; the provisions are intended to be taken into account in relation to contribution benefits and pension benefits in a gender-neutral way. I think that's unconstitutional. Firstly, it is still not guaranteed that men will live as long as women – I say so. Therefore, a pension fund – which has been decided by the government and is legally anchored – must operate in accordance with the legal provisions, invest its money in accordance with the subject matter of insurance and also pay it back. Then the difference between the life span of women and men can be offset either by lower male contributions or by lower pension payments to women. I think this is unconstitutional. If what you intend to decide today – at least in your committee statement it has been decided so – then it will certainly be brought to the end of the Constitutional Court of Justice unless you seek once again to regulate this provision for officials and for contract staff in the constitutional order. One last thing: The new contract staff have also been transferred to the civil servants' pension insurance institution for one reason only: A black-dominated pension insurance institution stood in front of the bankruptcy or before the loss of its contributors. In order to restore peace in the coalitionary conflict, one has found a spoon of shoes when, in the future, one transfers the new contract staff to the staff's pension system in order to receive posts so that social security, which have become unnecessary or become unnecessary, can be maintained only in order to maintain the spheres of influence. I think that's a signal in the wrong direction. Instead of doing so, we must put together social security schemes. If the favourable opportunity is that this can be done, then you should do the same and not give the signal in the wrong direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e14014	Mrs. Dr. Mertel came to speak. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e14035	Mr President. Minister! High house! In recent times, there have been voices that nothing is going on in the coalition and that we have no reform. In reality, we have achieved a great second step in the field of public servants. Although Mr Graf believes that the Secretary of State would have caused all possible physical injuries – from nose to abdominal injury – I see it differently. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Please, that's what State Secretary Schlögl himself said! He said he could fall on the nose! I just quoted!]] I believe that the contract staff reform law is a real and great step towards a modern and efficient public administration. If you depend on the term "Federal Employment Act", I tell you that this law, in my opinion, is also taking a huge step in this direction. It is a step towards a modern service right, in which now also contract staff... Yes, okay. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: "Can be that I fall on my nose with this," he said!]] That's my speaking time, let me finally talk! It is a step towards a modern service law, which now also includes the contractors of the general administration and the craftsmanship. But this is also a departure from a no longer contemporary paying philosophy. High demands are placed on the public service, and in dealing with its many tasks it needs qualified but also motivated staff, motivated employees and employees. The entire reform of contract staff rights is to be seen in the context of the salary reform completed four years ago, which was a great success. In some areas, up to 90 percent of staff have experienced the option in this remuneration reform. In this remuneration reform, the old remuneration careers for officials were replaced by a function-related and responsibility-related remuneration. The same principle is now being implemented in the reform of contract staff law, with the aim of equal pay for equal work for all federal employees. That sounds simple, but legal and technical, the implementation of this principle is anything but simple. Other links and comparative parameters had to be found for contract staff who did not know classes of service or transport. There was a need for uniform work evidence and job evaluation for the federal staff, but also for three factors to be taken into account. These factors include job evaluation, net payment and life-earning. Only on the basis of these three factors can officials and contract staff be compared in terms of their careers at all and subsequently pay them equal. The principle To implement equal pay and work, it was therefore necessary to create a legal basis for service and remuneration. The aim was to keep the newly created evaluation groups as small and as clear as possible. The system of allowances is to ensure that the performance requirements of a workplace are afforded financially immediately and immediately and not only through the long journey of transport. This has failed in a functional allowance and in individual performance premiums as additional elements of remuneration. The individual award of benefits is, of course, a sensitive area. Therefore, the award criteria should be made particularly transparent and as comprehensible as possible. The staff representative also has a right of participation. The most important renewal of this reform is the redistribution of life's incomes. As I see it, this is especially beneficial for women, because 63 percent of contract staff are women. For younger contract staff, therefore, higher initial salaries are to be combined with a flatter wage curve. The classification and remuneration by function is foreseen and not after training, taking into account the pre-practice – including those in the economy – into account. This means higher income opportunities for younger workers in an earlier career. The redefinition of the life-earning curve leads to the fact that contract staff, with their entry salaries, are generally higher than those of officials and that the officials only gradually overtake contract staff in the middle of the career. The new merit curves focus on the distribution before the 40. Year of life and are always above the old contract staff holding curve. There are, therefore, no losers among at least 36 000 contract staff. The Public Service Union, with which this reform has been agreed, says salopp, but very well-appointed: More money for mothers and fathers instead of grandmothers and grandparents! To increase income in this particular phase is a very useful measure – I would like to stress this as a family politician – because at this stage, the formation of the house and the births of children are taking place. There is often no employment income for a certain period of time, or part-time work is done. This possibility – the right to part-time work – is also enshrined in this reform in analogy with the Civil Service Service Law. A word also on the design of the life merit curve: The level of pensions, together with the active references, is of decisive importance – and this is increasingly true of how the demographics assure us. It is therefore particularly gratifying to have agreed in the negotiations on the creation of an internal pension scheme, i.e. an internal pension fund. The details have not yet been fully elaborated, but it is still clear that contributions to the pension fund should be made through contributions from the service providers and employees to the same amount of 1.5 percent of the monthly remuneration. After an average career of 40 years, an additional pension of about 10 percent of the final amount is expected to come out. From the point of view of women's policy, it is particularly important to welcome the project to shape the right to benefit in a gender-neutral way. It is intended to explicitly prevent women from having to expect lower benefits from pension insurance due to their higher life expectancy through the capital coverage process – that has already been done by Mr Graf. A large community of risks – as in the case of the planned occupational pension fund – can deal with such a compensation financially. Now also a word on salary novelle and on salary negotiations: By increasing salaries, allowances and additional fees by 2.5 percent, the simultaneous reduction of the former pension security contribution by 0.2 percent, and the increase in civil servants' pensions by 1.5 percent, public servants are taking appropriate part in the current economic upturn. This increase also covers the national service. The changes in remuneration law require appropriate service adjustments. Provisions have therefore been made in procedural matters, in the contract of service, in the case of temporary service contracts and in this context in connection with chain contract law. Vocational training and training is also given particular attention. For the longest time one has stayed in the topic "Reposition, Use Change and Termination Protection". It remains true to the already strict termination protection, and in addition, the law now enshrines redundancies and service allocation. Where functional allowances are due, job changes can have positive or negative effects in the future. Therefore, the newly created instrument of the so-called absorbable supplement supplement is introduced. This allowance ensures that a job change does not result in an indebted income loss. Recently, in connection with the two points where contract staff were worse off – poorer pay and no full career opportunities – fierce debates have been held, with regard to job protection and job security as well as a career that leads up to the top. The aim of the SPÖ Group was to achieve the upgrading of the contract staff's service relationship to a full alternative to the pragmatic service relationship and not to allow the continuation of two classes of public servants. This means that we also wanted to open the way to top positions for contract staff. The decision on Pragmatization is to be left to the contract staff, but in case of a Pragmatization in case of non-application of the § 136a pensionable contract staff. Ladies and gentlemen! This reform is not cheap. At least 900 million Schilling will incur additional costs in its final expansion stage. The fact that it has been achieved despite this considerable cost shows at least how important this further step towards a modern and performance-oriented public service is.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e14084	Mr Dr Kier came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e14106	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I can say very briefly, as the essential things have already been said. What really concerns us is that the original approach to creating a harmonised labour law for public servants has not really been successful, because this novelle, instead of achieving harmonisation, forms other categories. The most unpleasant part of this category is the fact that the new contract staff are being moved into the health and accident insurance system. I understand. If you have an attractive right of contract staff and you have to assume that a greater number of public servants will take out their career in accordance with the new rules of contract staff rights, it is to be feared that the number of insured persons in civil and health insurance will become too small. This is a matter on which we must talk, but to do so, is, I believe, not exactly what we are talking about under harmonisation. In principle, we welcome the fact that management functions are defined in a suitable form on time, and that, under the new regulation, management functions can also be achieved by contract staff. But you've been pushing around the real core debate, namely, finally deciding how to put up with professional officials at the end of the 20th century. ==References====External links== You didn't deliver this performance. They are so to speak stuck in the fork: Although they change something in the contract law, they do not achieve harmonisation, because there is a need for a defined civil service. It's just the question: ==References====External links== ==References====External links== - Century? And: What protection of termination must I have? I need a job protection, one that goes beyond normal labour law, but it must be that of the 19th century. It was developed in the 20th century, or would there not be better possibilities? The termination protection is a twin brother to function and not so much to the status. I therefore believe that if you have created management functions on time, you must also break your head over how you deal with the employees if they are not re-ordered after the end of time. For one thing must not happen: That you will find partial solutions, which will then lead to an unpleasant rejection in a two-class public service company. We will not be able to agree to these proposals because they do not meet our harmonisation requirements. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e14146	Mr Delegate spoke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Khol. You wanted a speech time of 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e14167	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We from the People's Party see in the public service the backbone of the rule of law. We want the President-in-Office to continue guarding the public service, ensuring the freedom of political pressure and preventing the supply of political arbitrariness. That means: For us, the public service in its independence is very important, and we are a professional official! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, we want the same career opportunities in the public service... [[Federal Minister Edlinger speaks with the Abg. Arbitrator.]] Could you tell me the joke, too, Mr. Colleague? Then I laugh with you. [[Abg. Arbitrator: Please apologize!]] - Please. [[Abg. Arbitrator: But that was not a joke now, but...!]] I would ask you not to log this remark. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Of me!]] As a supporter of professional civil service, we wanted to ensure in this reform that the rule of law was respected by professional officials, that Pragmatization was preserved for senior public servants and the appointment rights of the President of the Federal Republic of Germany. We succeeded. We have also achieved another goal: equal opportunities for all public servants. So that means: It was necessary to end discrimination between contract staff of the remuneration group (a) and (b) and officials appointed by public law (A) and (B). That's what we've done, that's what we've achieved. We have created a new career, a new career through a flexible scheme, which will usually lead to public officials with higher initial salaries, then, if they have the qualifications for management functions, they will be appointed to these management functions and will receive the special legal protection of Pragmatization, but at the same time remain in the old salary scheme and old pension law. I think this is a good regulation. What I am pleased about is that, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, we have secured the Federal Health Insurance Agency in its holdings. We've done this with the railways. We're doing this in the custody insurance. These are small and fine insurances that are cost-effective. Official insurance, for example, has a holding, which is relatively significant, but is highly appreciated by its insured persons. Then why should we end this? So we secured the insurance company in its inventory. We have achieved the objectives, Minister. It was a hard negotiation, but I am glad that we in Parliament have come to bring the child back to the world. I remember that the Federal Chancellor, when we failed in the Federal Government during the official negotiations, was very angry when he heard that I had tabled this whole proposal as an initiative. In the press conference, he called it a sham activity. I am glad that there is such an activity as this one, as it is today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e14240	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Stoisits. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e14262	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We Greens want the competences and the office of the President of the Federal Republic to be discussed. I'd like that to have been held here. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We Greens want the observance of the rule of law not to depend on whether the President of the Federal Government is watching how many pragmatized officials there are doing what pragmatized officials do. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We Greens confess to Pragmatization. We Greens do not want the complete abolition of Pragmatization. But we Greens want – and that is why I am concerned, and that is why it is not so easy to agree to these legislative proposals today – that at last an overall discussion, a general discussion on these essential issues, which Dr Kier has already mentioned, will be held. I am not pleased to see that this major innovation has actually addressed essential points which are important, such as that there are higher and therefore more attractive references for young staff, that top positions are also open to contract staff. There is another motion for a resolution on the re-codification of the law, which I would also like to give my assent. I have already said in the Committee that in this Republic, I think there are only 27 people who are still looking at the entire right of service of officials and contract staff, the public servants, and even know what the legal provisions are in detail. I do not think that is a rule of law, and therefore I would like to agree with this motion for a resolution. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! But what we do not want is a two-class society, Dr. Khol, as you preach. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: We're not either!]] How did you say that? - We're on the job office!, you said. Because that's the message you convey here, and that's the compromise you've octroyed here, so it's a majority at all. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen: If it is true that what Mrs Dr Mertel has referred to here is that it is not a continuation of the two-class system, as you have mentioned earlier, if this is guaranteed by the reform work, if all possibilities for officials to be open are also open to contractors, then I wonder what this regulation has made as it is. If there are no financial or otherwise any differences, then there can only be an ideological background, namely standing up to professional officials. This must be clearly stated here. It is not the financial framework. That is what you said, Mr Dr. Khol, and this reform costs Austrian taxpayers, but the services provided by public administration are also worth a bit of money. I will now come back to the beginning of my speech and I would like to stress: That is why it is so essential – and that is my criticism of the novelle of remuneration – to set accents also in the discussion. I am pleased that there has been a salary conclusion at this level, because there have been very poor years for officials and contract staff. But I consider this kind of procedure – and this is now a criticism of all those who have negotiated it, and I am particularly addressing those who do not want the two-class system, those who are working for the underprivileged and for the lower levels of income – not for the optimal that it will then come to conclusions that only contain a percentage increase and where there are no base amounts for those who have little. Ladies and gentlemen! I am in favour of this mixing system, and I also made my arguments last year – perhaps you remember – why I did not think these solutions were optimal, but I suspect, ladies and gentlemen, that you lack the imagination. Finally, a word about homogeneity. In this respect, a two-thirds majority is required, as is the case with a change in the federal constitution. On the other hand, I have nothing in principle, but one can see it again, ladies and gentlemen, how to turn as a politician and wind and always sell everything as it fit. I see this in the context of the great state reform, something that we not only call for greens, but many other vehement. There's a lot of important points here. Now one goes here and breaks, because it is opportunistic in this context, a part of the state reform – that is not a content discussion I am discussing – and other things are not even discussed. I hear the call, yes, the cry to national courts for a long time, but that doesn't interest anyone. There is no pressure, and that means that on the eve of the election year, too many votes cannot be won either. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is not the level of graduation at the novelle of remuneration that it is not the content of what we decide, but the compromise you have concluded that prompts me to recommend to my colleagues that these laws not be approved.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e14350	Mr Löschnak. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. 5 minutes of voluntarily imposed time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e14372	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Allow me to make a few comments on the Federal Constitutional Law Novelle, which is a part of this package. First of all, the content: With this Federal Constitutional Law Novelle some substantial changes are made. It has already been mentioned: In Article 21, the prohibition of homogeneity does not apply. In the future, therefore, the Federal Government and the Länder will be able to free up the civil servants' and contract service rights, even if they will have a certain obligation to provide mutual information in the future. - That's one. The second point: The municipal guards will be authorized to participate in the execution of the administrative penalty law to the same extent as all other security bodies, and the federal and national legislation will be empowered to transfer to municipal guards those activities which they may grant to the executive. The third point is a change to Article 60 in line with the already decided amendment to the Federal President's Election Act, which means that no longer can be exchanged between the first and second elections of the candidate. The fourth key point is that editorial errors have been corrected in recent years. As far as the content. Part Two: A brief assessment of these things. As far as the first point is concerned, I may be pre-taxed, but if I remember correctly, the commitment of the countries to the principles of the federal government in the civil servants' and contract service law was a requirement some years ago, because otherwise the development would have been overly apart. I therefore do not fully understand why this homogeneity command is now being withdrawn. It was a matter of concern years ago, and I am not aware of any circumstance that would have caused it to cease now. But please, you should not overestimate that, because reality has completely passed by these things, and that will probably be the case in the future. I believe that the granting of certain powers for the municipal guard bodies is important to me, because there are a few thousand employees in the executive, who are very well-trained and can therefore be transferred to them. Some years ago, the first step was taken with a novel to the Federal Constitutional Act. I see this as a continuation of this development, and this, Mr Feurstein, is not only something that Vorarlberg is particularly pleased with, because, at least on this point, one is progressive – I am fully attesting to you – but that will also be of interest to other countries where there are precisely these parish guards. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: We fought for it!]] The third point I would like to make is the elimination of the editorial error of recent years. These editorial changes and the entire legalisation of this Federal Constitutional Law Novelle provided an incentive for future legislative initiatives. One should not only say that one wants to change the legal culture that has been changed, but one should actually do it. This amendment to the Federal Constitutional Act is a good example for me, and that is why we can give our full support to the whole project. My group will do this.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e14407	The next speaker is Mr Lammer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e14429	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! In view of Mrs Mertel's accusation that nothing went further in the coalition, that a reasonable work had come on the table again, I would like to describe the history of this law. There was a government template from the SPÖ and a government template from the ÖVP, one was disunited, and one then doubled a work from these two templates. I therefore dare to doubt that this is really a very good contract service. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mrs. Dr. Mertel! Please remember that, when you created the right to pay, you mentioned all the modern components of a service right, but they were not incorporated into the law. It's called: It's supposed to be powerful! In reality, it was tied in line. Under these conditions, there has also been a contract service, and my colleague Dr. Martin Graf has already mentioned this in detail. However, I would also like to say a few sentences on the increase in salaries and allowances. This increase of 2.5 per cent is to be rejected by us for two reasons which I would like to point out here. I would like to speak here from the point of view of an executive official, because I can do the easiest and understand exactly how this works. On the one hand, during the last three years, the executive officials have been completely starved at the salary negotiations. There was nothing at all – except a one-time payment – and in 1997 there were only 466 S. Secondly, there will be another staff election in 1999, so the officials had to be given a number of things again at 2.5 percent. But, ladies and gentlemen, taking into account the negotiations with the metallurgists and comparing the situation would be said as an official: The officials do not at all need a salary increase, but only an adjustment to the wages of the metallers. With a salary of 20 000 s, this is nice to compare, starting with 1994. I would like to explain this to you at least once. In 1994, the officials received 2.55 percent, the Metallians 3.5 percent and a one-time payment of 2,000 S. In 1995, the officials received 2.87%, the Metaller 3.5 percent and a one-time payment of 2,500 p.m. In 1996, there was a zero wage round with a one-time payment of 2 700 s for officials, the metallers received 2 percent. In 1997, officials had 0 per cent and a single payment of 3,600 s, with metallurgicals 2.1 per cent. In 1998 the officials received 466 S, the Metaller 2.9 percent and a one-time payment of 2 500 S. In 1999, there is 2.5 percent for officials, 2.9% for metallurgists and 2 500 p.m. for a one-time payment. On the basis of these examples, it can already be seen that an official would have to receive about 7 per cent more per month when comparing these payroll accounts in order to be able to match a metaller. This monthly contribution would be 1 520 S alone. This is the comparison alone, without the increases being taken into account. This was always due to the excellent economic situation in Austria. This has always been stressed by the Minister of Finance. Mr Finanzminister! They said that the introduction of the euro enabled convergence criteria to be met. However, they have also gained twenty billion schilling from the last savings and load packages. On the basis of this, there can be no gap in the budget if, for the approximately 35 000 executive officials, you also carry out a remuneration corresponding to their profession and duties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e14500	Mr Feurstein. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e14521	Ladies and gentlemen! It was indeed a long way until we really brought the draft laws that we now essentially decide, namely the novelle to the Federal Constitutional Law and the Contractual Service Act, to that extent. But if you, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, compare the EIA's proposal with what is contained in the Committee's report, you will find exactly what is in the EIA's proposal with quite a few minor deviations. I do not want to say that we have now fully enforced ourselves, but we have shown the right way, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You pulled the SPÖ over the table!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This law is a fundamental reorientation. I admit that this applies only to one area, namely only to the field of active staff. For the active staff, the amount of living is redesigned. You get significantly more at the beginning, at the end there is a flattening of the curve. Not solved – that is perhaps a problem – is the question of supplementary pensions. We are essentially introducing the ASVG system for the Federal Services, but the question of pension funds, everything to be done here, is not yet discussed, Mrs Mertel, in my opinion. In this regard, I do not think that the comments contained in the explanatory remarks are sufficient, because at 0.75% one cannot make a big leap. You know that, too. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] - I'm just saying that. I would just like to point out that we still have something to do, like the whole question of pension provision by pension funds. I am very glad that the Secretary of State in the Committee has clearly stated that he wants the pension fund model to be implemented. – That was a very important definition. Next item, ladies and gentlemen: I am of course pleased, Mr Löschnak, that you are now suddenly very happy with the change in the homogeneity bid. This is a demand that we do not have for a year, but for decades – I would like to stress this: for decades! – have raised again and again. The country of Vorarlberg has been on foot for several months. It also wants to create a modern national service law. It's been fixed and finished for months. We have not been able to decide because it is from your side, I must say, Mr Löschnak, that the amendment of this constitutional provision has been repeatedly blocked, which today is to be approved by God, in a form with which we are more than satisfied. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Lösnak) Everyone hears what he wants!]] But I also say quite openly: The national staff in Vorarlberg country now have to wait a year for the new modern law to enter into force, because the date 1. January 1999 is no longer to be held. Ladies and gentlemen! I also very much stress the solution for the municipal security guard. You know, Mr Lösnak, that at the time you were ministers, the Vorarlbergers came to you and asked: If the municipal security guard gives the same competences, give you the same tasks as the Gendarmerie! – Now we have the opportunity to do so. I only hope that what you have said will also be done by the current Minister for the Interior when it comes to adapting the legislation on materials to what we all want. So there is also an important, immense progress through debureaucratisation, a better exploitation of existing resources and, of course, the fact that the people who are very successful in the municipal security guard are no longer discriminated against. This is not a state reform yet. I hope – and I very much hope – that you will also go with us in the other areas of the state reform, for which we are very struggling – that the ÖVP is a banner carrier, a real banner carrier to implement and implement the state reform, gradually and that other important points of this state reform will be decided upon. It should be a change in the federal constitution towards greater autonomy for the countries, so that a realization of federalism in the sense of subsidiarity – a genuine subsidiarity! – is done. The small Community should be able to carry out its tasks; it should not simply be entrusted with tasks. It should be able to carry out its tasks, and we should soon make progress, as we have now achieved in this area.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e14581	Mrs Dr Gabriela Moser spoke. - She's not in the hall. This debate does not take place. I now call Mr Pendl. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e14606	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to refer to a few comments from my previous speakers at this point. Mr. Dr. Graf! With regard to Christkind and Wishlist, I would just like to give you two examples. The AMS had an option right. Most of the people here in the hall know that most of them have volunteered because of this right of option because the collective agreement was a good one for the new AMS. There was a voluntary right in the remuneration reform law for officials. Ladies and gentlemen! The officials volunteered. So there are two classic cases in very different areas where this option right has worked. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: With very different conditions!]] We have, Mr Dr. Graf, after Vorarlberg's municipal civil servant law was abolished at that time by the Constitutional Court because there was equality between workers and employees, precisely for these reasons, the rule of law. If you know that the work content is based on whether someone is an employee or a worker, and not because we simply decide something somewhere, we have known how difficult this matter is to regulate. On the speeches of the Liberal Forum, but also the Greens, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say the following: We had no real right, or until the hour, because the contract staff law 1948 is a preliminary right. 36 000 colleagues will be "thankful" when they hear that some parties voted against this, that they have finally – since 1948! – can come to a modern, new and just right. Based on the comments made that these were not two government proposals: We all know that anyway. There were two proposals for initiative, but you should leave the church in the village if I can formulate it in this way. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Around 90.95 percent of the technical content was negotiated at the social partners level. Considering that there are some 36 000 persons involved in the administration of the Federal Service in the field of contract staff, it is understood that the discussion, which was media-accompanied, has inflamed with the question of management functions in the central lines. The question was then resolved on the way to negotiation in the coalition – all of us stand for this compromise. I believe that if a contract officer has the opportunity to become section leader, he also has the right to request Pragmatization. I do not need to repeat this; it has already been mentioned by Mr Klubobmann Khol that this contractor remains in the old system both as a pensioner and as a salary worker. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] Another area: The individual head of the department must define in advance which positions are intended for pragmatic positions in the future, and then, when entrusted with them, colleagues can apply for the Pragmaticum. Ladies and gentlemen! However, I believe that it is most important that it is possible for the first time to allow contract staff members to rise into all the functions of our Republic. I would also like to point out that it is also a matter of justice if two colleagues do the same work, sit at the desk, but are paid considerably differently. Ladies here in the house! The vast majority of these 36 000 contract staff are colleagues. I think it is important to note in a double sense that this is more than just. It is true that it is necessary to recast this contract law. This also seems necessary to us. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We Socialists are very pleased to agree to these legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e14659	The motion for a resolution which has just been read is properly tabled, duly supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Dr. Stummvoll. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for his excellent report. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e14684	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! At the end of this very detailed debate, I would like to draw up very few points in connection with the reform of the law of the service, which I believe to be particularly important for the future. First of all, I think we can see that we are living today in a world of incredible changes. These changes, of course, go to the public. Service not over – no question at all. It is certainly no coincidence that, for example, in the management literature, there are already entire libraries full of books on the topic "Management of Change" – that is, how I handle changes. I mean, if we decide today a law that can be said: We go on one step again, we shape something for the future!, then this happens from the realization of the following fundamental principle, which each company must observe: One can only make reforms with those concerned and not with those concerned, not with the minds of those concerned. – The will of change cannot be ordered, it must be worked out together and experienced together, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. This is also an important principle for the future of our public service relations. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, we must also take into account the entire incredible range of public services in all these changes. This extends from the Cobra Special Unit to the Intensive Nurse, from the teacher in the special school to the university professor or high judge. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's the problem!]] This, of course, requires a very differentiated policy. I know – it is also similar in the economy; there are very differentiated interests! – how difficult it is to make such a future and to make this reform policy so that they can contribute to it. I have to say: High regard for the two main negotiators State Secretary Ruttenstorfer and Minister Willi Molterer. They have based themselves on these principles and have therefore presented us today with a successful decision-making work. Third point: As a representative of the economy, I would like to stress one thing very clearly: For us in the economy, the quality of public administration is increasingly a competitive factor for Austria's economic location. There are important areas which are of great importance to Austria's economic location. I only mention the areas of infrastructure, energy supply, training and how long administrative authorisation procedures take. We therefore acknowledge in the economy that we need to work in this area with modern management methods and reforms which are well-founded by law. Ladies and gentlemen! One last word: I think we will also take an important step in that direction with this legislative work, which is now under the slogan "New Public Management". Allow me to take one point: "New Public Management" is also the motivation of employees. I mean, we have a group in front of us, which is very often covered by the term "bureaucracy" and similar keywords. Just one example: We as the Chamber of Commerce have been running the "Office Manager of the Year" action for two years with a large economic newspaper – consciously as a motivation factor. That's what it's about asking the disciplines to go to the curtain. And there are a lot of skilled young and older employees in the public service who deserve the name "Amtsmanager". We should ask these in front of the curtain. This should be recognized, because it is also the quality of our economic location.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e14731	Mr Fink has also been mentioned on the floor. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e14753	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Let me make a few remarks on the novelle of remuneration. The novelle of remuneration will implement the results agreed between the local authorities and the public service union. ==References== In January 1999, salaries and allowances of officials and contract staff will be increased by 2.5 percent. Today's remark regarding comparison with the metallurgists is, I believe, all right, since the metallurgists have received 2.9 percent and the officials have had really poor years lately. The fact is that, unfortunately, there are a lot of people in this area who have low salaries. That's why it would have been better for me if you had been working with base amounts. However, there has been almost no increase in officials and contract staff for a number of years. In the last three years, only one-off payments or fixed payments have been agreed. The fact is that the salaries of C, D and E employees are higher than, respectively, the same as in the private sector. It is the opposite of the A- and B-services. These salaries are lower than in the private sector. It was therefore necessary to align the salaries with those of the private sector. A percentage increase was proposed by the trade unions and agreed with the Federal Government. The cost of these novels is 3.8 billion schilling. I believe that this conclusion is not over-covered and budgetaryly sound. It is a conclusion that was certainly necessary in the case of government servants after three years of thirst. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, on behalf of my group, I would like to thank the officials and contract staff for their excellent work, whether they are working in the municipality, at national level, in the district headquarters or in a central administration. The fact that we agree with this novelle of remuneration is a matter of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e14796	No one is reporting on this. That concludes the debate. There is no final word on the part of reporting. We are immediately entering the voting procedure, and I would ask you to take the places to that end. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we are voting on the draft reform of the contract, including the title and receipt in 1561 of the supplements. Mr Hiezu has asked Dr Kier for a separate vote. I shall therefore first vote on the parts affected by the request for separate vote and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule I(68) and (74) of the Committee's report. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. In the case of your consent, I would also ask for an appropriate sign here. – This too is the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. If you want to give the bill at third reading, I would also ask for a sign to be given. – This is also done by the majority. The draft law was therefore adopted at third reading. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Dr Kostelka, Dr. Khol and others on the revision of the Law on Contracting Servants 1948. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. (E 153.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law, the title and the receipt in 1562 of the supplements. Since this draft law is a Federal Constitutional Act, I shall first put it in accordance with § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the existence of the constitutional quorum. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to agree to this draft law to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. I would like to point out that the two-thirds majority required by the constitution are present. We shall now proceed to the third reading. If you would also like to give the draft law a third reading, I would also ask for an appropriate sign. – This is also done by the majority. Once again, I note the constitutionally required two-thirds majority. I shall now vote on the draft salary novels in 1999 together with the title and receipt in 1564 of the supplements. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to give the draft law the same sign at third reading. – This is also the majority. I notice: The draft law was adopted at third reading. 9. Point Report by the Financial Committee on Amendment 895/A (E) by Dr Martin Graf and Comrades on § 42a Compensation Act ČSSR (1565 of the Supplements) 10. Point Report of the Financial Committee on Request 896/A (E) by Dr Martin Graf and Comrades on compensation law ČSSR (1566 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e14935	I now call on points 9 and 10 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Graf was the first speaker to speak. 7 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e14963	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! We now have two proposals to deal with once again the Sudeten German question. Let me take this opportunity to give some thought to this in the year 1998, the "Year of Human Rights", as it really saddens me personally, but also our group, that we are gradually moving away from an already existing consensus on the subject of the treatment of the Sudeten German concerns and even the people of Germany, here in this House – which is clearly visible – for various reasons. I think that this trend is very clear and clear. It has been a broad and unanimous consensus up to the 1990s that the concerns of the Sudeten Germans and also the people of the Germans almost always found a unilateral decision-making process. I would just like to remind you that in 1990 a motion for a resolution by Mr Preiß, Dr. Gaigg and Dr. Ofner, the then displaced speakers of the three major parties, were taken unanimously – even with the votes of the Greens; the Liberals were not yet represented in this House at the time – that finally – really at last! – a foundation for the preservation of a cultural centre, a "house of home" should be established with the involvement of the disfellowshipping organisations and the relevant bodies in Austria. Although this motion for a resolution was adopted unanimously and unanimously, it found the fate of many motions for resolutions. It has not been implemented due to the expiry of the legislative period and essentially never has it been implemented. But at that time the formation of will was clear and clear! In these questions, of course, one wanted to send a signal, a sign that one wanted to be a cultural centre, a "house of the home" in the form of a traditional house, to establish and maintain a historical house, and that Austrians, in particular, were concerned about the issue of displaced persons. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This consensus – which is clearly recognizable for me, for my group, but also for many people affected – is now increasingly crumbling. Mr Höchtl! We agree on the matter, unfortunately not so much in the decision-making of God, but we should find this consensus again! I believe that the Socialist Group in this House is deeply indebted to this dispersal. I would like to urge the Social Democrats, since they have always had a deep and close historical connection with the Sudeten Germans, and I know that there are really interested people among them, even though they like to chat with each other now and pretend they did not want to do anything – to finally rethink their Sudetendeutsche- und Vertriebenfreundlichkeit, which they have always shown in this House in the past. As a date on which the Social Democrats could perhaps work, if the 1998 human rights year were not enough for them, perhaps the 18th would be the first time. In September 1999, the Social Democrats of Germany and Austria celebrated a celebration in Brno on the occasion of the 100th anniversary. Yearly meetings of the Brunner General Party will take place. This was an important meeting for the entire social democracy in Central Europe and for the German-speaking region, but also for the Czechs, Slovaks, Slovenians and members of the other language cultures in the then Austrian Hungary, at which epochic decisions were taken. The Social Democrats will also take part in this 100-year celebration and commemorate this part-session. Take If you travel to Brno, take this issue seriously and remember to assume your responsibility for the Sudeten Germans as social democrats! I strongly urge this not only on behalf of the Austrians, but above all on behalf of the displaced, and I hope that you will convert in this sense and, together with us in this House, will do more for the displaced. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I know that today's debate will attempt to deal with the requests of the liberals in a political way. It should already have the money that it could not be decided more than was available for distribution here. – I say to you from this speaker’s mouth: That's not the way you see it! It's a signal! In addition, I tell you clearly: We have finally decided by unanimous decision in this House on the compensation law and on the valorization or increase in value only a 34 per cent increase; from which budget pot et cetera the money comes or from which it is taken to compensate for this value, we have not decided to do so. This is not in any single section that we decided at the time – and I have looked at it very closely! We have not decided on any explanatory comments. Moreover, in the previous debate, we have just heard from Mr Feurstein that explanatory remarks have no legislative power and no normative character, and are usually not only negotiable, but also negotiable, or, if it has to be, to be neglected. That must also be true on this issue, I say that with certainty. We have decided only the legal provisions. If you now believe that you have an increase in value at the expense of those who are injured, those who, for whatever reason, have not come into existence, be it because they have failed a period of time, whether it be because they have been in need of proof, I find it almost perfect. What do you want, Mr Minister, to tell an old woman – and there are many of them – who comes to you and says: I have received a notice that I have sought too late a week and therefore do not come to the benefit of compensation in accordance with the compensation law!Unknown term type: "%s".? Would you like to say to this old lady that she shouldn't get anything out of her money anyway? That can't be fair! As legislators, we cannot, in the end, intend to compensate a different part of the displaced and the injured at the expense of a part. As much as we are in favour of an actual increase in value – as we have also decided – and 34 percent by far do not even mean a loss of value, it should be much higher – we do not think it can be so that at the expense of a few others, we compensate a few others. This cannot and will never be the tenor of our opinion, and against it we will always defend ourselves! Minister! In this context, I would like to say the following: A foundation should be established. This has already been decided in a resolution in this House in 1990, a foundation for the preservation of the House of Homeland. They are now required as Minister of Finance to become active in this regard. There are also other pots in which money is not paid, millions, hundreds of millions of schilling, which are finally to benefit the displaced, the displaced, and are not to be used in the Republic's sack to stop any budget holes. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Minister! This is where all our responsibility is asked! 1998 is the "Year of Human Rights", 1999 perhaps the 100. Return of the "Gesamtdeutsche Social-Democratische Partytage". Take the opportunity to act in Brno! - No, that was 18th. September 1899, and next year [[Interference of Federal Minister Edlinger.]] They all drive there and probably give sudetenGerman slogans of themselves. But it is no longer necessary to talk only, we must finally act in this House too!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e15064	The next speaker is Mr Dietachmayr. 10 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e15085	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is already very strange if Mr Graf comes up with this pult and says that his group's request is being dealt with in a polemic manner. – I’ll tell you what’s polemic: Polishly, it is to do with the sad fate of these people political little money! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: I am myself from a family of legs! You don't!]] I will now tell you what is right and what the legal situation looks like. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: My relatives have died to hundreds!]] Mr Graf, Member of the Commission. They have said from this speaker's point of view that this money, which is not present at all, is intended to form a fund. However, such a fund would again not be available to the individual, but to the "house of the home". [[Abg. Young: There are such and such sacrifices, that is so!]] But I'll be back later. Firstly, I would like to briefly describe the order and fairness of the matter for those Members who do not know the matter as well as for those Members who do not know it. Due to the asset agreement with the former ČSSR, the Republic of Austria has received around 1 billion schilling in cash as well as assets, rights and interests located in the Republic of Austria. This was covered by the provisions of the Capital Settlement Act. Afterwards, the former owners of the commercial court were able to assert the issue of these assets. This period was ten years and was publicly announced several times. [[Abg. Young: What happened to the money after the deadline, Mr. Colleague?]] Those assets that could not be returned due to this legal basis were used by the Republic of Austria and the recovery proceeds – just listen to me a little! I have also listened to you – and the proceeds of these assets have been allocated to the total amount, so that a total amount of over 1,523 205 502 billion schilling has come out. [[Abg. Young: Are they worse?]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Col. Dietachmayr! They're disfellowshipped speakers! Can you talk about it?]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You are a Member...!]] That's exactly how it was calculated! This was paid out by more than 1.1 billion shillings until the entry into force of the novelle in 1997, which you have already spoken about and which we have decided unanimously. As there were fewer applicants than expected, an amount of around 385 million schilling was left. Therefore, in 1997, as part of an amendment to the ČSSR Act, this quota was increased by 34 percent, as already mentioned, with the votes of all the political groups in this House. A use of these means – and now you listen well! – For purposes other than those referred to in the asset contract, a breach of a international obligation constitutes and is therefore illegal! I think it is not our task to act Polish and populist, but to work in accordance with the law. [[Abg. Young: We can do the laws...! That's what we've done right now! What do you say? You can only read it!]] As a result of this novelle in 1997, some 60 million schillings have been paid out by the Finanzlandesdirektion für Wien, Niederösterreich and Burgenland, which deal with this, and a number of procedures are still under way, so that this would not be legally possible. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: This is a shame! The whole thing can certainly run 20 years!]] They always talk about an amount that is not available at all. It is really embarrassing that, by your false information, you are raising hopes of 150 or more million schillings at the disposal of the officials of the Association of German national teams, which are not at all available. This amount is not available! It is also a letter from the national teams – you will also know – to the Federal Chancellor and to the Deputy Chancellor. To this end, it must be said that the ČSSR expressly waived its assets in the asset contract. All assets that could not be returned under the Asset Management Act were exploited and, as mentioned above, resulted in a total of over 1.5 billion schilling. It is therefore incorrect that these 153,9 million schillings of the Republic have fallen at home, as you have put it in the application. That's wrong! The 1990 motion for a resolution was allocated to the Financial Committee, but it was not dealt with any more in parliamentary terms. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Because the legislative period has expired!]] The legislative period has expired, and a similar request has not been reintroduced in the next and next period. It is therefore also incorrect that this request has been adopted at the meeting of the National Council, as you have formulated it and have communicated it to the ladies and gentlemen of the Association. So this is an untruth! Ladies and gentlemen! For the "House of the Home", which was probably opened three years ago, I would like to mention this in particular; I am very much in favour of it and have also very often participated in discussions to raise money to finance this House, a total of 31.9 million Schilling were made available from budget funds in 1990 to 1997. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The money is from the Sudeten Germans themselves!]] Mr. Collegue! You've made that up for yourself! At the previous meeting, we decided on an amount of 2 million schillings for the scientific rework of the history of the displaced people, which is certainly an important part of the reprocessing of the whole history of Austria. I hope that this amount will also be made available as a result so that the experts can be paid for it. Ladies and gentlemen! It is very "beautiful" and populist, and perhaps it brings some vote by making the people's hopes, which are not feasible, because the content of the promise is illegal. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: But you do!]] Mr Graf! That is why I must strictly reject this method. In this way, your activities do not help the displaced at all! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You want to treat the Sudeten Germans forever and ever as a bitter and alms recipient!]] Shame! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You must be ashamed!]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] They play a really bad and wrong game with the hope and feelings of the people! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] I also advocate for the displaced, but always within the framework of the law, and I am not ready to perhaps win sympathys, to go a path like those you have suggested, since I know exactly that this path is a wrong one, because an illegal one!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e15311	Mr Jung has also been mentioned on the floor. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e15333	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, the Sudeten Germans and the Germans have no powerful lobby behind them, even the press as in the USA. The interest is accordingly low. However, one should proceed here after the legal position and not distinguish between such and such victims! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In my opinion, this issue has two aspects: Mr Graf referred to the financial aspect; However, they have stubbornly refused to respond to them, although money can very well be spent on other areas and deadlines can be extended and changed if you want. This has been clearly seen lately! There is also a moral aspect, and much remains to be done in this regard. It is in this context, as well as the question of stolen goods, high in time, also to practice financial justice to the displaced Germans, but above all moral justice, and not to distinguish between such and such, between good and bad victims. Ladies and gentlemen! I saw Mauthausen, I was in various Jewish museums in the U.S., I was in Yad VashemXXX.Häu in Jerusalem, and I believe that no one can leave these memorials emotionally untouched and without shock. They recall a bureaucracy of grayery, places where human lives were only numbers and where one distinguished by a ramp between life-worthy and unvalued. We all know these signs and have had them in mind on many occasions of commemoration. That is why I would like to hear a very different eyewitness report from you very briefly, also about victims: "... the horrific sight that offered itself to him exceeded his powers. Rings around an attack column were tied to five young women with a rope several times wrapped. They had been pushed into a canal of their seven children, the canal grid was re-established, the children were poured with petrol and ignited. The moment Rainer came in, the handcuffed mothers were also sprayed and lit with gasoline. The women did not sound like burning torches. It was the jolly crowd who escaped that one of the Germans had cut off the tightened knit and thrown himself into the flames, which were carried out by the channel grid. Their forces, laden by death, lifted the lattice away. Located on the belly, this mother tried to fall into the knelts of the plowing children. Lifeless they were in the flames. Meanwhile, burning from the feet up to the hair, the other four women were bitten together, because the joint hold had been taken by the knit. That was the sign for the murderers to convert the pillar into a jubilant ring dance." Ladies and gentlemen! That wasn't Auschwitz! Even Auschwitz has no such terrible descriptions. That was the daily sales day in Czechoslovakia in spring 1945 – after the end of the war! The perpetrators were not uniform, but they were civilians, men and women. These displaced people too were innocent victims! However, it is still paid off today and is all too often demonstrated by the fascism argument's "totfall" to remember and to make moral or financial reparation. But in contrast to the Jewish victims of National Socialism, the executioners and murderers of these victims were never acquitted, but were acquitted by the Beneš decrees and often also, like the President of Prague's Spring, who was even in the West, General Ludvik Svoboda, XXX cf. Ladies and gentlemen! It is very high time to speak the truth here and finally to bring about material, but above all moral, justice to these victims! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr President, I should like to thank Finally, listen to the voice of your conscience! Can you tell me what these victims differ in? Why, for example, have the Jewish victims of the war also been lifted with regard to deadlines? Why can this – rightly! – to be liquidated? And why do these people, the Sudeten Germans, have no right to do so, Mr Dietachmayr? – You have clearly refused this answer to this pult! You're on Your manuscript, probably because you have stopped your bad conscience from answering this question! This is the reality here in this house! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I can only appeal to you, ladies and gentlemen: Show that you do not distinguish between such and such victims! Show this with your vote!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e15409	Mr Dr Höchtl was also mentioned on the floor. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e15430	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The question of the displaced is certainly never alone a financial and material one. Every time we seriously discuss such issues here, we must bear in mind that we have taken the view that whenever human rights violations, deportations, tortures, killings – especially in this century – have been committed unjustly, and these tortures, killings and deportations have been wrong and remain wrong. That must be a moral principle to which all politicians professing human rights must express themselves! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Secondly, After 1945, the Sudeten Germans made haste that they were brutally driven out within a few hours, about 3.5 million people, with some 245,000 dead. This fate must not be forgotten! The question is just what reasonable possibilities we have. Because we cannot calculate this fate of schilling around schilling, crown around kroner in order to balance the wrong half by trying to achieve some material improvement. Rather, we all have to answer together the question of how we manage to remove from the world those decrees that are summarized under the title of "Beneš decrees". With these decrees, injustice has been legalized and injustice declared right. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The Foreign Minister says the opposite!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer.]] That means: We must work together in bilateral and international efforts to remove this injustice from the world! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Tell your Foreign Minister!]] Mr President, I should like to thank They understand little of that, but it doesn't matter, because whoever agrees with us in the question that the Beneš decrees were already wrong at the time and will always be wrong as long as they exist, I am right in the fight against this injustice! For injustice must be eliminated and can never be right! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Tell Mr. Dietachmayr!]] Now, however, on the question that is being debated today. I've got it, because we're in a financial committee... – That's not a slalom at all, but that's my confession, that's my convictions! [[Abg. Ing. Nut trees: This is a höchtl slalom!]] There's no question mark at all! However, I would now like to address what the debate is about. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer.]] Even if you shout, don't bring a better argument! Let us now look at what the debate says: What's the debate? . The debate is about two requests, whether there are additional possibilities for disbursing funds for those concerned within the framework of a foundation. I have also postponed a meeting of the Financial Committee to the next date with the reason that we must check the legal basis for these applications and what is at all possible. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] Mr President, I should like to thank You don't know what you're talking about! Find out what the talk is about, and then we can discuss honestly, no difficulty! Mr Dietachmayr mentioned at least the legal basis on which we must refer in a legal, financial debate. Everything else is important from the moral point of view, but it is not directly related to the proposal for a law. What is the point of the requests? – I am a little amazed, and I must repeat to the public what I have already set up in the Committee on Budgets a few days ago: I was amazed at the fact that there were two requests from the Liberals in the Committee on Finance, according to which it was tried to distribute money again or extend a period of time, even though it had already been decided in this House with the votes of the Liberals, that on the one hand this period had expired, and on the other hand the whole money available for it had already been distributed. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's not true!]] That's the truth! And I have not yet seen anyone in this House who has arrived to make a request for money to be distributed again, which has already been distributed with his voice. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: It doesn't get any more true if you repeat it again and again!]] This is a premiere, and this question has to be answered by Mr Graf. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] There's no second time, that's a premiere, that's a unicum! I cannot accept a request which has no basis at all! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I say a clear yes to the home house. We have worked to ensure that this "house of home" is a place of meeting for the displaced. [[Abg. Young: They make them alms! This is an incredible superiority!]] I can tell you, Mr Cot: Don't talk like that. Because what you're saying is stupid! – I was personally with some friends 14 days ago at a big celebration in the "House of Home", because unlike you, I have always been one who has known each other about his past. My parents were among those who were violently displaced in 1945. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Me too, my colleague!]] And I don't want to judge this fate of my parents any more than they described it to me. They have told me that we must never forget this injustice! However, I must also give the right answer to the things that exist. I said: We have known ourselves to the House of Homeland, and it was not the Freedom Party, but it was this Federal Government which, over the course of seven years, from 1990 to 1997, provided exactly 31 930 000 S for the establishment of the "House of Homeland" from budget resources and not from any other means. In an initiative, the Foreign Minister and the Federal Chancellor have agreed that in the coming years, beginning with this year, 2 million schillings will be made available annually for the "house of the home". Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! These are deeds, not words, and deeds count! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! If you say that you have made the request because more money should be available to the person concerned from the existing resources, I can prove to you that you want to use money twice. ==References== In October 1997, the votes of the Liberals, the Liberals, the Greens, the Socialists and the People's Party unanimously decided that the funds still available in total, in the sum of more than 385 825 000 S, should be paid in addition to the previous amounts, to the applicants who have submitted their applications up to a certain date. This was a unanimous decision of the National Council. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We Members of all the other political groups acknowledge that we will continue to stick to what we decide in a law in the future. We are in favour of further support for the Sudeten Germans, but we are opposed to distributing funds for a second time, whose distribution we have already passed by law here!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e15607	Mr Graf, Mr President of the Commission, spoke on an actual correction. 2 minutes of time limit. Please be limited to correcting facts!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e15639	Mr President. High house! Mr Höchtl has claimed that I would have made a request for the distribution of money already issued with the Federal Act amending the CSSR compensation law. – That is actually incorrect! It is true, rather, that this change in the law introduced an § 42a according to § 42a, according to which an increase of 34 percent was granted to the amounts of compensation. In the entire legislative amendment, which includes six paragraphs, there is no amount limit at all, and there is no mention of a sum of around 300 million schillings which they have mentioned here from the speaker's desk. You have made a summary, but I have the legislative text here! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] For me, the text of the law counts, and we have not decided in what form that is to be budgeted. There's a difference! And I am sad that I have to tell an old fox and parliamentarian what a law is, what is decided and...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e15666	In fact, please correct!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e15681	I'm sorry. That was not decided. And even if you say it so often, it won't be true!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e15712	Mr Kurzmann has also been reported on the floor. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e15730	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Graf's requests are therefore of importance because they are also about justice and the reparation for the victims of the expulsion by the Czechs, namely a compensation for the Sudeten Germans. This is by no means – as one previous speaker noted – about the change of political small money! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dietachmayr.]] I would also like to make it clear from this point of view: The People's Germans are not bitters in this country. They have contributed a great deal to the development of this country, and they deserve a real representation here and not just a performance of an alibi function! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: We've known that for a long time!]] For example, if § 36 of the compensation law of the former Czechoslovakia establishes that claims for compensation are only valid until the 31st century. It is not surprising that, instead of the more than 90 000 expected, only 47 000 applications were made. In 1980 there was the so-called East Block and also a functioning Warsaw Pact, and there has been no realistic possibility for many interested parties to obtain a realistic compensation. However, I would also like to point out in this connection that compensation for many of the persecuted old Austrians does not work or is very sluggish with other EU enlargement candidates. As an example, I call our southern neighbours Slovenia: As we know, Slovenia's free and independent state in 1991 does not want to separate itself from the notorious Avnoj laws. It is similar to that in the Czech Republic with the Beneš decrees. The so-called Avnoj laws were the partisan decisions of Jajce, which later came into force for all Yugoslavia. They were the basis for the murder, expulsion and persecution of, for example, the underseater, the Gottscheer or the Donauschwaben. These avnoj laws are different from the infamous Beneš decrees in the Czech Republic, although not part of the Slovenian Constitution, the so-called Denationalisation Act, which took place on 20 July. In November 1991, it entered into force in Slovenia, but builds directly on the Avnoj law and continues the right of the old Austrians. The date for the return of the confiscated assets is the 28th anniversary. August 1945. At that time, however, the members of the German minority, namely about 540 000 people, were either in communist concentration camps such as star valleys or cloths or on the run. – In my opinion, pure cynicism is that a democratic state like Slovenia wants to achieve reparation – without any hesitation and reluctance – but otherwise expresses its historical responsibility! Ladies and gentlemen! Public opinion is also tickling on this point. For a long time it was not opportune to talk about these things at all. On this subject, I found a very interesting article in one of the Freedom Party's very unobtrusive papers, namely in the issue of the "Kronen Zeitung" of 9. ==References== – Under the heading "No Persilschein für Beneš" you can read: "Czech and Slovenia want to go to the EU. The basis for accession negotiations is only the Treaty works within the EU. This does not include the expulsion of the people of Germany. This formal position is undisputed by the Austrian Federal Government – because the demand for involvement of Czech Beneš decrees and Slovenian AVNOJ decisions comes first from the evil Haider, second, ‘good people’ in Paris and London could consider such an approach as ‘unsanitary’ and thirdly, Bonn does not want to get into a bad light. Does the Austrian Federal Government not notice how it is infringing the legal sense of the people?" And here's what it says: "Since the new claims for compensation of Nazi victims, we have developed a broad sensitivity to the questions of past law and injustice. And more importantly, The EU is more than just a trade association. It is – and this emphasizes the Federal Government on step and step – a community of values. In such a community of values, there must be no place for Beneš decrees and AVNOJ decisions!" There must be no room for this in a civilised Central European society!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e15778	Mr Magistrate has also been mentioned in the debate. Peter. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e15796	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dr. Kurzmann! I think it's opportun to talk about it: He who sows wind will reap storm, and he who sows crime must endure the answer. [[Abg. Dr. Kurzmann: They confuse victims and perpetrators! That's unheard of!]] You haven't heard me yet! The occupation of the Protectorate of Bohemia and Moravia was a crime against international law. Lidice's crimes, to take just one example, were crimes against human rights, and the fascist system of Tiso in Slovakia has also extended the injustice of that time. The revenge of the year 1945, without wanting to beautify them, was followed on foot. Almost a quarter of a million people have died, some in the most cruel way. Over three million people were expelled. These are, of course, crimes against human rights, and there is no doubt that injustice has been committed against the displaced. I am therefore pleased to hear again and again that there are more Czech people affected by the crimes that have occurred in the name of their people. However, this expulsion also brought with it a sustainable weakening of Czechoslovakia. Three and a half million people have been lost in postwar reconstruction times. On the other hand, we have experienced a strengthening of these people who have come to us and have been integrated into Austria. Thus, we Austrians were able to experience in close proximity what untold suffering in our name as part of the "big German Empire", which we were then, was added to other peoples and how this then, as a late revenge, came back. However, we Austrians have no right at all, ladies and gentlemen – I would like to say this in particular to you from the Liberal Group. – to lift up the warning finger. It is absolutely unacceptable to compare! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] It is absolutely unacceptable to say: There are such and such sacrifices. You can't torture a person more than death. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] But this is the following: We have to stand up for the crimes we have committed in our country, and the Czech people will have to stand for the crimes they have committed in their country. And I am delighted – I stress that once again! – that, with the exception of fewer nationalists in the Czech Republic, more and more people – at the head of President Havel – are finally learning to deal with their past. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] The distress and the request for forgiveness must also continue to accompany us, the generation of the offspring. I consider the statements of the poet Martin Walser to be interesting as part of the award of the Peace Prize of the German Book Trade in Germany. He has triggered a hard and necessary dispute. He said it must be over with the eternal treatment of the past. He even spoke of the "Instrumentization Auschwitz". I would like to speak to the Lord. Walser contradicts: I am pleased that such a public debate was possible in Germany and that it was conducted in all clarity and hardness. In Austria too, we have to take a position on this issue. However, I am afraid that in Austria we are not yet ready for such a high level debate. We must lead them, however, even if it is controversial and painful, as the Germans do today! Ladies and gentlemen! The suffering of the displaced can only touch us personally and keep the feeling of happiness in us, that such a thing has so far been spared and will hopefully always be spared. The amount of losses suffered by three and a half million SudetenGermans is not financially equal. The question of whether there are now 1 billion or 1.5 billion schilling certainly helps individuals there and there; however, the overall suffering is not equal, and the crimes which these people suffered cannot be remedied by replacement services. Rather, we should also think about how we are still dealing with the shadow of our past. There is the beautiful sentence: Shouldn't we stop looking for the splitters in the eye of our neighbor as long as we don't see the nearby beams? We have still not had the courage to really answer the question of the fate of the people who lived as forced workers in Austria. We pushed this out after the war. We have not really discussed the provision of stolen art goods. They have all, ladies and gentlemen of the House, got the book of the Thorsch family, which was finally "extended" from this country. This country has never responded. As long as we haven't done that, I mean, we shouldn't raise our fingers to others. I therefore reject the requests made by the liberals.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e15850	Mr Graf, Mr President of the Commission, has made a point of correcting the matter. Please correct facts and do not represent feelings and motives!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e15874	Mr President. High house! Mr Peter has said here that the liberals are constantly different between such and such victims. – That’s wrong! [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Just not! That's what you're doing!]] Just the opposite is the case! We don't distinguish between victims at all! [[Intervocations at the Liberal Forum, the Freeman and the SPÖ.]] Toddlers, old people, girls, especially women, but also men, when they die, are tormented, injured and victims, for us...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e15907	Mr Graf, please correct the fact – and no further comments.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e15922	I've corrected the fact: We do not distinguish between such and such victims. This is exactly the opposite of what Mr Peter said here.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e15964	Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Stoisits. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e15985	Ladies and gentlemen! I wasn't on the speaker list. I did not intend to take the floor. But if a Member of this House, like a Member of this House, after a very moving description or lecture of events, as well as of something that has just happened to people of a certain nationality, says here, even from Auschwitz, there would be no such terrible descriptions, then I must speak. Ladies and gentlemen! Human rights are indivisible. I cannot find any better words on what Mr Brigadier Jung said than the words of Hermann Langbein, a now deceased resistance fighter, who once, in one of his last interviews, said to a journalist that Auschwitz had been hell, I try to quote him here: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young]] Auschwitz was hell? - No! Hell is something outside the world. Auschwitz was the world. A whole state apparatus has been involved. Austria also belonged to this state. Human rights are indivisible! The suffering of the murdered is not calculated. Industrial mass destruction has so far remained a singular event in history, and it should remain that way. The monstrosity of a crime like that of the Nazis is not comparable to anything. That's why there's no equation. That's why there's only the preservation, so there's only the memory, and that's why there's only the key word: Never forget! – But some have already forgotten!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e16027	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. There is no conclusion from the rapporteur. We are entering the voting procedure and I therefore ask that the seats be taken. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall vote on the request of the Financial Committee to take note of its report 1565 of the supplements. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to the report. – This is the majority. The report has been taken note of. We shall also vote on the request of the Financial Committee to take note of its report 1566 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to give their consent to a corresponding sign. – This too is the majority. The request was accepted. 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Committee on Budgets on the accounts for 1997 (III-146/1525 of the Supplements) 12. Point Report by the Committee on Budgets on Amendment No 415/A by Mr Dr. Hans Peter Haselsteiner and Comrades concerning a federal law amending the Court of Auditors Act 1948 and the Rules of Procedure Act 1975 (1541 of the Supplements) 13. Point Report by the Budget Committee on Amendment 843/A by Dr Alexander Van der Bellen and Comrades on a Federal Act amending the Federal Budget Act 1986 (1542 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e16117	I now call on points 11 to 13 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are entering the debate. Mr Magistrate has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Trattner. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e16147	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Each of the government's parties is likely to break out in jubilation: The 1997 budget deficit was forecast with 68 billion schilling, and it has now become only 67.2 billion schilling. The Minister of Finance can probably be celebrated as the Great Sanctifier. But, Minister of Finance, that's not the case. You know very well, too, that this budget has been set at quite different premises. At the time, they were not ministers of finance – and this is clear – when this budget was set under the premise of economic growth of 2.6 percent. However, according to the national accounts, 3.9 percent of economic growth has been achieved effectively – that is, by 50 percent more! It says, please,... [[Federal Minister Edlinger: The one is the real, the other the nominal!]] No, both percentages have been established on the condition that they are nominal figures! Mr Finanzminister, take the federal accounts, read them through, and stop criticizing them from the back of the government bank and making us feel your grant! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We are the Parliament, and you are on the Government Bank! Just note that you too have to read the federal accounts! In this, Mr President, I would like to say quite clearly that this is within, Mr Finanzminister. The budget has been drawn up on the assumption of nominal economic growth of 2.6 percent, but because of the national accounts, economic growth is nominally 3.9%. Now you can't say that one is real and the other is nominal! Because it's in there! Or just tell my colleague on the bank, Mr President of the Court of Auditors, that the officials may have written something wrong. Mr President-in-Office of the Council will then give an opinion on this. But you can't say from behind, from the government bank, that one is nominal and the other is real. This can be done, please, not, because it is all very precisely mentioned in this report! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Now you are lucky to have a 50 percent higher economic growth, and boast that the budget deficit has been minimally lowered. You know very well that one percent more economic growth between 12 and 15 billion schilling brings more tax revenue. This is exactly the criticism that we used to make on the part of the opposition parties at the time. At the time, we criticised the fact that this tax package is primarily at the expense of the population, contrary to what your predecessor, the then Minister of Finance and current Federal Chancellor climate, said that one third would be brought up by tax increases and two thirds by cutbacks in expenditure. You'll have to revise that soon. The Wifo has said that the relationship is at best 50 to 50. The IMF has said that the emphasis was on tax increases. Now you may say the IMF doesn't interest you, the Wifo doesn't interest you. They have quite different figures, perhaps from the chairman of the Committee on Public Debt, who said at the last meeting of the Committee on Budgets on the Federal Government's Financial Debt Report that the structural measures by the Federal Government had been so eminent that they had saved 14 billion schilling only in the case of personnel costs through structural measures. If you look at the federal accounts and look for those 14 billion schillings mentioned by Professor Frisch, you will find on page 202 in volume 2 that the work performance to third parties has been increased by 21.6 billion schilling. If you increase your work performance to third parties by 21.6 billion schilling and a minimal reduction – by 5 billion – of public personnel, you want to talk about structural success! Mr Finanzminister! If, on the one hand, you say that you have got the budget under control with structural measures, and on the other hand, on the condition that economic growth, which was 50 percent higher than forecast, has not changed the deficit, then there are only two conclusions: Either the budget was completely wronged at the time, in so far as it has been said that this budget corresponds to 2.6% of economic growth, but 3.9% of economic growth now results in the same deficit; or it has proved to be true that these structural measures of the Federal Government were really only short-term in nature, insofar as they have been said that in 1996, this will have an effect, but in 1997 the under-incomes will become apparent. [[Abg. May. Mühlbachler: (returning from the Bureau) Trattner, there is a third conclusion: that you are wrong!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Calls only from the seat! The Master Teacher...!]] Your colleague, you can make yourself a speaker here and then give your speech donations from you. We have not heard anything from you in the Committee on Budgets. Mr Finanzminister, this is exactly what we are talking about: Either the budget was misdesigned at the time, under the premise of 2.6 percent – but the economic growth now accounts for 3.9% – or what else is going on? – I would ask you to answer this question in front of the House today. The second question is: What about the structural measures, with those 14 billion schillings to which Professor Frisch refers? They cannot be seen here in the billing accounts – at least 5 billion schilling, but more than 21 billion schilling. But they can't explain to us how these things come to be. Today, you want to make it clear to the people that you have at best 10 billion schilling available for a tax reform, and now you increase the whole to 18 billion shilling and say a third should pay the countries, two thirds the federal government pays. That means 12 billion schillings want to be made available to you. But on the expenditure side, you do not have the slightest sense of implementing structural measures! We do not expect short-term but medium-term approaches so that you can see that you have the will to save on expenditure so that a tax reform can finally be implemented for the Austrian population. But you don't have that will! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They always assume that we have to meet these expenditures, and on the other hand, we only want to increase revenue, i.e. taxes. You have to explain this to us today how this discrepancy can be understood.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e16248	Mr Sigl, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e16270	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Accounting Act 1997 was significantly influenced by the effects of the 1996 Structural Adjustment Act. The consolidation programme for 1996 and 1997 brought about a change in the trend in budgetary development. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Brauneder gives the bell sign]] The federal budget deficit was reduced from 117.9 billion schilling in 1995 to 67.2 billion schilling or 2.7 percent of gross domestic product in 1997. The general government deficit after Maastricht definition, as measured by the gross domestic product, was thus significantly lower than the convergence value and also substantially below the prescribed target of the Federal Government of 3 percent of the gross domestic product. With the end of the general budget of 67.2 billion Schilling, Austria has achieved the Maastricht objective as one of the first countries. The debt ratio could be reduced by more than 3 percentage points of GDP from 69.5% to 66.1 percent. The restrictive effects on economic growth and employment were much lower than was prophesied by the opposition. These efforts ensure the participation of Austria in the third stage of economic and monetary union. This is particularly important for Austria as an open economy with a stable currency of particular economic and political importance. This will also ensure that the main tasks of the federal government, namely ensuring the economic location and thus employment and the continuation of the social state, can be fulfilled. High house! I would like to comment briefly on some of the points or figures in the Court of Auditors' report on the federal accounts, as they seem to me to be essential to the further economic and social development of our country. For the first time, the primary balance of the federal government shows a surplus of 22.8 billion schilling between 1993 and 1997. Since the primary balance can be seen as an indicator of the impact of the current financial policy on future budgets, allowing conclusions to be drawn on the longer-term stability of budgetary development, and here, as I said earlier, we have to talk about a turnaround. The Court of Auditors' report also confirms the increase in the number of employees on the Austrian labour market by 0.4 percent compared with the previous year. Unfortunately, the unemployment rate has not yet been reduced, but in any case the increase in the number of unemployed has been slowed down. There will be a decisive improvement in the employment opportunities for people without work in the next few years. The trend in inflation is all the more positive. The rise in prices fell again last year, which is pleasing in terms of the euro, and in 1997 averaged 0.6 percentage points lower than in 1996. Clearly, a consistently low inflation rate is not essential to investment-willing financial forces. Finally, I would like to say a few things about exports. Although the export figures experienced a slight decline in 1997, one can be quite optimistic. The 1998 export figures benefit from the dynamic demand development and the German Federal Government's export offensive. Exports of goods should increase by 9 per cent in 1998 and 1999 in real terms, reaching more than 31 per cent of nominal GDP in 1999 after reaching 25.7 per cent in 1996. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The federal accounts of 1997 show that our Minister of Finance's budgetary policy, characterised by social-democratic handwriting, guarantees Austria's continued existence as a financially stable country and as an economic location. That is why I would like to make a point. Finally, you request that you give your consent to this federal accounts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e16328	Mr Dr Kier has also been mentioned on the floor. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e16349	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! On these agenda items I can take a short look at the main points, especially since the federal accounts are partly already an economic-historical paper. However, he was already interesting to read. As positive as my previous speaker, I cannot assess the key figures resulting from the billing, and I admit that, not least because of the performance of the Austrian economy and the willingness of the Austrian people to do this, the growth expectations have finally been achieved and thus the budget implementation has remained essentially within the framework of the planned approaches. However, this start, which was taken at the time, was apparently not long enough. That is why what we expect from the future tax reform is not what we actually deserve. Because we've been on the path for a very long time now. What I would like to stress in particular during this brief debate on the federal accounts, is the next item on the agenda, which I am simply pleased that the Liberal Group has succeeded in bringing a request to an all-party consensus on time limits for the submission of the federal accounts and in achieving that, after today's decision of the Federal Accounting Council, the National Council will now be present to the national Council by September at the latest of the following year's budget implementation. That is something that fills you with joy, because in this case it has shown that stubborn endurance has led to a common solution. The fact that a novel to the Rules of Procedure will also be necessary cannot be saddened by joy. The motion for a resolution is already in the House and will shortly be sent to the first reading and, as I hope, it will then be decided quickly, because it is then only more of a matter of propriety that we should also adapt our own Rules of Procedure in such a way that we can make use of the benefit of the earlier presentation of the federal accounts also in the context of the discussions in this House. [[Accompaniment at the Liberal Forum]] I now turn to the item on the agenda for Mr Van der Bellen's request. On the other hand, I have had the sad opposition experience that, at first, it seemed as if a certain consensus would prevail in this respect, which at first manifested itself in the Committee's deliberations, one would like to postpone that, in order to improve it at the level of the legal language, however, the result of the vote was no longer voted on this project, but was directly on the request and, although it is a very reasonable matter in its content, it remained on the track. It was important for me to report this also in plenary, since not all of them are constantly informed about the Committee's situation. If we had noticed in time that the postponement in the Chamber was actually a planned rejection, then we would have argued differently in the Committee's deliberations. - It's been a wormhead drop. We felt that in a way we were slowed down – not by the majority of the government parties, but by the process. That was a shame. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e16396	Mr Magistrate has also been mentioned in the debate. Steindl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e16417	Mr President! Minister! High house! I would like to share my speech. The first part will be devoted to the billing in 1997, and since the accounts are drawn up in the past, I would also like to look into the future and therefore devote the second part of my speech to the future. Four comments can be made on the 1997 accounts: First – you can't discuss it away –: It is simply gratifying – it must be noted – that the finish could be lowered by 736 million schilling. First of all, this is quite simply a pleasure, Mr Minister. The second point is that the billing - and this is also to be noted in this form - is somewhat distorted by measures such as the breakdown of the ASFINAG – but this does not change the balance, but also by the introduction of reserves. Mr Trattner, this must be stated openly: If we had not done so by 6.3 billion, then the end would have been even more reduced, namely by 6.3 billion schilling. [[Abg. May. Trattner: But over 3 billion have been dissolved, you have to say that too!]] This must be said quite openly, and this is also stated in the invoice. Then the thing would look quite different. [[Abg. May. Trattner: That's where you'd look, Minister of Finance!]] I would like to make a third comment: There is therefore a distortion... [[Abg. May. Trattner: 3 billion have been dissolved!]] Well, anyway, it's 3 billion. But you also have to say that, and you did not say it here at the speaker's desk. One must give honor to the truth. [[Abg. May. Trattner: The fact that economic growth was 50 percent higher must also be said!]] But I would like to say something to the distortion: This distortion has to do with Professor Van der Bellen's request. In fact, it is difficult to compare revenue and expenditure with the other years by disseminating, by disseminating federal enterprises, and the result is, in fact, somewhat distorted. That's the way it is. The fourth point concerns a positive statement – and I would like to stress this too – that in 1997 we have, interestingly, for the first time for a long time, a positive primary balance. That is, the balance of the general budget minus interest service is positive with 20.9 billion schilling. If one now uses this primary balance as an indicator, then some conclusions can already be drawn from it. This means, in my opinion, that it is going towards long-term stability of budget development – in other words: We're saving! It is very easy to hold this up in this form. The only drop in advertising – and this has already been said here – is that this idea of savings is more on the revenue side, in the negative sense, in that revenue is rising, but we have to think more about expenditure, how we are taking structural measures. It is therefore time for a tax reform. The government parties have become aware of this tax reform. The volume of 30 billion schilling is already known. I am in favour, Minister of Finance, that we should bind this package as soon as possible. That was once my statement on the past. However, we have not only talked in committee about the clearance of accounts, but also concerned ourselves with the future, namely the request made by the Liberal Forum. In this regard, I must correct Mr Kier, who is now no longer in the hall, and find that, indeed, it was a request from the Liberal Forum, but with a time limit that is impossible! That was what Mr Kier saw. He meant that we were up to the 31st century. In May the accounts were to be drawn up. But that is not possible, because there is a certain period of time – you have to know about it. If the Court of Auditors draws up this accounts, there is once a statement from the Minister for Finance. There are also certain expiry periods: ==References====External links== Payments to be made at the expense of the financial year which expired. ==References== Mr President, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. If this were calculated high, it would not have been possible to complete an invoice by the end of May. We therefore discussed this in a realistic way in the Committee, and there was then a five-party amendment to the proposal that the invoice should be concluded by 30 June. It is to be presented in September, i.e. at a time when we are also discussing the budget for the next year, and that seems to me, of course, useful. In the future, this means that, as a result of the accounts in the accounts, we can draw conclusions for further budgetary development. But that's too little for me. I refer to the advisory study, which has also been discussed. I would be sorry, Minister, if this advisory study were to be submitted ad acta. We should discuss them seriously. I personally would have been in the committee if we were to set up a subcommittee, and only then was the opposition – although it did not directly reject it – argued against it because it accused us that we were simply trying to get rid of problems here and not to solve them. In concrete terms, this meant the Greens' request. In my opinion, the study is very important. In fact, the billing is only a numbering work and there is no way to look to the future. There are no control options. For example, we should look at the core of the estimate equation: It makes no statement about sparingness, cost-effectiveness, expediency. Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Perhaps it could be a suggestion – which could also be realized without changing anything – that we are talking about fractionally, similar to what was done in the Committee on Tourism in the Committee on Tourism, and that, for example, we should also mention priorities in which a deviation analysis is possible, i.e. perhaps in the text of the report, a little more attention should be paid to these deviations. That might be a possibility. The Advisory Council study also states that the stock and success accounts have a limited statement due to the high reserves of assessment, or that the annual accounts may be entirely absent. All of this means: Firstly, the 1997 accounts should be considered as positive. Secondly, we should take the advisory study seriously, we should put together, whether in a committee or in a subcommittee, and really discuss the measures in detail. We may be able to change, modify, detach and detach from the financial statements – which I believe should continue to be drawn up by the Court of Auditors. Thirdly, I would be very much in favour of starting this debate very soon. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e16493	Mr Van der Bellen also spoke. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e16511	Mr President! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have only four comments to make. First of all, a comment on the previous speakers of the coalition parties: Mr Steindl! Of course, the primary balance will be positive if a very high level of government debt is tried to reduce the deficits. That's a mathematical necessity. However, I would like to ask the question: Is the fact that the savings packages of 1996 and 1997 were needed somehow fallen from heaven? - No! This was due to the legendary government art of SPÖ and ÖVP by 1995 at the latest, when the deficit in the federal budget exploded! Of course, this development had to be corrected. However, I am nervous when you present the so-called tax packages or savings packages in 1996 and 1997 - no matter what you call them - as a special government piece, although you were the one that approved this development in 1995! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Steindl: You must not be unjust! There have also been elections due to this situation!]] Secondly, It is a strong piece that the failure to set up a subcommittee in the Committee on Budgets is now attributed to the opposition parties, Mr Steindl. It is true that I have suffered a case of anger in the Committee on Budgets. That is not to be denied! [[Cheerfulness and call of the Abg. Ing. Langthaler.]] You won't believe it, Monika, but it was indeed! However, I did not receive the outbreak of anger because of the subcommittee to discuss the advisory study – because I would have accepted such a subcommittee at any time and also expressly support it – but because a truly very "complicated" three-line proposal was not accepted by me and the chairman wanted to assign it to the subcommittee first. I shall come back to this request: To understand this tripartite proposal, you really just need the intelligence of a three-year-old! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Trattner.]] And if he was badly formulated formulated, that would be my fault, but there would not have been any interruption of the know-how of the government parties in any way if I had been told that the word "number 13" should perhaps have been replaced by another. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Steindl.]] You said, Mr Steindl – and I will get my next anger! – that the Subcommittee, which should have served as an advisory study discussion, had somehow been strangled by the opposition. [[Rejoicing with the Greens]] That's ridiculous! Even if we had wanted to, Mr Steindl, this would not have been possible. Do you know how the majority relationships in this area are? You know that? – In addition to this, the chairman of the Committee on Budgets is still an ÖVPler. Let him be accused that the Subcommittee has not come to pass. [[Abg. May. Trattner: You might make an application next time!]] Yes! Then maybe it's all right! Mr President. Now a brief comment – before I come up here – on the information content or the priorities of commenting in the federal accounts. We have already discussed the following particularity in the Committee: A substantial reform was made in 1997, namely the adjustment of VAT in the field of social professions, which had become necessary under an EU directive, which led to a significantly increased VAT rate of about 12 billion schilling, if I have it properly in mind, but was budget-neutral, because to the same extent corresponding subsidies were paid to health and social services or social professions. This is an interesting story that has a significant significance purely from the financial volume – 10 billion schilling plus. However, in the federal accounts you are in vain looking for any number to do so. The President then informed me that, in Chapter 52, which concerns the recording of public charges, differences between estimates and federal accounts are recorded only if they represent more than 3 per cent, compared with the proposal, but otherwise they will not be included. – I mean: This procedure certainly had one explanation at some point. However, this means that while minor changes are still being made to the proposal, about 5 million schillings, there are no changes to 5 billion schillings and more – in this case more than 10 billion schillings – to be mentioned with one word. The revenue tax revenue is just so high that even 10 billion schilling – or how much it was in this case – is less than 3 percent. You should think about that once! Perhaps the President will then be able to comment on what the Court of Auditors has now considered the priorities of commenting and providing information. For I think it is possible to make this federal billing a little more exciting than it is at present, but that requires that it be prepared differently, so to speak. Mr. Steindl! As so many previous speakers have referred to it, I now come back to this request, to these sickly three lines – I am saving you all three now and restricting myself to about two –: § 98 of the Federal Budget Act would have been supplemented and include the balance sheets and income and loss accounts of the federal companies, the company-like institutions of the federal government and the distributed companies. It may be that legalism is still too inaccurate because, for example, the distributed undertakings are not described precisely. Then you have to put it differently if you want to! But if you wanted to assign this to a subcommittee so that another two years of debate on how these two lines should speak, I really felt provocation. Allow me to say this again. In the meantime, the Minister of Finance has promised in another committee, namely the Financial Committee, that it would be possible, for example, to include in an annex or in a somewhat subdivided part of the proposal for the Federal Financial Act some essential things concerning the financial impact of the disbursements. I am grateful and, so to speak, with satisfaction and waiting for how this will be done in the next budget. However, Mr Finanzminister, I would also like to say once again in the plenary that I am not only concerned with the financial flows in the current budget, but also with the fact that transparency regarding the disbursements is increased even in those cases in which there are no current flows between the budget and the respective disbursements. For example, if I remember quite well, there is no longer any financial relationship in the Austro Control between the proposal or the budget and this institution, although this is, of course, a federal institution, as to which you would like to see somewhere, which was the main balance sheet items and which were the essential items of the profit and loss account. And this transparency leaves much to be desired! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e16593	President. — The debate is closed. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e16611	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to comment briefly on a few comments that have so far been made in the debate. [[Abg. May. Trattner: No polemics from the government bank!]] I regret that some Members obviously feel that the billing is more favourable than the proposal. I apologise for that, but I won't miss it, nevertheless... [[Intercession with the liberals.]] I mean it honestly and I'm really sorry if it's good for you! [[Abg. Gaugg: The Wachze are still coming!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] [[President Dr. Brauneder gives the bell sign.]] Again: I note that the federal accounts are more favourable than the estimate by more than 700 million schillings. This is, in fact, due to various factors. First of all, I would like to point out that the 1996 and 1997 budget estimates were drawn up in a train, that the basis of these two estimates was the 1996 consolidation package and that it was clear at the time of the budget creation that this double budget was created, in particular in the second part of the budget, namely the one for 1997, with a whole series of uncertainties resulting from the fact that certain effects of the package of measures were not yet clear at the time of the decision-making, when a corresponding budget downturn would take place. In this respect, I am really wondering about some of the statements because I have done so many times, so that in the last committee I was even criticized by one of your fellow Members that I am always saying the same thing. But I also have no reason to say something else! I have always said that the years 1996 and 1997 were presented as a unit with a sum of one-off effects which, of course, were also aimed at achieving the necessary objectives set by the Republic of Austria and the Federal Government, namely to meet the Maastricht criteria in order to be one of the first countries to be also in EMU and thus in the single currency. In the preparation of the budgets for 1998 and 1999 – and also on this point I repeat, because I said this both in my budgetary speech for 1998 and in that for 1999 – we have actually reduced the federal budget deficits only very marginally compared to the end of 1997 and we are likely to be criticised not only here but possibly also in Brussels, but this was the purpose of replacing a sum of one-off budgets in 1996 and 1997 with sustainable and permanent budgets in 1998 and 1999. No one can "get" us into this, because I have explained this in budget creation, and I have had several times an opportunity to refer to the impact of the 1997 budget. I would like to point out that, of course, a number of factors have changed between the 1996 and 1997 budget, for example the growth question, no question at all! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Trattner.]] You must have misunderstood my call! I just asked if you meant nominal or real, because I can read! My report says: 2.8 to 3.9 and 1.2 to 2.5. [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Trattner.]] No, no, no, There says: nominally from 2.8 to 3.9 and real 1.2 to 2.5. And I asked you if you meant nominal or real. You did not understand my call, I am sorry, but I can also read, Mr Trattner. [[Abg. May. Trattner: I accepted that! You're always so quickly offended!]] You can make everything possible for me, but I'm really not very easy to do! I take part in each discussion with a great deal of long-lastingness, even if I am asked five times the same. That must be known, in particular, that I am always answering the same questions with the same answers. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gaugg.]] I would like to say something to you now, Mr Mag. Trattner: Although I did not write down the figures you mentioned, which were the result of the growth effect, I think you have spoken of 10 or 11 billion schilling. - That's wrong! These rules of thumb have still voted in the 1980s. But you know that our growth effects are to a small extent caused by export growth, and that is why we can expect today – and we can also prove this – that 0.1 percent of total growth generates revenue of approximately 600 million schilling, of which about 200 million, i.e. a third, belong to countries and communities. So: A growth of one percent means therefore, Germany's budget of approximately 4 billion net revenue, so that we can assume the right positions. There is no question at all that growth... [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Trattner.]] I don't understand! [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Trattner.]] No, no, no, From 2, 8 to 3,9! But read on page 324! There you can read that nominal growth at the time of budget creation was 2.8% and the current values are 3.9%. [[Abg. May. Trattner: From 2.6 to 3.9! That's on page 14 in the first volume!]] I am based on general economic development, and I do not want to discuss by 0.2 percent now! There are growth effects, read on page 324! I'm sorry! [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] What do you mean? Again: There's a growth effect. However, they assumed that one percent means 10 billion schilling. Please note: One percent is 4 billion net for the federal budget, and I would ask that arguments be derived from this value in future! No one has disputed that growth in 1997, which was actually greater than that which was based on budgeting, has in any case had a positive impact on the budget result. I do not think that should be discussed or ashamed of it. I register this as a very positive effect. If that were not the case, then the 1997 budget implementation should have put in place more restrictive measures than we did. For I would remind you, Mr Magistrate. Trattner, that in April 1997, when a third of the execution was almost over, I realized that we were not able to fully estimate the growth as it was then, and that the risk that we could shoot over the three-percent ominous could have blocked discretional credits of 5 billion schillings, which I have seen from October, when we noticed that this value for growth was not only forecast, but that it was actually coming back to about 50 percent. In addition, there have been changes in the implementation of disseminations. With regard to ASFINAG, the most powerful effects were observed. In this context, the work performance for third parties must also be explained. As a result of the disbursement, we have booked the federal debt to the ASFINAG at an amount of 19 billion, which explains this figure. Above all, however, it was also – we talked about this in another discussion area in the Budget Committee – those 12 billion shilling unreal tax exemptions in the health field, which, even though this was actually a passerby, increased our tax rate by 0.5 percent. And I'd like to talk to you about something else, and that's what I'm going to do. You may be delighted – but I register it as a sackwart –: We have, of course, lost a few hundred million in execution due to the abolition of the minimum cold by the Constitutional Court, which is reflected in the 1997 budget. In other words, in the financial statements, it would be in fact a More of this growth effect has been recorded. I would like to conclude by commenting only on one point: I see the report of the Advisory Council on Economic and Social Affairs as positive, as it has already been done in today's debate. And we also agreed in committee on this, not by a formal decision, but by the agreement of opinions, that it would be a pity if we put this report ad acta! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Trattner.]] A number of very interesting approaches are included in this report. I would like to point out that, for example, the flexibilization clause which we have already decided on, but also the anchoring of the budget control, is partly due to suggestions from this brochure. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Trattner.]] I do not know whether it is otherwise formulated, but we have realized in the spirit of what is stated in this report. There are other highly interesting things in this brochure. For example, the unproportional development of dedicated resources towards others is described, creating desires and forms of creativity that we cannot actually afford. I believe that this is important, especially when we talk about economy and expenditure stabilisation – and I am not only talking about Brussels, but also about the local conditions – because we will not find ourselves in the process of sustainable budgetary consolidation without expenditure stabilisation and massive measures in this area. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Smolle.]] That's what I'm calling myself. I therefore find a number of suggestions in this study, and I would like to very much welcome it if, within the framework of any of the House's bodies, we are always very serious about these things and are also trying to come up with common solutions. I would like to conclude by saying: The 1997 accounts are a snapshot. In the meantime, however, the trend continues, and without revealing a great secret, I would say that I assume that the 1998 accounts will be even more favourable in relation to the forecast than the 1997 accounts. After I present numbers only after I have specified them, I now say: I assume that we will have a very favourable financial statement in 1998. And this is important, because it is also about reducing deficits in the current budget in order to reduce the debt that later budgets will be burdened by appropriate interest services. I think we are on a positive course as a general government, and I am convinced that, in recent days, the key facts have become known for the volumes in which tax reform will move, it will lead to a significant but noticeable reduction. [[Abg. May. Trattner: A milky tax reform!]] No, no, no, In view of the newspaper reports, it can be seen that you have misunderstood the publications and also the political statements of the Federal Chancellor and the Deputy Chancellor! But now is not the time to discuss it. For it is legitimate that the government first becomes aware of what concrete proposals it is making to the public. [[Abg. May. Trattner: Will you do this before or after the election?]] In any case, however, there will be a substantial, budgetaryly sound and tangible discharge for the people of our Republic.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e16797	Thank you very much, Minister of State. Mr Wimmer is now on the floor. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e16821	Mr President! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Steindl, I must tell our Minister Edlinger: Today, talking about the package of 30 billion schilling in the framework of the tax reform is still a little too early. First of all, this amount, as much as I know, is not yet completely fixed in the room and is not yet debated, and second, is not quite exactly what direction the distribution should take place. On which parts of the population will be more relieved in the future, I believe that our political groups too are not entirely agreed. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The conclusion of the 1997 budget was already in the cross-examination of criticism over a long period of time. And that is why it is necessary – and I allow myself to do so – to address a few key points of this billing and to put a little into the right lot. The picture, which was drawn by the opposition over long distances today, is simply not true. I understand, of course, that the opposition in particular has a different view; this is natural and lies in the essence of the opposition. But you will still not succeed in speaking this forward-looking and successful budgetary policy, ladies and gentlemen, because the figures speak a clear language! What facts are there? First, the consolidation rate, which actually began with the 1996 budget, is consistently continued. Secondly, the horror scenarios, which were repeatedly drawn by the opposition at the time when the budget was created, did not occur. In fact, in this financial year the net deficit has been kept lower than in the forecast. The finish is 67.2 billion schilling, which is 2.67 percent, and was estimated to be as much as I know, 2.74 percent. It is known that the net deficit in 1995 was 5.2 percent, so we have halved it in the last two years. This is a success which cannot be presented differently, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I believe that this offensive policy will create scope for action which we will urgently need in the future. This scope is, by the way, also repeatedly demanded by the opposition when it comes to making money available for meaningful investments, for employment and for training. . I therefore believe that this billing process is a successful one, and we will therefore be happy to agree to this billing.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e16863	Mr Dkfm is now speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Bauer. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e16884	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] Is he here? That's all the better! Federal Minister! You know, I've always missed you since the days of the Wiener Landtag! Mr Wimmer! Federal Minister! No one agrees with the Federal Government that the deficit has been reduced compared to 1996. And no one is motivating that it has succeeded in making the federal accounts more favourable to a sensational promille than the proposal. In view of this, superficial and extremely sufficient observers will call hallelujah, a few have already done so, and another, no question! [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] But I'm telling you: If you are not extremely sufficient and superficial, you realize that there is no occasion for such pre-Christmas praises! Firstly, there was and exists in this 1997 budget as in the previous few structural changes on the expenditure side. I say 'nothing', and you can also read it in the OECD report and in the Court of Auditors' report, because you do not need to rely on the oppositionist Holger Bauer. There is hardly any real savings in terms of sustainable and therefore persistent savings in this billing or budget. Rather, you have achieved this result, which you welcome here, essentially – one could almost say: exclusively – through additional taxes, higher taxes and tax-like taxes. Mr Wimmer! If you shake your head, I recommend that you take the federal billing note, chapter 1, page 21. There you will see: in the last eight years – and not only in the last eight years, but also in the last eight years, the table will not go back – the total fiscal burden, i.e. taxes and taxes, has steadily increased, to the extent that it has achieved the highest fiscal level of the second Republic by 43.8 percent, as measured by gross domestic product. We have the highest tax and tax burden on the whole of the Second Republic! And you're proud of that? With such methods, Mrs Schmauslaberl brings together a budget consolidation if she has this opportunity! This is not an art you must be proud of! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Sigl: Wicked!]] The whole reconstruction of the Second Republic has been done with a lower overall fiscal burden than the management of this economic downturn you wanted and had to address in 1995/96! So there is no occasion at all for pride and for any special patting of the shoulder. Secondly, you did something else: You have increasingly and continuously shifted your debt economy from today to the future. If you don't believe it, I recommend you take Volume 1 to your hand again. There, on page 47, you will see under the so-called "budget-effective presuppositions" that you have constantly pumped up a total debt of 1,735 billion schilling here, and these debts or the replacement of these debts will burden the budgets until the year 2031. I say it again: There is no reason at all to hit the shoulder, to call hallelujah, or to give any other acclaims of yours as you did here. For in order to clean up a household in this way, it does not even require a mediocre accountant. I'll tell you one more thing: The next load packs may not be tied yet, but the ingredients you have prepared year after year.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e16935	The next speaker is Mr Kurzbauer. – He has the word – nomen est omen – the word.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e16956	Mr President! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Before I go into the agenda, I would like to take a brief look at the year 1995. – Professor Van der Bellen is not in the hall now, unfortunately. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: (calling from his seat) Here I am!]] Excuse me, Professor! . We know from the preliminary discussions on the budget negotiations that the re-indebtedness in 1996 would be about 150 billion schillings, and finally it was re-elected in December 1995. This new election is marked by the handwriting of the Austrian People's Party, and precisely with this new election a turnaround has been launched, a consolidation with the aim of at least 3 percent of the deficit of public budgets. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In view of the 1997 Federal Accounts, although Mr Holger Bauer is of a different opinion, we are pleased to note that our country's economic situation has developed positively. [[Abg. Parnigoni: What's not bad! That's normal anyway!]] I would like to document this with a few figures: First: Real economic growth reached 2.5 percent in the year under review. Our economy is therefore growing again in line with the development of the Union. Secondly, The unemployment rate according to EUROSTAT of around 4.5 percent is lower than half the EU average. Thirdly, As a result of moderate wage development and increasing competition The effects of EU accession have remained low by 1.3%, and we are also among those three countries within the EU that have the lowest inflation rate this year, in 1998. Fourth: Long-term nominal interest rates declined in the international equation. In September of this year, the interest rate level of 3.4 percent was again below the nominal growth rate of GDP since 1989 for the first time. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The development of the re-indebtedness of public budgets is particularly gratifying. With the Federal Government, countries and municipalities – and in my opinion a special force has been achieved – the net borrowing, which in 1995 was still around 118 billion schilling or 5.1 percent of GDP, was reduced by around 71 billion schilling to 47.2 billion and 1.9 percent of GDP within two years. Here is a special thanks to the countries and communities! [[Abg. Dr. Salzl: Thank the taxpayers!]] Through their budgetary discipline, they have contributed very significantly to this positive development, and with a re-indebtedness of around 67 billion schillings, we are among those countries that will introduce the euro in the coming year. The municipalities are also concerned with structural reforms. The breakdown of services or partial breakdowns in the area of water supply and waste water disposal will put in place measures to further relieve public budgets. Ladies and gentlemen! Despite the success of budgetary policy, further measures are needed to secure the forthcoming budgets in a sustainable way. I am thinking here of the dynamics of individual government expenditure. These must be reviewed in order to reduce the medium and long-term tax burden. The current deficit must be further reduced in order to have the scope necessary in the event of any economic collapse. In addition, if deficits are further reduced, the debt ratio should be reduced from currently 64 percent in the medium term to the 60 percent required – to name just a few examples. Finally, I should like to point out that the result of the 1997 Federal Accounts established the prerequisite for a successful stability programme. On the part of the Austrian People's Party, we will be happy to give our assent to the present federal accounts in 1997.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e17027	The next speaker is Mrs Susanne Rieß. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e17048	Mr President. Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! When I look at the 1997 federal accounts, it turns out that this coalition had even less room for action in 1997 than in the years before. What you, Mr Minister, Mr Sigl, Mr Wimmer, want to sell us as a success, really documents your defeat! In particular, I should like to point out the still exorbitant and unrestricted rising expenditure of the federal government. Not least here is the necessary trend change! [[Abg. Müller: Ha, ha!]] The government expenditure is from 754.8 billion schilling in 1996 to 832 billion schilling – that's over 10 percent! — increased in 1997, adding that you have estimated less for 1997 than you spent in 1996, namely 747.2 billion schilling. This is a turnaround, which is truly only to be seen as a wish for proposals! It is even worse with government debt compared to gross domestic product. Unfortunately, the trend continues to rise: Public debt rose from 58.6% in 1996 to 59.5% in 1997. Are we at all still eligible for credit, Mr. Minister? Should we not become better EU net recipients? Almost a quarter of the tax revenue already goes away for interest services. Assigned: The interest rate rate has declined in 1997. This results from the increased tax revenue that you have managed in 1997 and which you want to sell to us now as a success. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eder.]] In fact, however, these increased tax revenues result from the unsocial and unfair tax packages of recent years. You do not save – despite all the demands – and you do not have to. They only put the whole load on the citizens. That is the unjust and the unsocial. The Court of Auditors too has a clear outcome, and it strongly recommends that the government give the highest priority to reducing expenditure. Because there is no ordinary right to economic growth of 2.5 percent and 3.9% as in 1997. You know that, Minister. In general, it would also be necessary to discuss the valuation of the assets at the 1997 Federal Accounts. An assessment, as it takes place here, with an immediate depreciation of 50 percent per year of purchase, would be desirable for any Austrian entrepreneur. The power of statement of the federal holding account is to be regarded as limited because of these valuations – according to the Court of Auditors. Mr Minister, there would be an urgent need for a change for a more realistic assessment. You would also have an urgent need for action and an urgent obligation to finally request the final accounts of the KRAZAF, which have been outstanding since 1978. 20 years have passed, and there are no consequences for the KRAZAF regarding the failure to comply with its disclosure obligation! Minister! You neglect in the most blatant way your control duty, which you are so happy to comply with in the search for "black beer" outside the small hosts. Mr Minister, you will finally be active in the KRAZAF!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e17090	Mr Gerfried Müller came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e17111	Mr Finanzminister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! As a particularly positive result of the federal accounts of 1997 the savings achieved, which can be seen from the development of the federal deficit, is to be highlighted. It has succeeded in significantly reducing the finish. Mr Steindl has already pointed out that the primary balance of 1997 is a strong plus with 20.3 billion schilling for the first time. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: What is it? What's that? What is the primary balance?]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Edlinger.]] [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: I know, but he doesn't!]] The net deficit is adjusted to cover the supply of deposits of 6.3 billion schilling, well below the forecasted value in 1997. Mr State Secretary Out of Office! Mrs Rieß! It is very, very difficult to criticize something positive – in this I commit you. [[Abg. Meisinger: 1.8 million public debt! Very positive!]] [[Abg. Dkfm. May. Mühlbachler: How much? How much government debt? Meisinger, say it again!]] They have mentioned that the tax rate has increased last year. Last year it rose by 0.6 percent from 42.2 percent to 42.8%. But why did she get up? – It has increased because we have introduced the incorrect tax exemption for health care facilities and because we have returned these more revenue of 12 billion schillings to these groups through transfer services, because we did not want patients to be asked for the checkout. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Explain the primary balance to me! What's that?]] The fact is that Austria is still on a positive path to securing and increasing prosperity, improving the employment situation and, of course, ensuring international competitiveness. In recent years, the Federal Government, together with the Austrians, has gone a very responsible way. We have succeeded in substantially reducing the deficit which, without wishing to beautify it, has grown from 1991 to 1995 by means of revenue and expenditure measures. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: What expenditure-side measures? What did you do on the expenditure side?]] The continuation of higher deficits would have greatly reduced our financial and economic leeway and in the longer term would certainly have led to a rather unfinancing budget burden. The government parties have always pointed this out in good time, and they have also acted by not so popular measures. High house! A few more rates of tax reform: Taking account of our budgetary responsibility, the forthcoming tax reform will in particular reduce the burden on middle and small incomes. For example, the "flat tax" would be the strongest to relieve the beneficiaries of large incomes. The most important principle will therefore be the correct dosage, because no one has anything of it when the tax reform opens up holes that will have to be stopped in later years by various expenditure cuts. However, I also recognise that new ways are being taken to pursue a creative budgetary policy. We must fight against the phenomenon that, although companies achieve higher value added due to technological renewal, the contribution of these enterprises to social security is becoming increasingly low due to the reduction of jobs and the decommissioning of the basis of assessment. The solution goes – as has been mentioned several times – towards a value added levy or value-added tax. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: That would be the wrong way! That would be the wrong way!]] So we need the courage to work out new ideas and then implement them. It is only in this way that we secure the future of our country in order to stand up to international competition on the labour market, in the economy and in social policy. Finally, I would like to focus briefly on tax discipline. The tax residues in the federal accounts of 1997 are significantly lower than the 1995 figure, but still slightly higher than 1996. If tax discipline were to be as good for entrepreneurs as for the self-employed, we would have much more room for manoeuvre. It is therefore important and right to support Minister of Finance Edlinger accordingly in the measures he has announced against these growths. In this context, I personally consider it the most efficient measure to think seriously again about the increase of staff among the financial authorities. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Since the Federal Accounting Council in 1997 has exceeded the objective pursued, I would like to agree with it.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e17241	The President of the Court of Auditors has the floor to speak. Please, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e17263	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! There were a number of statements of words both in the Committee on Budgets and in today's discussion, in which the opinion was that the federal accounts should look different from what it actually looks like when it is presented to the House; changes should be taken into consideration regarding the conclusion of the federal accounts or the establishment of the federal accounts. I have already commented on the contributions to this subject in the Committee on Budgets and have also made the effort to take a historical look at what the fathers of our constitution originally wanted to achieve with the federal accounts. It was not uninteresting to see what Kelsen and the co-authors of the federal constitution held in this regard. [[Abg. Haigermoser: (a toy lamp holding in the hand) Van der Bellen has said the SPÖ wants to vote immediately and the ÖVP does not at all!]] The Federal Accounting Office shall, and this function is also, primarily serve to demonstrate whether the budgetary authorities have complied with the expenditure appropriations granted to them by the Federal Financial Act. It is therefore a matter of reviewing whether what was granted to the budgetary authorities in the Federal Finance Act has also been complied with in the course of the budget implementation or whether there are derogations in this respect. – That is the nature of the federal accounts, and accordingly it is written as well. Furthermore, in the course of the time of the National Council, but also from the other side, the Court of Auditors has made further requests to extend the federal accounts and to make other statements in them, which have also been taken up by the Court of Auditors. If we look at the federal accounts today, it will be hard to see that there is much more to it than what is stated to the Court of Auditors on its own account. In this context, I can only refer, for example, to economic conditions, gross domestic product, national income, primary balance, total fiscal burden, for some years the Maastricht calculations and also the financial conclusions: All these are things the Court of Auditors would not be obliged to hold them in the federal accounts. He does, however, because he knows that there is an interest in this because of the discussions which are being held in the committees or here in the plenary. But I don't think you should go beyond the federal accounts. It should also be borne in mind that the extent of the federal accounts has already grown very large and that, on the other hand, it is also mentioned that the federal accounts may be reduced in a number of points that one should make a compensation. I should therefore like to ask for an understanding of the fact that the extent of the federal accounts and the explanations which the Court of Auditors voluntarily gives, without having to be required by law, has already reached such an extent that one should not go further. As far as the financial conclusions of the Court of Auditors in the accounts are concerned, it is no secret that it is very cautious in this regard that it only very cautiously formulates such financial policy conclusions, and for a very simple reason: In contrast to the audits carried out by the Court of Auditors and on which it submits its reports to the National Council, the federal accounts are not based on audits. It is based solely on numerical material and on evaluations of this material, without it being based on tests of conduct, and therefore also on the very careful statements made by the Court of Auditors. However, once again, the Court of Auditors held in the accounts of the Federal Republic of Germany that it would be necessary, in future, to pay particular attention to the savings on the expenditure side. I believe that we are all in agreement on this point – the Court of Auditors, the Minister of Finance, the Government and the opposition. I think it is out of question that the efforts in the future have to go in this direction, and as far as I am concerned, the efforts by the Federal Government and by the Ministry of Finance are also aimed at this. I therefore believe that the statements made by the Court of Auditors in the accounts of the Federal Republic of Germany appear to be sufficient and that they are meaningful. That they are interpreted differently – depending on whether you belong to the opposition or to the government – is on another sheet. But I do not think that the Court of Auditors should give any further explanations that he could not give good conscience without any examinations. Mr Van der Bellen! You referred to a problem in the Committee, namely the limitation of the explanations to Chapter 52. I told you after the Committee that the Court of Auditors will accept this issue, will highlight the problem up to the plenary session and let itself be overlooked by amendments. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have actually been considering this, and I can tell you today that the Court of Auditors will drop this special arrangement for Chapter 52 from the next federal accounts and that, as with all other chapters, the Court of Auditors will also give the explanations in this regard, in the case of deviations of more than 5 million schillings. I would also like to point out that we are quite prepared to take up such suggestions from Parliamentarians, especially if this makes it possible to achieve a better say and if this does not entail an extensive burden on the federal accounts. Leave I should therefore like to conclude by saying that, if the wishes of Parliamentarians are expressed to us, we are quite prepared to take them up and also to extend the billing in this respect, but we should remember that the billing has already reached a considerable extent and that it cannot go to the riverless. I believe that with what the Court of Auditors has presented, it is possible to find out what is going on and that the power of statement of what the Court of Auditors submits in the accounts of the Federal Republic of Germany is a very high level and therefore also gives parliamentarians an information content which will allow them to vote in good faith for this federal accounts. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e17303	The next speaker is Mr Fink. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e17325	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! The federal accounts of 1997 reflect the successful work of the Federal Government and show the consolidation success. If Mr. Dkfm. As a Member of Parliament, I am really proud of this. With this federal accounts, the Fiscal Maastricht criteria were fulfilled and thus made possible the participation of Austria in economic and monetary union. In this context, I would remind you that the 1995 budget deficit was still 117.9 billion schilling. [[Abg. Haigermoser: You won't be proud for long!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: (renewing a toy lamp in height) You won't be proud for long!]] – Well, it can change a lot! At the next election, for example, it will be shown whether you are in here again at all. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] The 1996 downturn was reduced to 89.4 billion schilling and reached 2.7 percent of GDP with 67.2 billion schilling Maastricht in 1997. [[Abg. Haigermoser: (keeping the toy lamp in height) You don't get any light anyway!]] It is important to note that the deficit reduction provided for in the 1997 proposal has even been exceeded. Finally, the deficit was 796 million schilling below the pre-liminated finish. One can say, if one measures it in terms of revenue, that is 1 promill; if one measures it at the end, then it is 1 per cent. We can also call the 796 million, and we are also proud of this result. Without reserve education – 6.3 billion schilling were brought back – the end of 1997 would have reduced to 6.9 billion schilling and would be 7.1 billion schilling below the originally planned net deficit. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! They remember that the successful reorganisation of the budget and thus the integration into the European currency was only possible because the EIA forced the 1995 direction election. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Yes! The ÖVP is to blame for everything!]] [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] This course of the Austrian People's Party has proved itself very well. We export this product worth about 800 billion schilling, we will have a real economic growth of 3.2 percent, and we can record record employment. In order to be able to continue this course successfully, the tax reform 2000 is very important because it will bring about a reasonable and tangible discharge. We want to reduce tariffs, we want to favour farm transfers and the provision of pensions tax, and we want to promote the training of young people, as we did with the first year of apprenticeship. The training of young people is taxed by a 20 000 s drop-off, and of course we want to extend this to the entire period of training. Ladies and gentlemen! The negative expectations of the opposition have not taken us away from the successful path of the consistent consolidation course. The reform measures have enabled the Federal Government to obtain the necessary budgetary margin and secure Austria's economic location. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e17447	Mr Mühlbachler has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e17469	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to refer to the last Committee on Budgets and to the following points: In the last Committee on Budgets, there were two opposition requests, and it was basically believed that none of the opposition requests could be met. However, I use it for myself and for the representatives of the government parties that Dr. Kier's request – of course with certain amendments – has been received. In a request by Hazelsteiner, it was requested that the Federal Accounting Court close with 31. In May, the Commission presented a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the labelling, labelling and labelling of dangerous substances. We all know that this would have been impossible. But we have finally agreed that we will deal with the federal accounts of last year at the end of September, before the next proposal, and I believe that this is a great success. Ladies and gentlemen! We have been given guidelines from the Economic Advisory Council for the revision of the financial statements, and I believe that, as chairman, I have worked together with the representatives of the Government parties to ensure that the proposals made have at least been observed and discussed further. I would also like to say: There are things that happen over and over again and I cannot tolerate in committee. [[Abg. Gaugg: What can you not tolerate?]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen right now from the liberals! For example, Mr Mag. Trattner recommends to the Minister of Finance that he read the accounts of the Federal Republic of Germany, and I think that is a rather ridiculous sign. Mr Mag. [[Abg. Gaugg: Hold on!]] Trattner! Today, some of your requests have come from you, which I cannot take seriously at all, when I read in the 1997 financial debt report that at the time of your government participation, the financial debt, as measured by gross domestic product, was highest, namely, 5.3, 4.4, 4.4, 5.1. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] You were there, you were responsible at the time, and you took care of it at the time! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] You were the ones who financed from the family compensation fund tanks! That's how you were! That was your thing! You're not credible! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Please, don't say you don't have a past! Your past will overtake you in the future! – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e17548	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall proceed to the votes taken separately between the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall vote on the approval of the accounts for the year 1997, together with the title and receipt in 1525 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree with the draft law approving the federal accounts for 1997 to give a sign of approval. – This was decided by a majority in second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to the proposal at third reading too, to give a sign. – I notice: The approval of the federal accounts has also been carried out by a majority in third reading. We shall also vote on the draft federal law, which amends the Court of Auditors' Act, together with the title and receipt in 1541 of the Supplements. Here again, in the event of approval, I may request a sign on this matter. I note that this draft law was adopted unanimously at second reading. We shall now vote at third reading. In case of consent, I asked for a sign. – I note that the proposal will also be adopted unanimously at third reading. Finally, we shall vote on the request from the Committee on Budgets to take note of its report in 1542. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to a sign. – The notice is made by a majority. This item on the agenda is done. 14. Point Report by the Building Committee on Request 456/A (E) by Dr Volker Kier and Comrades on ensuring the immediate implementation of projected construction projects (1500 of the Supplements) 15. Point Report by the Building Committee on Amendment 457/A (E) by Dr Volker Kier and Comrades on the merger of BGV I and BGV II (1501 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e17641	We reach points 14 and 15. There is no oral reporting. I will go into the debate immediately. The first speaker is Mr Firlinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e17671	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to deal with Germany's construction, the Bundesimmobiliengesellschaft and the two Federal Building Administrations at an advanced hour. Ladies and gentlemen! You know that there is a request from Mr Kier – this is a written out old, but incompletely written, request from the Liberal Group – which proposes to merge BGV I and BGV II and thus introduce some rationalization effects. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that this would only be a half-hearted step. The Federal Building Administration I and II in the existing structure is a relic of the past and must be fundamentally reformed. To put it straight, ladies and gentlemen: A mere gathering and cleaning of some antique structures will not be enough! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am missing the privatisation element, where, of course, the privatisation element in this context can also be understood in a comprehensive sense that the Federal Property Society, the BIG, is involved. Federal Minister! You have made a number of notifications on the state of privatisation in a question that is about one year old. You have given some information on how and at what conditions with the date of application 1. In October 1997, you have been sold, and you have made some interesting observations, which I would like to take up briefly. For it seems essential to me that until the 1st century. In October 1997, some 957 apartments from the federal government stock, i.e. your resort, were sold to an average income of 9 500 S per square meter, including a 30 percent discount for the task of rental rights. If one assumes that the average housing size is about 77 m2 – and this is also the average size for the further privatisation projects – and this is the case in the future, then an interesting phenomenon arises. As of 1999, the federal government intends to sell another 1,200 apartments, as announced by the Ministry of Economic Affairs, but only a sale proceeds of 350 million for these 1,200 apartments. Ladies and gentlemen! This is an amount below 300 000 s per apartment, exactly about 291 000 s. If you calculate the square meter price, you get an amount of about 3 800 to 4000 S per square meter. Compared to 9 500 S from 1997 this is a 60 percent price fall! Federal Minister! In view of this, you have to explain to the House what criteria are actually being privatized. I would ask you, Minister of State, to present this to us very precisely and plausibly. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Because, as you know, Mr. Federal Minister, the average rental income in the old building stock of federal real estates is as far as rental properties were provided for private apartments, 18 S per square meter, i.e. 1 800 S for a 100 m2 apartment. It is therefore perfectly clear that the best and most attractive price offer of the Ministry of Economic Affairs does not seem attractive enough to a tenant to whom an apartment is offered. In this area – and most of it also concerns your predecessors – for many years a completely wrong path has been taken, because one has simply never agreed on the cheap rents of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Federal Minister! There is the real problem: In reality, the rents granted to the Federal Officials should have been raised over time to an acceptable but, in some way, market level. Then privatisation would be interesting today. However, Mr Federal Minister, I see the great danger that the few perceptive privatization approaches your ministry is doing will be in the sand. And that's actually a shame, because that's not what this Republic can afford. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I therefore believe that it will not be enough if you produce one study after another in your ministry and say: There has already been a lot of this happening, we have exploited enormous rationalisation potentials. Allow me, Minister of State, to say: One must actually do this and not just talk about it and order one study after another. Please, let's finally begin to privatize meaningfully and with an eye!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e17744	The next speaker is Mr Ellmauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e17766	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In Amendment 456/A (E) by Dr Volker Kier and Comrades on the guarantee of the immediate implementation of projected construction projects, the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs is invited to make use of all legal means in order to achieve projects already projected and financed. This request is obsolete. A total of 7.2 billion are planned for the 1998 Baubudget. All 15 major new construction projects have been started planned and are currently in construction execution. A total of around 6 billion Schillings are implemented effectively and effectively this year in Germany's high-rise construction. The 1999 budget provides total expenditure of 6.8 billion. In the coming year, 51 new construction projects and many smaller individual projects will be launched in the context of conservation work. And if you come around in Austria, you can see construction projects of the federal government everywhere. Essential additional construction capacities are not available at all. This must also be borne in mind by the liberals. The situation is therefore quite different from that presented in these applications. The resolution 457/A (E), also by Dr. Volker Kier and comrades of the Liberal Forum, on the merger of the Federal Building Administration I and the Federal Building Administration II as the first step and merger with the Federal Property Society, shows once again the centralist attitude of this party, which in no way takes account of the federal construction of our Republic. Such models, which want to achieve cost reduction almost exclusively through personnel reduction and which are justified by the need for budget consolidation, are, in my opinion, too immature and far too poor. Centralizations – this teaches us the pitiful experience of the nationalists in the 1970s – do not bring cost-effective but cost-enhancing effects. Much more targeted and better seems to me to be the procedure that Federal Minister Farnleitner chose a year ago. He has commissioned the management office Dr. Jenewein to review the possibilities of an increase in efficiency in the management of the federal building. The results of this investigation are available. Several possibilities for increasing efficiency as well as strategic ideas were formulated with the support of the employees of the German high-rise construction. Similarly, medium- and long-term objectives have been identified together with the employees. In the run-up to these investigations, the Federal Minister gave some requirements, such as debureaucratisation, deregulation, decommissioning of services, reduction of additional fees, energy savings, to name just a few. The present investigation notes that the priority is to improve the utilization and optimization of existing real estates, combined with internal administrative simplifications. The Minister has also set up a working group with five groups to implement the proposed measures. The focus should be on better use of space, deregulation, space management, modernisation of the accounting system, simplifications in cases of release and forms and so on. This reform project is already under way, Mr Firlinger! The aim is to achieve an increase in efficiency, which often exceeds the cost savings of the model based on personnel reduction and centralization. – Let’s work the affected and realize the reform project! My group cannot vote in favour of these motions for resolutions 456/A (E) and 457/A (E).
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e17812	The next speaker is Mr Smolle. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e17833	Gospod predsednik! Gospod Minister! Visoki stupid! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Minister! Allow me to comment on the statements made by my predecessor, who called the Liberals "centralists". – I mean, if one proposes administrative simplification, then one does not seek centralism, but rather a reasonable saving of superfluous bureaucracy, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] In this sense, Mr Kier's request is to be understood. However, it may be that some believe that we should set up a BGV for each district, possibly also a black and a red BGV. This would be a pleasure to some people, especially the respective directors. Ladies and gentlemen! In particular, Mr Kier's request shows the concern that public investment is slowing down. I think it would be time for projects which have already been financed and have exceeded the planning stage to be implemented quickly. In this context, I refer in particular to the realization of the TU building for mechanical engineering, whether on the plate or the aspang grounds, and to the B 301, the outer ring connection South motorway – Schwechat. Minister! It would be time for you to get in the room with your fellow minister, perhaps now over the Christmas holidays. I had the luck or the bad luck in the building committee – say: The Committee on Road Construction, and then on the Committee on the Development of our Railways, felt that the Ministers were two gentlemen from different countries and from different Federal Governments. For one has, as it were, talked about the road construction projects with a big question mark, and the other has, so to speak, spoken of the master plan with an equally large question mark and ironically. I was not quite sure whether these gentlemen were members of the same federal government. As I believe, this is the case, but it would be good if one could come up with a common plan and a common transport concept. Farnleitner and One of them could perhaps be a monument like Mr Ghega with his Semmeringbahn. Maybe it's in this direction. Minister! I would like to provoke you a little more positively. They have made a number of very courageous comments in the Committee, particularly with regard to the merger of BGV I and BGV II. They have promised that a project group will prepare a study which will take place in March. Minister! I really would ask you to hurry and present the facts to us as soon as possible. You yourself said that there was a very large potential for savings, which you were currently investigating. We would be very pleased to learn the results. Above all, we would be pleased if you would tell us immediately: I immediately perceived and realized the potential for savings. I didn't do a study and then waited, but I already saved it! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Something else very pleasing to me; I hope it corresponds to the truth, so are my notes: Minister! I ask you to correct myself, but I have listened very carefully to you, as I always do, when ministers speak, I am lucky to always sit down with the gentlemen vis-à-vis. They have made known in the Committee: I started in my ministry with 2,700 people. I assume that about 2002 I will only have more than 2,300 officials. And then you said, If I leave the ministry, it'll only be more than 1,500. In view of this, of course, my skeptical colleagues have said the same thing: You've either heard badly, or the Farnleitner is planning to outsource quantities of officials, that is, he's making a sloppy privatisation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gaugg.]] It is important, as I believe, that you explain this to me once, because if you stick to this statement, then the information that the Liberal Forum makes is that we can save 25 percent in the administration. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Gaugg: Tell me what it's all about!]] Farnleitner has said: without loss to the citizen! He said he'd looked through his releases and reduced it to a third. That's what I said: Minister! You promised, you thought: about a third. He said: No, to a third. Minister! We will be very pleased if you explain this to us a little closer. If what you say corresponds to the truth, then support It is a very important request from the Liberal Forum that we need, above all, a slimmer state. This means, of course, efficient, well-trained and well-equipped officials, modern officials, courageous officials, but not necessarily pragmatized officials! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e17899	The next speaker is Mr Müller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e17920	Mr President. Minister for Economic Affairs! Ladies and gentlemen! On the request of the Liberal Forum on the merger of BGV I and II, I would like to predict that it is undisputed that the efficiency of the Federal Property Administration has been discussed for some time now. It is also indisputable that the Court of Auditors has for years been encouraging a reorganisation of the Federal Building Administrations. It is always controversial which way is to be taken: The FPÖ wants to ruin at all everything that is not non- and nailproof, the colleagues from the Liberal Forum want to put the Federal Building Administration I and II together without If and But, the Minister of Economic Affairs vehemently opposes, as he says, the merger of completely inhomogeneous structures and refers to his reform project to increase efficiency. The fact is that, as the Court of Auditors has already pointed out, the Federal Property Administration in relation to personnel and administrative costs in relation to private and non-profit households and in terms of economic efficiency is badly cut off. However, it should not be ignored that a number of servants are not exclusively employed for the property management, but are also entrusted with other tasks. Here, when comparing directly, caution is needed so that apples are not compared to pears. Other criticisms of the Court of Auditors are that the Ministry of Economic Affairs does not sufficiently coordinate and support the management of the property. To highlight critically is in any case the large number of a total of 33 services entrusted with the property management of the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs. In any case, I support a reform, but there must be no Ho-ruck actions in the reform of the Federal Property Administration. Costs and benefits of each variant must be carefully examined and discussed before further negotiation and a solution approach is chosen. After all, this is not only about paper and money, but also about a number of people working in this property management. I don't think we should lose sight of this fact. We have no money to give to this administration either. In conclusion, I would like to address the following aspect of energy procurement: The Federal Property Administration is caring for 143 million square meters of land, 12 million square meters of land in about 11 200 individual buildings. This area must also naturally be illuminated, heated, thus supplied with energy. Energy market liberalisation is expected to lead to a significant reduction in electricity prices. I therefore expect the Federal Property Administration to make use of this open or open possibility of saving energy costs. This can contribute significantly to the reduction of public expenditure. Since the entire debate on the reorganisation of property management is far from complete, I cannot approach the LIF proposal on behalf of my group at the moment.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e17970	The next speaker is Mr Schöggl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e17991	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make a few comments on the comments made by Mr Ellmauer. If, for example, he finds that the construction industry is so well spent that we can no longer build, then I am very much in doubt about it. If he says that you see construction sites everywhere, if you go through the country and drive, then I must say that the cause of this is not, in my opinion, that so much is being built, but that nothing is done. And why is nothing done? – Because there and there the money is missing to complete the buildings in time! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! These applications provide an opportunity to address the construction industry which, as always at this time, but also throughout the year, is not particularly good at all. Since, of course, these applications, when they are over a year old, do not become more up-to-date – but this is precisely the case with the opposition applications, which we are used to anyway – it is also not quite fair to say that these applications are ultimately unnecessary. You only need to leave everything long enough, then of course it will not be quite up-to-date sometime. Public buildings are currently almost lost. In infrastructure development, we hoist breathlessly behind the needs and thus endanger the competitiveness of the economic location. But the government, ladies and gentlemen, makes announcements. We have heard that Minister One has announced 300 billion Schilling for the railway for the next few years. There must, of course, be announced again the opposite, some billion schilling for the road. In the end, however, it remains with the announcements. I found an article in the Fundus, in which at that time already – that was on the 11th. April 1996 – it was reported that the government is celebrating. There it says: "This is pumping money into the building." – But, ladies and gentlemen, he has not pumped for so long! He's been disposed of elsewhere. So it wasn't that far with the pump in the building. On the other hand, however, we do over-dimensional and over-bureaucratic devices – whether they are called BGV I, BGV II, BIG or otherwise. Of course, with these devices there is a lot of problems that are primarily reflected in the cost increases in rents in public buildings. In the budgets of recent years, for example, if we look at the cost increases in the university rooms or the school objects used by the school resort, we see that this development has, of course, disastrous effects on the budgets of these centres. We will also be very critical about this in the next budgets. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! But what happens? What happens, for example, in the military field? – The federal army is reduced and in fact restructured to the inability to use. But the army of the BGVler remains unchanged. We know that far more than 1,000 officials – 1 063 officials, according to a question response – work alone for the Federal Army. There would be a change. Let us finally pass on these buildings to the Federal Army! But you don't want that, or you better say: The officials don't want that. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The only concern is that they lose general competence, for example according to the motto: Everyone could come and manage and maintain the buildings that they used! – But what would be so bad about that? What would be so bad if the schools were managed and maintained by the school resort, the universities of science and the gender army posts from the interior? – I think that private service providers should also be used. However, it would be better – and I am thinking of the intentions of our unfortunately very difficult colleague Schöll – to finally fully and truly privatize the BGVs. In a short or long time, we will remain right on this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e18043	The next speaker is Mr Maitz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e18065	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! For many years I have known the Federal Building Administration II, which is responsible for the military buildings. The proposed merger is not new. For many years it has been discussed whether it would be useful to bring these two units together. The difference is essentially that in the overall Federal Building Administration for universities, schools and other state officials work on behalf of the Federal Government, in the BGV II for the military, on the other hand, directly federal servants. For many years there has been this discussion. Twice the boundaries are quite clear: for example, in the field of co-operation. Would the federal government be willing to take over national officials in a linear manner, or would the countries be prepared to take over the federal officials? Or is it really useful for national officials to take the military buildings, the special buildings such as airports, pilot yards, radar stations and so on into their care? I think that the way forward, the Minister Farnleitner, is the right one, namely the practical cooperation between the two units working in the central and direct Federal administration. This concerns cooperation in the construction management – the technicians and craftsmen of BGV II, for example, will naturally be used across all federal buildings for repairs and emergency measures – and the intensive cooperation of these services of the Federal Government and the Länder with the aim of creating property management with a spatial data collection for all federal buildings and properties. The top goal remains: Firstly, the optimum security of care, second, the best possible utilization of all the services entrusted with these tasks, and thirdly, the best possible economic space to save the taxpayer a lot of money. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It should also be borne in mind that there are a total of 2,300 colleagues and that some 1,000 of them alone are in the craftsmanship, that is, in the simple service. This is also to be considered in the sense of our care.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e18114	Mrs Gabriela Moser is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e18135	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! You can certainly imagine that we Greens do not simply want to realize all federal construction projects in Bausch and Bogen at the highest speed. In this respect, it is quite clear that we cannot support this request by Mr Kier, whom we otherwise very much appreciate. Because there is no blank check from our side – very short and stoned and clear – for proxying to go through everything on devil. - That's the one aspect. The other aspect is that we are not going to agree to a blind combination of different institutions at ministerial level either, because we think that an administrative structure is certainly a growing structure and therefore needs to be regrouped into an overall concept. Therefore, not only can one department be transferred to another, but a total revision would also be necessary in the field of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Then, I think we could agree. The rules here and today don't fit! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e18169	The Federal Minister is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e18190	Mr President. High house! I would like to inform you briefly that the project groups on the reform of the Federal Building Administration are working fully on the plan that the results will be available before the summer and that I am not adding anything to what I have explained in the Committee, even if the figures are sometimes somewhat mixed – but I would like to clarify this in a private body. On the comments of Mr Firlinger: One should not confuse two figures if one announces. The BIG is to be transferred 1 200 apartments for recovery. The 350 million are a budgetary advance, the end-of-the-day payment must be charged. You don't confuse these two numbers! They were also called in this form. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The second point is that the tenants who live in our buildings are, of course, treated according to rental law and that we also exploit the possibilities of rental rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e18229	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. There is no need by the rapporteur for a final word. We shall therefore proceed to the votes, and we shall vote first of all on the request of the Committee on Construction to take note of its report in 1500 of the additions. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this readmission of the report to be a sign. – This is adopted by a majority. Next, we shall vote on the request of the Building Committee to take note of its report in 1501 of the supplements. I should like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who agree give a sign. – This is also adopted by a majority. These are the items on the agenda. 16. Point Report by the Building Committee on Requests 484/A by Mr Helmut Haigermoser and Mr Comrades concerning a federal law with which the Tauernautobahnfinanzsgesetz of 6. ==References== No. 115/1969, as last amended by BGBl. No. 826/1992, amended (1502) 17. Point Report by the Building Committee on Amendment 542/A by Mr Edith Haller and Mr Comrades on a Federal Law amending the Federal Road Finance Act 1996 (1503 of the Supplements) 18. Point Report by the Building Committee on Amendment No 596/A by Mr Ing. Wolfgang Nußbaumer and comrades concerning a federal law amending the Federal Road Finance Act 1996 (1504 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e18310	We come to points 16 to 18 of the agenda, which are dealt with under one. The first speaker is Mr Haigermoser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e18334	Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! In the short term, I would like to make a few comments on the Tauernautobahnfinanzsgesetz. This is not only a local problem, but, in my opinion, the need to discuss how to limit distortions of competition in the tourism sector. I am curious about how the Salzburg Members will act in particular today in this vote, for example, Mr Leiner, who has promised the economic operators in the Flachau region to stand up for the abolition of the unjustified Maut Flachau – Flachau angle. It will be very interesting – we will then also meet in the Pongau during the discussion, not only on the occasion of the election campaign – like you, colleague Leiner, are going to act here for the other Salzburg delegates, such as Schwarzenberger, because you have promised your mayor in Flachau with letter and seal to stand up for this pressing topic. It is a fact, ladies and gentlemen, that the Zauchensee lift company was obliged, on the occasion of the construction of the motorway exit in Flachauwinkel, to carry out tolls after a certain amount of key. Until now, I have been talking to the managing director of the Zauchensee lift company – about 12 million Schilling – 11 to 12 million – have been paid over the years, and these tolls are still being removed, about 550 000 S to 600 000 S annually. Obviously a small milk cow was discovered by the ministry there, and it is not prepared to observe the promises at that time that once it has been paid out, one will be entertained about solutions in the sense of the tourism industry, the cable car industry and the population living there. Federal Minister! If, from the correspondence of Parliament, I can take note of the Lapidar sentence "Federal Minister Dr. Farnleitner did not see the slightest reason for a change in this state of law" with regard to the procedure I have quoted, then I would like to point out that this is a little or very poor! Of course you can say: What is it about me, what my predecessors once promised? - I think you should stick to that. I therefore believe that it would be necessary, if you were to reject our request today, or at least a signal, to enter into a conversation with the representatives of the cable car industry and the population, as well as with the mayors, in order to stop this unjust collection. Federal Minister! I may be able to talk briefly about a subject concerning tolls, which will soon become a problem in the future, namely the history of vignettes. We believe that the distribution of vignettes should not be taken up by the Trafiken, nor, therefore, because, as we all know - I hope you know - the Trafiken have a huge social task, because many disabled people in Austria are still in trafiks, and because the Trafiken also have a huge local supply function, especially in rural areas. [[Complaints with the liberals]] In my opinion, therefore, it is a milkmaid bill to simply make a tender and to say that the so-called "best bidder" should come to the train. They know that a national economic account should be drawn up here, in that the post until now could expect huge subsidies from the public authorities, or over-excessed phone fees, in order to achieve a competitive advantage at sites and so on. That is, we will observe very closely what interests you will be represented in the sale of the vignettes in the future, whether you are on the side of these small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who do not have it easy, namely the Trafikants, or whether you are going to jump to the post here. This also means for us that we have to ask you for economic competence, namely – according to your Sunday speeches – to do something for small and medium-sized enterprises. I think the Trafians deserved it! The problem of motorway exit Flachauwink, I am counting at least on the regional deputies, Mr. Primar Leiner. I hope that he will jump over his party political shadow and vote for the benefit of the people and not for party discipline.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e18378	The next speaker is Mr Grossruck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e18399	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to take a brief look at the request of Mr Haigermoser, Mr Böhacker and Mr Colleagues concerning the Federal Law to amend the Tauernautobahnfinanzsgesetz. Of course, it has not voted everything Mr Haigermoser has now said. Even if you leave something out, it's not quite right. The contract was concluded in 1979 when the additional distance to Flachauwinkel was created, and it was agreed that the Lift Company should pay this pre-financing in retrospect. A 10-year notice of termination has been agreed. These 10 years have expired, the lift company has terminated, and it has been agreed that, since it is a toll line, the lift company supplies 10 s per passenger car for 15 kilometres of toll. – This is a valid contract, that is valid law, and my knowledge acknowledges the lift society. I do not know that there is an official request to amend this Treaty, especially since this problem will soon be solved by itself via road pricing. [[Abg. Haigermoser: So there is also a road pricing for cars? Very interesting!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party! It seems to me that you want to make a compulsion. That's what they call forced happiness! It is grotesk to demand something if the contracting party does not or does not want it at all. [[Abg. Haigermoser: That's not true!]] This seems to me – from the current occasion, Mr Haigermoser – as if Mr Haider had yesterday called for a Christmas amnesty for Mr Meischberger, although he has only been condemned today. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! That is why you will certainly have a warmest understanding of the fact that we cannot accept this request.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e18467	The next speaker is Mr Smolle. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e18497	Gospod predsednik! Gospod Minister! Gospod chief ÖVP-jevskega cuba! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Lahko noč!]] Visoki Dom! High house! Mr President. Minister! I would just like to make a brief comment. It is rare, but in this case I believe you, Mr Haigermoser, more than your immediate predecessor. I assume that your request was a reason for the fact that the old rights were, as it were, a change in the Treaty. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Do you want to run for the liberals this time? That would be the third group.]] – But I won’t change the side because of a toad, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Do you not take him?]] Moreover, as you know, I remain the one I have always been, and that makes my life easier for me. I don't have to bend and turn, but I'm the one I've always been. A short time ago on these two requests. Mr Minister, I think it would be necessary to take this request from Mr Haigermoser in order to check whether we do not have any more such unpleasant contractual situations on our roads. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Fragment contracts are called that!]] If, in principle, we also think that less state and more private is reasonable, so if we want to finance a lot about private, then it is not unreasonable to think about whether the State is always a pleasant, good partner. Of course, the state has the law on its side and is much stronger – if you want to say so – than the private contractual partner, who, of course, cannot change the laws, but who essentially lives under the contract. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Sure!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Very well done, Smolle!]] It would be good to check whether and to what extent there may be many such "sloppy continuations". In this sense, the government parties may, if they do not agree with the request, take it for a review. In this sense, we agree with Haigermoser's proposal, but there is a negative committee report, and we will therefore not rise from the squares. Now on the question of the federal roads. As far as the question of access to our country via motorways is concerned, I believe, Mr Minister, that the request made here by the liberals is reasonable in that we should, as it were, offer the driver who is arriving from abroad the opportunity to either leave the motorway or continue on the motorway at the first departure. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: There are not so many possibilities here, because you can't turn around! But the Karl just rides the bike, he doesn't know!]] There we have to deal with two neural areas, on the one hand in the area of Kufstein – Kiefersfelden and on the other hand in Bregenz at the link Germany – Switzerland or Switzerland – Germany, where we actually force the drivers down to the federal road, and that is not the point of the whole. It would be reasonable to proceed as proposed in this proposal. I hope, of course, that this is complete. But you can complete it without further delay, if there are still any entrances affected. We also assume that we can do this without delay. In this sense, Minister, there is a lot to be done. Although these are not the central problems of Austrian road transport, there are some very unpleasant problems that the population concerned often feels to be very unpleasant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e18619	The next speaker is Mr Eder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e18641	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take a very short look at the hour ahead. I do not want to add anything to the proposal itself and to what Mr Großruck said. I'm perfectly in agreement with him. Secondly, with regard to the comments made by Mr Smolle regarding the foreign nationals, I should like to say that the Kufstein case, mentioned by him as an example, is already such that no toll is actually examined or demanded there. That is already free, and you can keep it free. We did on 19 November. Mr Farnleitner, Federal Minister for Transport, asked him to carry out an examination of the transport effects, particularly in those sensitive areas you have referred to, Mr Smolle. As a result of this study, the overall trend is that the Vignette has shifted about 1 per cent of the transport from the motorways to the federal roads throughout the federal territory. The displacement effect of 1 percent is below the average annual growth rate of road transport on the federal roads, so it is completely negligible. A much more important concern – and I am surprised that you did not also address this and ask for it – would be for us to bring the truck-road pricing up faster than planned, because it does not contradict the introduction of truck-road pricing as early as 2000. If it should not yet be possible completely electronically, then you can do so in a different form. We would therefore have much more resources at our disposal, namely around 3.4 billion schillings, than we would wait until 2001. Until then, some 7 billion schillings have been missing, and these 7 billion schillings, ladies and gentlemen, are urgently needed, especially in the area of transport in eastern Austria. For example, I am thinking about Vienna's bypasses, about the B 301 in Vienna, about the northern driveway in Vienna, about the B 3 and the B 3d. All of these are important road projects in the eastern region of Austria, especially in the area of Vienna, where the transit and the truck transits from the Czech Republic and Slovakia are increasingly reaching out to Austria and are increasingly affecting the population. Especially since we are now discussing, in the context of the enlargement of the EU, the involvement of these countries in the EU at some point, we should put up the resources in time to build these important routes for the benefit of the people of Vienna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e18681	The next speaker is Mr Nußbaumer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e18702	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Eder, I doubt that your statement is correct about 1% of the shift from higher-ranking traffic. We made a measurement in Vorarlberg – it was carried out twice – and according to this, more than 80 percent are affected by entry from Germany and transit to Switzerland. That is why I do not understand at all that the Committee has rejected this request for toll exemption and therefore the reduction of transport from the lower-ranking to the higher-level network. This rejection clearly shows how far the government, and probably the members of the government, are acting against the interests of the citizens, how little the government is trying to recognize realities, and how far the representatives of the government coalition are going to go before the government cars and get down to the vote. Because if you were to look at the situation on the spot – and I would give you an example afterwards – then you would speak differently here. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I therefore call from this point of view on once again to the members of the government to find out whether they are, in fact, continuing to impose on the affected population this unreasonable noise, these environmental and transport safety risks, or whether you do not want to create these reliefs for them in the interests of the citizens and put off these unacceptable burdens in these border areas. They would first and foremost help the afflicted citizens to help the economy, including the tourism industry and those regional operators who are suffering from the traffic jam on the lower-ranking road. We would also help the environment by reducing traffic jams, we would improve neighbourly relations, and you, Federal Minister, would not then have to bring a German vice-responsor into custody for a week, as this has actually happened. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Farnleitner.]] This was of course a blow against the tourism efforts, against tourism advertising, but also a loss of image due to the ridicule and hohn, which German media subsequently poured out on us Austrians. Ladies and gentlemen! If you do not come closer to my evidence and do not follow it, at least believe this to be our neighbor in Lindau, who launched the following initiative – I quote –: "CSU wants to achieve discharge for Lindau-Zech. The European Commission in Brussels now has a request from the CSU for consideration to be given to limiting cross-border traffic on federal road 31 in Lindau-Zech. The author of the initiative is district councillor Daniele Kraft, who also informed Prime Minister Edmund Stoiber about the immense traffic problems at the German-Austrian border at the end of August. Since the introduction of the Vignette obligation in Austria, Lindau-Zech has been overly burdened by traffic. Many drivers, like Kraft, leave the A 96 to get to Switzerland or Austria via the B 31. It is therefore necessary for States with motorway charges to allow the same use until the first exit to the State border. This proposal is supported by Mr Markus Ferber, CSU Member of the European Parliament. He forwarded the idea in the form of a request to the Commission and asked whether there were plans to relieve the border areas of the increased traffic volume according to the obligation of vignette." - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen – primarily by the ÖVP, but there are no longer very many there! You know the CSU! I will look at exactly the voting behaviour of the Vorarlberger ÖVP delegates here today! Ladies and gentlemen of the government coalition! This problem is a cross-border problem at borders that is no longer in place. Keep in mind, therefore, the effects! Therefore, do not take note of the Committee's report and allow it to approve the two Haller and Nutbaumer requests with all the advantages I have just explained. – Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e18767	The next speaker was Mrs Dr Gabriela Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e18788	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker spoke of how to benefit the environment. . I think we would be most useful to the environment if we did not reduce car traffic even further, as we are told in the three proposals. All three applications are aimed at reducing the cost of the driver: the vignette proposal, the request concerning the toll station and also the request of Mr Nußbaumer. In this respect it is quite clear that we will not agree to these requests, but that we will again call on the Minister to introduce, in accordance with our tax system – the real eco-tax system – which is really being relocated, the cost-truth in the best economic sense on the road. The introduction of this system would also benefit the economy because it would make its ways more efficient. It should finally be ensured that the really road performance-dependent mileage will also come in Austria according to the Swiss model. We no longer want to discuss details, such as the Vignette only at the first motorway drive to the border et cetera, et cetera. That's quite by now! The vignette is, anyway, just a crunch of current financial policy, because it does not serve transport policy – transport policy is a nonsense! – but only brings a lot of financial policy. Instead, we want to finally discuss how we get on the road at fair costs, so that we can make our transport system more efficient and go more towards rail. That is why we will definitely support the negative committee report and hope that you, Mr Minister, will move forward our Austrian semi-open road pricing toll system in the direction of Switzerland, which is likely to be presented to the Federal Republic of Germany, so that it will cost the economy, the government and also the inhabitants of environmental quality. That is the reason for our rejection! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e18818	The next speaker is Mr Heinz Marolt. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e18837	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! My colleagues and previous speakers Haigermoser and Ing. Nothing is added to the content. I would therefore like to take advantage of my short speaking time to point out another manko to the Tauernautobahnfinantungsgesetz, namely the current double-voting that arose from the introduction of the vignette on the one hand and the maintenance of the tunnel toll on the other. Ladies and gentlemen! Most of all, Carinthia and Carinthia are most affected. Who is surprised when German holidaymakers call the Carinthians "the Abzocker of the Nation"? "Street robbers", "Wegelager", "Abkassierer" and other accusations and expressions of similar kind must not only be allowed to fall at the toll sites, but such emotional statements by travelers must be heard mainly by innkeepers, especially when the guests arrive at the resort due to often hours of tunneling because there is not yet the second tunnel tube. Ladies and gentlemen! Do you really know the reasons for the permanent decline in guests, especially in bus tourism, which should specifically contribute to the recovery of the spring and post-season? – I will give you one of the reasons for this. For example, the bus operators are no longer ready to be asked to check out three times on a Carinthia ride: first through the Vignette, second through the Tauerntunnel-Tout and thirdly through the performance-related six groschen, which must be paid per rode kilometers on Austria's roads in the form of VAT. And if, for example, a guest group, Mr Federal Minister, I say that in your direction, for example, has to be picked up by a replacement bus, then another fourth time will be cut off, because then the vignette has to be bought a second time. The country of Carinthia has pointed out from all levels this problem and this manko, including the officials of the Chambers of Commerce of all Couleurs. It is now only the request for urgency of the FPÖ-carinthia, with which the impregnability of the double toad and its consequences are already mentioned. ==References====External links== Federal Minister! High house! I therefore urge today to take measures that will help make Carinthia more attractive as a holiday country. If you have already buried the promised tourism billions for Carinthia in the Semmering Base Tunnel, then at least on your arrival in Carinthia you should get an advantage for Carinthia! I therefore call for a refund of the Tauerntunnel toll for Carinthia, while at the same time compensating for the loss of sales, for example, by those who consider Carinthia only as transitland to the south!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e18877	The next speaker is Mr Karl Freund. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e18895	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to make a few comments on the motorway vignette on the agenda item on the Federal Road Finance Act. According to a resolution of the National Council, the Minister for Economic Affairs has submitted an examination of the transport effects on particularly sensitive routes in connection with the introduction of the high-level road network vignette. In the first place, it is important to establish to what extent the Vignette transport relocations are caused from the motorway to the secondary road network. It seems interesting in this analysis that there have only been very minimal shifts, only about 1 percent. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Further transport investigations may show whether the first year of the Vignette will be followed or whether, in exceptional cases, new measures may have to be considered. Of course, toll exemptions would have been correct. Unfortunately, there was no agreement from the coalition partner SPÖ. It should be noted that no price increase is planned for the vignette. Finally, budget resources are also provided for the maintenance of motorways in the context of mineral oil tax. In 1998, the Minister of Finance collected 34.5 billion Schilling mineral oil tax, and I believe that he would also be obliged to co-finance our motorways because I do not think the driver can be asked to pay the cash. It simply has better transport links and better roads to it! As regards road pricing, Mr Eder, who wished that this system would be introduced in Austria as soon as possible, I would like to say: The preparations have already gone a long way. I cannot imagine that we are going to introduce this system alone in Austria. I think that its introduction is only possible if other countries, especially the Federal Republic of Germany, follow. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Estimated Minister of State! In this context, I am pleased that the renovation and extension of the West motorway will begin. This expansion alone requires 6 billion schilling, and it is particularly necessary that this road be rehabilitated and further developed. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Now comes the final sentence!]] High house! I believe that improvements have been made precisely because of the introduction of the vignette. As a result of these revenues, we can achieve important measures in the motorway sector and put in place further measures. I hope that we will get the support of the entire House. – In this sense, thank you very much!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e18937	The next speaker is Mr Kaipel. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e18966	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! For good reasons, we have rejected the request of the Freeman to make exceptions to the obligation to grant Kufstein. There is no doubt about it in the room. Kufstein has particular transport policy problems, and applicants are also right to demonstrate that the A 12 will be avoided by some of the road users who are avoiding low-ranking roads. The reason for this is not the vignette, but the generally difficult transport situation in Tyrol. There is no established link between the vignette and the shift. That is why we cannot follow this request. If the applicants claim that a large majority of foreign road users are not willing to solve a vignette, then I have to say that this claim is not evidenced by anything. There is no doubt that exceptions to Kufstein would be conditional on justice because of exceptions to other areas, and that would mean that the vignette system would become pointless and the financing would also be impossible. We know the report by the Minister for Economic Affairs on the transfer of traffic after the introduction of the vignette which we have ended in committee. He strengthens us in our acceptance. We have heard the numbers, and these speak a clear language: A shift is only very, very small. In the first quarter of 1998 there is no such influence. There are admittedly two deviations in regional areas with regard to A 14 and A 12, where there are 11 percent and 3 to 7 percent respectively of relocations. However, the examination of the multi-loaded federal roads has shown that the load is comparatively not threatening and that the accident figures have not increased either. Experience gained by long-standing foreign toll operators shows that a pendulum movement occurs in the event of a re-introduction, but that after the first phase of the rejection a rescheduling is rescinded. All in all, the report does not allow for dramatic and exaggerated conclusions. That is why I should like to conclude by saying that the Liberals' request does not address the problem.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e19002	The next speaker was Mr Feurstein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e19023	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Nußbaumer tried to give the impression here that the representatives of the Federal State of Vorarlberg were not aware of the problem in the area of Bregenz. To this end, I would like to say: We are well aware of this problem. However, this proposal and the report do not focus on Bregenz, but rather on a whole list of different sections of the motorway. [[Abg. Ing. Nutbaumer: Please submit an amendment!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We cannot accept such a request because the Minister's report has clearly shown that this is not a problem that concerns Austria as a whole, but a problem which is essentially limited to two points. Ladies and gentlemen! I say quite clearly to you: We have entered into negotiations again, and we will solve the problem. But we really do not have to be influenced by such haneble requests, Mr Nußbaumer. Your request does not solve the problem of Bregenz in any way, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e19059	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. That is why we come to the vote, and we are voting initially on the request from the Building Committee to take note of its report 1502 of the additions. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to give their consent to this, to give a sign in this regard. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also vote on the request of the Building Committee to take note of its report in 1503 of the supplements. I should also like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval give a sign. – This report will also be taken note of by a majority. Finally, we are voting on the proposal from the Building Committee to take note of its report in 1504 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a sign on this point. – This request was also approved by a majority of the National Council and thus decided. Thank you, Minister of State. 19. Point First reading of the motion for a resolution (Doc. Dr. Heide Schmidt and comrades concerning a federal law with which the Federal Law on the Rules of Procedure of the National Council (Regulatory Law 1975), BGBl. No. 410/1975 as amended, as amended
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e19123	We are now entering the 19th century. Agenda item. I call the applicant, Mrs Dr Schmidt. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e19145	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I know that you know this topic both inside and outside and that you feel that you no longer have to think about it. They have cut off this issue, in particular the Members of the Great Coalition, and they believe that it would have cut off everyone else. I think this is a mistake because control instruments are part of ensuring the rule of law. That is to say, it is a serious issue that cannot be simply pushed aside. I believe that parliamentary control should be at the heart of these control instruments. Parliament has several control instruments. Mrs Krammer will start working in one of these control instruments shortly. The People's Procuratorate is such an instrument. The Court of Auditors is such an instrument. We have questions, we have control committees, and we have the opportunity to set up investigation committees. As these control rights are dealt with, there is a pitiful development, as far as the instruments are concerned. You know that we have only recently discussed how, for example, the Instrumentarium People's Procuratorate is equipped. I repeat it, even if you may be nervous about it, because I want it to be recorded in the Minutes, that there is an opposition party dealing with these legal instruments, even if this is perhaps not popular. You are increasingly eroded by the control instrument People's Procuratorship by more and more dispensing. Although the majority of the federal government remains stable, the Court of Auditors is able to control it, but the public prosecutors do not let you control it. They want to remain under themselves by giving only the three parties most strongly represented in Parliament a right of proposal at all. It cannot be an expression of a serious need for control of how you produce these instruments, and I deliberately say 'do justice' so loosely, because this impression has been made. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The questioner's right is similar to the questions we can address to the members of the government on a written or oral basis. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we often have to make parliamentary questions because the answers are either inadequate or not, and because you are trying only to fulfil a duty exercise. This control instrument is also clearly perceived by you as a nuisance. The way in which the control committees are handled in this Parliament is at all a chapter in itself. I only need to remind you of what the head of state Klasnic did last when she let it go through and supported it when her officials thought that they would not even have to speak and answer the parliamentary control committee. It did not even find it necessary to give an answer to a letter from the President of the National Council. And when the answer came, she spoke a clear language, namely: I am, and you won't be able to look into the cards! In all this, we see how the control instruments are being taken less and less seriously by the rulers, be it the majority here in Parliament who then put the government, or whether it be the majority in the countries. And the last instrument, which one should still think is that it is a core area, namely by clarifying the political responsibility of the members of the government, so that one cannot come right away with a distrust proposal, but before it can clarify things in order to avoid similar abuses in the future, which one suspects, - namely, the committees of inquiry, are torpeded by the majority in this House for years. I would remind you that we have therefore changed the rules for the examination committees in order to be able to put the argument of the fair procedure really seriously on the table. For it is true that the original committees of inquiry in recent years have not only led to some unfairness but also to party-political small money. The opposition parties have worked on new rules of play. After everything was under the roof and the subject, however, you have cut the matter off, have meant that more is not needed, and you are not even ready to talk about the question of minority rights. I would remind you that the desire for a committee of inquiry in connection with the murder of three Kurds has moved the public for many months, especially because a German court has found that the bloody trail has moved from Vienna to Germany. So we did not talk about it from any party political point of view at the time, but it was actually about responsibilities and political interrelations and it was about the backbone of our country towards other countries. We were not allowed to question this backbone until today, and therefore there is a danger that, when a similar situation occurs, similar things will happen again. At that time most of the media in that country and most of the observers of the political scene agreed that this should be a classic case for an investigation committee. They have, however, refused to do so. Then there was another case – the Minister of Economic Affairs has been sitting on the government bank until recently – in which it was again about human life, in a completely different context, but it was again about that the violation of the supervisory obligation might also be in a causal relationship with the death of people, but at least the neglect of the supervisory duty is a serious suspicion moment on the table. And it was also a question of determining which links might have deliberately led to this violation of the supervisory duty. In this case too, many agreed, even in the government parties, that this would be a classic occasion for a committee of inquiry. However, the majority in this House has been blocked, and many who voted against have voted against it. You might have been very happy at this point if a minority, that is, Members who do not necessarily belong to their group, could have set such an instrument in motion. However, it has not been agreed to by the Coalition Council. So you are not prepared to change the rules of the game, and we have therefore requested a first reading on this proposal because we believe that this issue should not be dealt with because we believe that the rules of the game must be changed in such a way that, as is quite possible in other countries, a minority of this House can also set up a committee of inquiry. I remind the two current government fractions of the times when they were in the opposition. I do not want to polemise at all now and say that these times could come back for you, but it is really nothing to be ruled out! I therefore ask you to look at things from this point of view, how and with what instruments you could control government work in such a case, if you do not grant this right to a minority. It works in Germany! Why not in Austria? I therefore call on you to think about it and, if we are ready to discuss it in committee, perhaps take your blockade so that we can come to an amendment whereby either one quarter of the Members will have such a right, or perhaps even, as we would wish, all Members in two fractions. We are prepared to allow even one of the variants, and we also have a filter installed by not being able to apply for more than two committees of inquiry, i.e. if two are running, a third is not possible at all. You see: Destroying – how You might think it – or only haphazard can't be implemented at all. – I ask you to think about it!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e19231	No further words are available. That is why the debate is closed. I agree with Mrs Dr Schmidt's motion for a resolution (908/A) to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure for further discussion. 20. Point First reading of motion 925/A by Dr Martin Graf and Comrades concerning a federal law on the promotion of young people's concerns (Bundesjugendförderungsgesetz)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e19267	We're coming to the 20th. Agenda item. I call on the applicant, Mr Graf, to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e19292	Mr President. High house! Late at night another youth theme: I am very glad that we are also doing a first reading on this subject relatively quickly. We have just introduced this paper recently. I think it is necessary for us to put youth promotion on legal feet, and the wishes and desires in this direction go across all political groups. I would remind you that there is a petition tabled by the Socialists, and Mr Tegischer also supports the fact that, throughout the country, uniform youth promotion provisions are finally put into effect or implemented. And Mr Amon, as a youth speaker of the ÖVP, also takes the same line. I believe that there is quite a uniform will for the smaller opposition parties too. There has always been only an initial inflammation. That is why we have tabled this request, and I think it is even a rather good one, which is quite discussive. I am already looking forward to the discussions. I have heard that at least we are guaranteed that the Constitutional Committee will discuss it. For for more than a year, there has been nothing going on in the Family Committee, he does not even meet again. That is why I would prefer to discuss a proposal from the Constitutional Committee before it is not discussed at all. I think one can be quite sure of one point or another of shared opinion. But if one is serious about this issue, then one will find a compromise or consensus between the political groups. We have once made a definition of youth organisations, which are to be anchored in an appropriate youth advisory board, and we can certainly argue about the figures. However, I believe that this is not the problem of a first reading, but that it can also result from the Committee's deliberations. Today we have heard from the Chancellor that the most modern and effective form of Presidency activity is the rotation principle, similar to the one in the EU with a troika. We have taken this into account in this context, and there is, as it were, even the chancellor right to have the same rights as the small ones in the presidency. That was taken into account, as I said. The tasks are defined. In principle, support is limited. We are on the ground that there should be only project funding in the form of project reimbursements or grants. However, no one, as you say, should be allocated basic funding, which is ultimately little to no understandable. We have also taken this requirement into account in our understanding. Finally, the conclusion of a promotion contract is intended to lay down rights, obligations and measures in the event of non-compliance with the provisions. It is also open - and we do not want to restrict this - that there should also be a portfolio on the part of the Ministries for this purpose - that there should be a separate funding by the Ministries in order to perhaps promote some additional project faster or more targeted. All this is not excluded from this request. It is essentially a slender template with 21 paragraphs, which is easy to understand and quite comprehensible to everyone. The essential moment – and I believe that this is a legitimate concern, which has also been expressed here in the House of Commons over and over again here – is in fact that one is going to get rid of this unwarranted federal youth ring, which is only a funding organization that is not comprehensible, which is arbitrary, undemocratic, in which the law does not operate, but rather the arbitrariness of the youth organisations represented there. I would remind you that this Federal Youth Foundation has so far rejected youth organisations from political parties, not only political youth organisations, but also non-political ones, although they would have the right to be there. The Liberals' Youth Ring has never been included there despite the request, which I believe is questionable and why the Minister should have intervened for a long time, in the form of a commitment to youth promotion. But even the SudetenGerman youth has not been included three times in spite of the request. This shows that it is necessary to do something about this, and this proposal is appropriate to initiate the discussion. I hope it all participates in it, it is really everyone interested to do something meaningful for youth and for youth organisations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e19347	The next speaker is Mrs Brigitte Tegischer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e19368	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning of my remarks, I would like to say something basic about youth promotion. It is important for us not only to finance youth organisations, but to take into account all the wishes and proposals of many young people, including outside youth organisations, and above all to enable young people to participate actively in political events. An important concern – Mr Graf has already done it – is the national harmonisation of the provisions on youth protection. It is not at all clear why different provisions apply to the same age groups. This issue is still national. However, we would really like young people's issues to be dealt with throughout the country, because protection provisions are very likely to be enshrined in many laws. Further efforts, which are currently being discussed by us – including cross-party parties – are related to the co-determination and co-decision of young people. For example, the possibility should be considered that young people 16 years of age or perhaps even younger will have the opportunity to sign, not only persons aged 19 and over. Our efforts also apply to the promotion of personality development, criticism, co-determination and co-decision. I would like to take one point out of the FPÖ proposal because we are very much opposed to discrimination: Paragraph 2 of your application states that young people are nationals of Austrian nationality. I think it is important that foreign young people are also integrated here, because we are always trying to integrate these into our society. The fact that the Free Youth ring has not been included in the Bundesjugendring is likely because certain points have not been complied with in the Statutes. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Wrong! Wrong!]] Their efforts to belong to the Bundesjugendring are not necessarily the greatest, because my knowledge is that the last request of the Freedom Youth Ring is at least three years behind. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Please! Should I perhaps make a request every three years?]] But I'd like to be taught if that's not the case. According to the special guidelines drawn up by the Ministry of Youth in agreement with the Ministry of Finance, there are not only incentives for youth organisations, but also, as requested by you, project funding as well as free promotion. In 1997, 400 to 500 organisations or free youth groups had the opportunity to present and submit their projects. Finally, I would like to say that it is our intention to raise young people's concerns so to speak, in constitutional status, when a youth advisory board is to be installed at the Federal Chancellor's Office to enable young people to express their concerns at the highest level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e19436	The next speaker is not Mr Graf, but Mr Amon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e19458	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! If today we introduced the first reading of this by the FPÖ Discussing the law on youth promotion – Mr Graf said that he lacked the initial inflammation: I may have given the initial inflammation of the proposal made by me in August to you that you then submitted this request in November – then the reason is to consider not only how to organise related youth work in the future, but also how to promote this related youth work in the future and how to achieve such a way of representation. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: We did that last year!]] In fact, of course, the Austrian Federal Youth Ring, as it exists today – and there are a lot of personalities in this House who have served in this Austrian Federal Youth Ring as chairman or in other functions – is not quite contemporary, because of course it is a discrepancy that this body decides on the one hand who may be a member of the Federal Youth Ring and on the other hand also decides on the distribution of the funds. This means, of course, that any inclusion of other organizations would automatically have to deal with a reduction in own resources, and this creates a certain problem in handling. Therefore, it makes sense to think about putting it on legal legs once and not, as it is currently the case, to leave it in the form of an association. I therefore believe that the suggestion that comes from the liberals in the form of this request is not so bad, even if one can be very different in detail here. It is therefore also necessary to negotiate this in detail. For example, in the Statute of the Young People's Party, we have included the condition that there must be people who have their food point in Austria – not necessarily Austrian citizens – who can only be promoted here. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: EEA!]] So there are certain differences here. Nor can it be that, as your proposal suggests, youth representation is a matter for the Ministry of Youth, but the youth organizations should naturally take administrative action for themselves. In the approach, however, this idea is certainly correct. I would, however, like to break a lance for the related youth work. I believe that with excessive project funding, as we have it at present, we really do not do a good job for the related youth work. As a young ÖVP, for example, we have 1 400 local groups throughout the federal territory. If I were to charge each local group as my own project, I would have to calculate an enormous number. So that can't be it. We therefore believe that interconnected youth work is something other than project-oriented youth work, which can be done in associations. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Zweytick.]] This is all to be discussed, and we will do so in committee. I therefore believe that we will certainly come to such a law on youth promotion, by which we on the one hand put youth promotion on legal legs and on the other hand also give the youth representation a corresponding contact, which it now does not have in the form of an association such as the Austrian Federal Youth Council, to the sufficient extent. However, if we put youth support on legal legs, there will be such a contact person. In this sense, I believe that it is an interesting proposal. We shall endeavour to reach a common position, and I hope that we will find a broad majority in this House.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e19513	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e19534	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The speeches of the speaker and the speaker of the government parties give us hope – and I hope that this will remain so and is not only due to the time of day and the fact that it is a first reading – that we will jointly continue to take an important step in terms of the important concerns of the reorganisation and also of the legal organisation of youth work and that we will be able to discuss this request very intensively in committee. That this is necessary has also been confirmed by the previous speakers. We note that the importance of interconnected youth work, as important as it is, is increasingly losing in the awareness of young people, as the traditional political parties have less and less direct access to young people. When I was still the guardian of our youth organization, there was already a youth study that came to the conclusion – and I think that has not changed so far – that only 4 percent of young people – 4 percent, colleague Steindl! – they would be willing to cooperate actively in one of the existing political parties – very probably also with you! [[Abg. May. Steindl: With us the percentage is higher!]] I know the number of members of your boy ÖVP, too! To the extent that it is no longer so important in the federal states to be a member of the Young ÖVP if you want to go to a discotheque because you can drive by car elsewhere, to the extent that you have also lost to members. Nor should it be the sense of a youth organization to be a member in order to have access to leisure activities. However, the 4 percent mentioned above should be an alarm signal for all of us and also an order to put this also political youth work on a new stand. The Bundesjugendring already addressed today could or should actually be an umbrella of the most important youth organizations. We know, however, that it is no longer taken seriously at all. There are hardly any initiatives on the Bundesjugendring, with which measures to improve the situation of young people would have been put into practice throughout all associations, but it is very easy to distribute the budget as positively as possible – that is to say, positive for the individual organisations. Mrs Tegischer! They meant that the Freedom Youth ring was not included because there were probably problems with the statutes. . I was one who then submitted the request for inclusion in the Bundesjugendring, and I can tell you that we met all the criteria. The procedure had already been completed. As a youth observer, I had to put a hearing in the Federal Youth Ring. That's all right, too. We have only had the problem of some day-political debate at the time, and then we have suddenly demanded that the youth organization which wants to be taken up and that the supervisor be distanced from its own party, then one will accept it. If he doesn't, he won't be taken in. This was the criterion of the Bundesjugendring, a youth organization which covers at least 10,000 members, in its organization, which up to now is the only umbrella association. If that is the criteria under which youth work is made in a youth organisation for all Austrian young people, it is clear that there is an absolute need for reform here! I really hope that we will bring the positive spirit of today's debate into the committee and that we will be able to meet the interests of young people, not of party politics, but of democratic interests, and will also put youth work on a new, better and forward-looking basis through the proposals we have made in this law.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e19570	No further words are available. That concludes the debate. In agreement with the applicants, I accept Amendment 925/A to the Constitutional Committee. 21. Point Report of the Main Committee on Reimbursement of a proposal for the election of a member of the Public Prosecutor's Office (1557 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e19606	We'll get to the 21st. Agenda item. There is no need for reporting. I would like to point out that the former popular lawyer is allowed to do so. Evelyn Messner, with effect from the end of this year, has relinquished its function and the National Council has the task of making a member named for the rest of the term of office. The relevant provisions in Article 148g of the Federal Constitution, which are relevant for the election of a member of the Public Prosecutor's Office, are known. The main committee has discussed this matter and submits the following request: Proposal from the main committee of the National Council "The National Council wants Mrs. Dr. Christa Krammer with effectiveness from 1st century onwards. For the rest of the term of office, January 1999 will be elected a member of the Public Prosecutor's Office." There is no mention of words to this effect. I have only one request. Therefore, if no objections are raised, I will, within the meaning of § 87 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure on this motion for a resolution by standing up and staying in office. Is there any objection? – That's... [[Abg. Dr. Khol: No!]] [[Call the Greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Yes!]] Mein Ladies and gentlemen, there is a Rules of Procedure. There is only one election proposal, and § 87 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall read as follows: "If there is only one election proposal, the President may, on a proposal from the President, refer to it in accordance with § 66 para. 1 or 2 – i.e. by standing up and sitting down – will be voted ". However, if an objection is raised, it shall remain with the voter in the election." That's why I'm asking if anyone's raising objections. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Yes!]] - Good. [[Abg. Dr Kostelka: But, Mr President, it has already been denied that there is no objection!]] No, it has not yet been deunified. If someone wishes to vote, we will do so in a democracy, even if it costs time. I can't help it. The "yes" of the objection was clear. [[Unrest in the hall.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You have heard Mrs Petrovic's objections to the election by standing up and sitting. The vote shall therefore be taken by a vote. To be used are the green ballots, which are located in the drawer of the MEPs' seat and bear the impression of "vote for elections without constituencies". Only those official polls can be used for the election. I would ask those Members who voted in favour of the main committee's request in 1557 to write on the 'Yes' vote, those who are against the request to write 'no'. It is not possible to propose other names because this is regulated in the Constitution. After completion of the voting papers, they must be thrown into the urn provided. I now ask Members to fill in the voting papers accordingly and to put them in the urn after calling for a name by the scribe. I ask Mrs Parfuss to begin with the name call. Mrs Rosemarie Bauer will replace her later. Please, Mrs Perfuss.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e19730	Thank you, Mrs. Writer. I note that the vote has ended. Please carry the urn to the benches and quickly count. [[The responsible officials of the House shall make the number of votes.]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e19760	In the meantime, I have announced that in today's sitting, self-employed applications 980/A to 999/A have been tabled. Question No 5344/J to 5452/J has also been received. Finally, Mr Petrovic and Mr Haigermoser have been asked to the President of the National Council.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e19784	I am now interrupting the vote-listing session.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00154_d7e19808	I will resume the interrupted session and announce the results of the vote or the results of the election: 145 votes were cast. 140 votes were valid. The absolute majority of valid votes are therefore 71. 134 "Yes" votes and 6 "No" votes were made. [[Lively applause and bravo! reputation.]] Thus, Mrs. Dr. Christa Krammer with effect from 1. ==References====External links==* Official website I should like to extend my warm condolences to the congratulate that has just been expressed. That's what we've done at this meeting. The next meeting of the National Council, which serves business communications and allocations, I call for today at 0.38 p.m. This meeting is closed.
