ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00111_d7e2021	Ladies and gentlemen! I can warmly welcome you all and open the 111. Meeting of the National Council, based on a sufficiently supported request under § 46 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure. The official protocols of 109. Meeting of 25 March 1990 ==References== Meeting of 26. They are considered approved by the Parliament's Directorate. Members Mentil, Rosenstingl, Dr. Salzl, Dr. Ofner, Lacner, Rossmann, Mag. Schreiner, Böhacker, Amon, Ing. Maderthaner, Dr. Leiner, Fink, Horngacher, Mag. Kukacka, Dr. Schwimmer, Leikam, Vergestnitsch, Eder, Tegischer, Müller, Dietachmayr and Perfuss. President's speech on the occasion of the 60th anniversary. Anniversary of the "Connection" of Austria to the "German Reich"
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00111_d7e2057	Ladies and gentlemen! The events that culminated on the very day 60 years ago in the extermination of Austria from the European map, which led to the loss of Austrian ownership for more than seven years and which we want to share today's memory, are known to you. After an Austrian federal government, weak for many reasons in the first weeks of 1938, had failed to withstand Hitler-Germany's pressure rising from day to day, and the desperate attempt to carry out a referendum on the preservation of Austrian independence in the last minute under the massive pressure of Germany had also been cancelled. On March 1, 1938, the German troops in Austria were welcomed by parts of the Austrian population. ==References== March 1938, exactly today 60 years ago, the Constitutional Law – or in Austria Federal Constitutional Law – was passed on the "Reunification of Austria with the German Reich", which Adolf Hitler put in place two days later at Heldenplatz in Vienna, to talk to that famous and well-known sentence about the entry of his homeland into the German Empire. This was the so-called connection of Austria to Germany, and it began that bloody mistake through history, which was characterized by violence, war, terror and by the almost factory destruction of Jews and which had to be paid with millions of dead, with a Central Europe in ruins and ruins, but also with shame, sorrow and bitterness in the hearts of aber millions of survivors. The message of these events for the future of our country and for a common policy can only say: no to hate, Yes to democracy, No to racism, yes to human rights, no to grieve inability, and Yes, to a common, peaceful European future. Ladies and gentlemen! I would ask you to remember the tragic events of 60 years ago in a minute's silence in the House. [[Those present rise from their places and spend some time in silent remembrance.]] – Thank you many times. [[Those present take their seats again.]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00111_d7e2122	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00111_d7e2400	The desire of the green club lies with me according to § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, the written question put at the beginning of the sitting 3835/J by Mrs Ing. Langthaler and comrades to the Lord Federal Chancellor on nuclear failure of the Federal Chancellor regarding border nuclear installations, EU nuclear policy and nuclear weapons freedom of Austria. The urgent request will be carried out at the earliest three hours after its submission, i.e. at 3 p.m. Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00111_d7e2425	I would also like to say that Mr Dr Kier has asked the Justice Committee to report on the application 705/A concerning a federal law on liability for nuclear damage, nuclear liability law, a period of time until 14. ==References== The motion for a resolution will be put to the vote in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure after the end of the negotiations. There is no agenda. Since the urgent question can be called at least at 3 p.m. to carry out the distribution in written form and to allow preparation for the negotiations, I am now interrupting the sitting by 3 p.m. After resumption of the meeting, the urgent question will be dealt with. The sitting was suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 12.08 a.m. and resumed at 15.02 a.m.)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00111_d7e2464	Ladies and gentlemen! I'll start the interrupted session again. Request for urgent procedure of Deputies Ing. Monika Langthalerand comrades to the German Chancellor concerning the German Chancellor's nuclear failure in relation to border nuclear installations, EU nuclear policy and freedom of nuclear weapons in Austria (3835/J)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00111_d7e2500	We come to the urgent discussion of the written question 3835/J, which has now been received by all the Members, so that reading by a writer is not necessary. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00111_d7e2769	On the grounds of the question, Mrs Ing. Langthaler's word. Your speaking time is 20 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00111_d7e2790	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== In March 1998, the time limit for environmental impact assessment for an intermediate storage, namely a nuclear mill, ended in Dukovany. Dukovany is not very far away, neither from Vienna nor from the state border. Dukovany is 90 km from Vienna. Dukovany is 35 km from the Lower Austrian border. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: We know that! Landland elections in Lower Austria!]] The project has been known for many years. I would like to say to all the Members who are already practicing themselves in interlocutory calls concerning Lower Austria: They can trust us very much in competence, in possibilities and perhaps also in influence, even in this application procedure, only to the extent that we convince the Czech Government that the time limit for the application of the EIA is currently ending, our influence does not go. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: That's also wrong!]] The fact is that we have known for years that this project is to be extended. In 1992 the first part was built or planned for 600 tonnes. At that time, Environment Minister Rauch-Kallat objected to this project from the outset. But a short time after that, it was known that this nuclear mill should be extended to 2,000 tonnes. It is also evident that this has been known for a long time. I quote from an APA report of 11. February 1997: Minister for the Environment Bartenstein takes a position on the planned extension of the Dukovany interim camp. In this context, Bartenstein speaks of a breach of Austria and announces appropriate initiatives in the event that this project is implemented. – The project was not reactivated in 1997, but now, 1998. We have, together with the International Civil Society, tried to obtain as many signatures as possible in order to raise objections as a Republic of Austria with the entire population in the process of this nuclear waste camp and to take part in the party. Mrs Prammer! Today, in an opinion on both the radio, the "Mitagsjournal" and the Austrian Press Agency, they pointed out that Austria, as a sovereign state, of course, does not have the right to participate in a national EIA procedure of another sovereign state. That's just wrong! I am surprised that you do not know that; I do not know whether this actually corresponds to your knowledge level or whether this message may not be correct. I would like to say the following: In 1972, at the major environmental conference in Stockholm, certain principles were adopted. It is well-known that a neighbouring country, if it feels threatened by a project, is entitled to set up appropriate initiatives at international level. This principle has so far been applied in many places in the world and has led to a convention, the so-called Espoo Convention, which has ratified Austria, but which has not yet been ratified by enough states to be valid, but which, of course, is nevertheless applicable, especially because the Czech Republic has a national EIA law which allows the neighbouring states to obtain party status in the proceedings. What do you think of procedures such as Nagymaros and Gabcikovo? – Of course, they have been based on precisely these international regulations. Of course, Mrs Prammer and Mr Bundeskanzler, there are the legal requirements – if you want – to be able to act not only politically, not only diplomaticly, but also legally. We miss this from you, and therefore this special meeting and this urgent request! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Federal Chancellor! As your predecessor has repeatedly pointed out, Austria's objective is to create a nuclear-free central Europe. I suppose you'll say that again today. But I have to reply to it in a moment: We just don't believe you anymore! It is not enough to turn at regular intervals either to the press or to the Austrian Parliament and to say again and again that the Austrian Federal Government is working on the objective, which means that there are no nuclear power plants in Central Europe. So far, you have not let this happen. I would like to give you some specific examples. First example: Dukovany. It is not only about the planned and current nuclear mill, which Austria has not taken any initiative at all, but only about promises that: You want to write a letter in the next few weeks – which in my view is far from enough. There is also an existing nuclear power plant, a Dukovany nuclear power plant – I would recommend everyone to drive there and look at it; I myself was there a few times – which alone had 76 incidents in 1995; that was three times more than 1992. These incidents were serious in six cases. – These are figures from the security report on Dukovany; You can therefore check it at any time. The planned nuclear mill – including studies – represents a high safety risk, not only for the population in the Czech Republic, but also for the population in Austria. We have had appropriate safety studies and risk analyses prepared. On the one hand, because of the situation of this nuclear waste camp, which is only 8 kilometres away from an airport, on the other hand, but also due to the planned technical conditions, this camp poses a great safety risk; a security risk that is greater than the threat ever posed by Chernobyl, a security risk that would lead to greater stress in an accident – which was calculated by various scenarios – if one estimates it conservatively than the Chernobyl accident. A second example next to Dukovany is Temelin: an infinite history of Austrian promises, an infinite history of "eventual offers" by the Austrian Federal Government. – To date, nothing specific has happened, and there would be enough money for money at European level, such as the EURATOM Fund, which represents a fund of at least 50 billion schilling for loans for nuclear power plants; Loans and liability frameworks made available by the Member States. Of course, as a member country of the European Union, Austria could work towards a directive change to the extent that it is possible to finance alternative projects to nuclear power plants, exit concepts, rather than just to see how Temelin is being built, and to say: Well, we've tried, we've been making press releases again and again! – But it remains. Third example: Mochovce. Federal Chancellor! You have just mentioned Mochovce as an example of you being active. They have referred to the fact that there will soon be a second walk, a so-called walk-down number 2 in Mochovce. To this end, we must insist on a number of things: First point: The Greens are of course in favour of the setting up of the foundations of Austrian and international scientists on the ground. However, this does not change the fact that, following the last visit, it took two years until a report is available, because Slovakia has been delayed forever, and has been further developed, that the first block will be completed and will be in operation soon, and that perhaps the first block will be in operation for a long time until you, Mr Bundeskanzler, have received the report at all. Your Commission or the Commission, initiated by you, will work out. That's just too little! It is important to collect data. It is important to send international scientists there, but this measure will not alter the fact that Mochovce is going to the network. You already have to put more political and diplomatic pressure behind it so that the Slovak government actually thinks about it! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Second point to Mochovce: Austria has made a serious strategic mistake by declaring that it will lock or shut down Bohunice when Mochovce is finished. I think that this is a deadlock, and in Slovakia this has arrived as if Austria were to accept a bit of pain, but still the newer nuclear power stations if the old and absolutely unacceptable Bohunice is turned off. This double strategy was certainly wrong and has also arrived completely wrong in Slovakia. But there is also an infinitely long discussion regarding Bohunice. To date, there is no concrete exit aid, until today there is much too little political and little diplomatic pressure. Next example: This debate is not just about Eastern European nuclear power stations. Austria would be unbelievable if it were not to the same extent to assess those nuclear power plants and, above all, those projects which are still planned in Western Europe, namely in our neighbouring country Germany. Unfortunately, with funding from the European Union and EURATOM, there is a new European pressure water reactor which could be typed and put into operation in accordance with the decision of the new German nuclear law. They should keep in mind only once the map of Austria and the nuclear power plants showing near-border nuclear power stations. You see very clearly: Of course, the threat is mainly from old Eastern European nuclear power plants, but it is also given by our EU neighbours. It is actually a second scandal, Mr Federal Chancellor, that you have not yet been pressured within the European Union to draw up exit concepts and finally to amend the EU policy in the field of EURATOM. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The EU continues to have a huge financial strength with its financing concepts, with its funding programmes – PHARE, TACIS, but of course EURATOM. However, the German and French nuclear industries are still interested in new projects, especially in Eastern Europe. Federal Chancellor! If you really meant it seriously with an Austrian anti-atomic policy, you would have to use the Austrian EU Presidency to create a basis. ==References== The first EU Presidency was held in July 1998. Where are the concepts, Mr. Federal Chancellor? Where's the preliminary work? Where is there a climate of discussion with other EU countries that would show that Austria is serious with the objective of a nuclear-free Central Europe? Or: EU and enlargement. There is a five-party resolution request from November 1997. In this resolution and also in the previous one, there are fifty motions for resolutions on this, five-party resolution. It again called on Mr Bundeskanzler, particularly in the negotiations on the enlargement of the East, to submit a binding exit concept from nuclear power during the accession negotiations, which is the basis for the Austrian agreement on new member countries. If you want to do something like this, Chancellor, then you need to work ahead, but also to make a concrete contribution to yourself. The negotiations with the potential new Member States will begin in April, and it is not known that Austria would have taken an initiative in any form. I myself was in Brussels last week and spoke with many, especially with Members from Eastern European countries, potentially new member countries. These Members told me exactly the opposite, namely that it was signaled that this was not so interesting and important, neither for the individual EU Member States nor for the EU Commission as a whole. No nuclear power plants are really a topic in the negotiations, nor are they the... – Mr President! [[Unrest in the hall.]] Capabilities Please take care of a little more peace and quiet!Unknown term type: "%s".? That's incredible!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00111_d7e2867	I'm going to interrupt the session for half a minute. [[It takes rest.]] - Ah, that worked faster. - Please, continue.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00111_d7e2890	It is significant that, obviously, only the Greens are interested in the topic of nuclear power in this country and that you prefer to chat and kick. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It may also be of interest to you that there is no initiative at all in this supposedly central policy area of anti-atomic policy, particularly in the field of EU enlargement of Austria. I repeat it again: There is the statement by many Eastern European Members that they had been signalled by the Commission, and it is very clear that neither the environmental situation nor nuclear power plants would constitute an obstacle to accession to the European Union. I ask you, Federal Chancellor: What does that mean for your policy? Why, obviously, is it not possible to get involved in this debate on EU and eastern enlargement? Why is there no initiatives on the part of Austria – at least none that can be identified in research? – They do not appear in newspaper reports, nor do they appear in concrete messages we receive from Brussels. It seems that this great opportunity of Austria is also missing, not used. The accusation we are making to you today on the occasion of this current case in Dukovany, Mr Bundeskanzler, where there is a great chance to be missed, is that you condemn that you promise that you have long since passed an active anti-atomic policy in this country! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] As evidence, your statement in London yesterday also serves. You said yesterday – this is to be read in the Austrian Press Agency under the title: "Climate demands safety standards for nuclear power plants in Europe"; I quote: In principle, it is still a nuclear-free central Europe, but "if there are nuclear power plants already, they should comply with the highest safety standard as possible," said the chancellor after lunch of the 26 Heads of State and Government in the Buckingham Palace." Yes!, everyone would say. Only: In reality, however, this shows where the journey is going. It means that you do not agree with the objective of shutting down these nuclear power plants. They obviously want them retrofitted. Federal Chancellor! There are a lot of statements from your predecessor, Dr. Vrannitzky, but also studies initiated by him, which show that a so-called retrofitting of these East nuclear power stations is not possible or unfinancing on Western safety standards. At that time, the official government policy was that it could not be the goal to achieve something impossible and to make the image appear that retrofitting is safe, but that the goal is clearly the exit from nuclear power – and that within a certain time frame. What we and many environmental organizations in this country demand is a comprehensive nuclear constitution law, which includes, above all, the issue of nuclear weapons. Federal Chancellor! They themselves have been discussing the question of a new security structure in Europe for several months. In the debate, one is always tried to cover up: Membership in a military alliance, whether NATO or WEU, also means membership in a nuclear-armed alliance, which, of course, means the provision of nuclear-weapons infrastructure, which also means transit, transport and possibly the creation of nuclear weapons. [[Abg. Scheibner: This is a fool!]] We want you to know exactly how you position yourself on this question. There is an opinion from the SPÖ from October, according to which the nuclear weapons are to be included in the Federal Constitutional Act: namely, a ban on transport, storage and transit, not of infrastructure. The ÖVP is opposed; apparently it has long been spiritually in NATO. There is therefore no agreement or agreement in this area so that a motion for a resolution is prepared which includes the position of the EIA, namely that nuclear weapons do not enter into the nuclear constitution law. Federal Chancellor! We also expect concrete clarification in this regard. The objective for us Greens must be a nuclear-free and nuclear-free Central Europe. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is not too late for you to reach this goal, Mr Federal Chancellor, if you finally take the initiative and do what you have promised for years, which is really to do so. We hear a lot of words – only the belief is missing that you are, in fact, finally letting those words follow actions! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00111_d7e2956	The German Chancellor is speaking to answer the urgent question. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00111_d7e2977	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to ask you, at the outset, for my reply to take a little more time. This is due to the fact that 37 questions have been asked to me, but also to the fact that, from my point of view, the issue of nuclear policy is very responsible – without the emergence of false hopes that are not feasible, without fear being further shaken, responsibly with a clear perspective, but also with realistic steps of policy. I believe that the policy that fights against the dangers of nuclear power is an issue that concerns all of Austria, which rightly moves all of Austria, and which we also need to have a common position in Austria in the future, because, unfortunately, Austria, too, must be said quite openly, is still the only European country in which all parties have expressed themselves with a clear and unmistakable no against the use of nuclear energy. Austria is still the only European country that is seriously committed to a nuclear-free central Europe. And precisely because, despite numerous and committed efforts and intensive discussions, we have hardly found any alliance partners, an internal consensus in nuclear policy is of such strategic importance. I, like you, ladies and gentlemen, become an active anti-atomic policy, and I become a policy that fights for nuclear power freedom, because nuclear power – in which we all agree – is a technology that cannot be addressed against humans like anyone else. I also recognise that Austria is a stepmaker for a nuclear-free Central Europe and must work towards a rethinking in nuclear policy throughout Europe, but, ladies and gentlemen, on an open, transparent and honest basis! [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] I think it would be irresponsible to want to give the Austrian population the impression that Austria could, if only it wanted to, in the single way and in the same way in the first place, bring about the elimination of all nuclear risks and dangers. For one such policy, as I mean, I am not at my disposal and with me the entire Federal Government! We promise that we will use all the means at our disposal to protect the Austrian population and the environment from nuclear risks and dangers – but we do not promise to use funds that are not available. We promise to take a step-by-step role on the way to a nuclear-free Europe – and this is and remains our stated objective – but we do not promise to be able to force all nuclear power plants to shut down tomorrow. We promise to continue our active and consistent nuclear energy policy – but we do not promise to be able to implement every project in which cooperation and, in most cases, the consent of other countries and thus long-term and laborious conviction processes by Austria are necessary from today to tomorrow. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We make a consistent, open and honest policy. We don't promise what we can't keep. But we keep what we promised. This is the policy of the Federal Government! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Regarding your specific comments on Dukovany, Mrs Langthaler: It's been since 5. In March 1997, it was announced that the Government of the Czech Republic had decided to increase the capacity of the intermediate camp. They know that a concentrated action was already undertaken at the time, in March 1997, by the Minister for the Environment, the Foreign Minister, and on my part. It is therefore unfair to accuse the Federal Government of inactivity in this regard. They also know that an environmental impact study has been prepared and initiated in the Czech Republic in the first phase, in the first 30 days, addressed to the local authorities. I myself spoke with the Czech Prime Minister and Mrs Prammer with the Czech Minister for the Environment in order to make it clear that we support all the measures taken by the Austrian population, but also to make it clear that the Austrian Federal Government will submit a well prepared report on this subject within the 50-day period for institutional opinions. Should the Austrian Federal Government have objected to the local office of Dukovany? - Certainly not! There is the possibility of an institutional opinion, for which is an additional – and you know that, I suppose – for 20 days. We have therefore supported the fact that the corresponding hearing, the hearing of the Austrian population, is secure. However, we have also taken a serious course by instructing an Austrian institute to draw up an opinion, which will be transmitted in good time to the Czech authorities on the institutional path. I would ask you to take into account the differences in the time limits in the municipal procedure and in the institutional procedure, Mrs Colleague, if you criticize the fact that a deadline is running out tomorrow and we do not object, because that is not correct. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: Oh yes!]] - Please, no! 50 days takes the institutional procedure of the Czech Republic. – We have always talked very objectively to each other. We as the Republic of Austria cannot give our opinion at the municipal office in Dukovany. And I am very glad that we are preparing our opinion very, very well and that Mrs Federal Minister Prammer will draw up this opinion in cooperation with the experts and the scientists. To your statements regarding Mochovce: We have had to note that our efforts to prevent the financing of the Mochovce nuclear power plant by means of Least Cost variants and so on have not been successful. We have managed to do so at EBRD, but you know that other financial institutions have come into existence. What we have now and I have been personally engaged in talking with the Slovak Prime Minister in November is that a visit by an expert committee under Austrian leadership is possible. It has required several diplomatic interventions to ensure that this action can actually be carried out prior to the first loading of core elements. It has required pressure, we have exerted this pressure, and there is now an agreement – Mrs Prammer has been very committed to it – that this approach can also be carried out. We also, as you, honourable Members, know, together with the environmental organisations, have prepared a package of measures for a new dimension of Austrian nuclear energy policy. We have not only involved the competent Minister for Radiation Protection and the Minister for the Environment in the preparation of this package of measures, but have worked together with environmental organisations. And we have not only worked it out, but we decided already a few days later in the Council of Ministers, as a mandatory package of measures by the Austrian Federal Government. This is also proof that we are very committed in this direction. I would also like to say the following: Although this package of measures is not even four months old, a number of points have already been implemented. It is similar, for example, in the Atomic Liability Act – in April the assessment period ends – or in the Dangerous Goods Transport Act, where regulations can be made to prevent nuclear transport through Austria. However, Austria has also – and this must be said clearly and clearly – been committed at European level in the context of the enlargement of the European Union to ensure that the report by the Foreign Ministers to the European Council in Luxembourg makes a clear link between the progress made by the applicants on the level of nuclear safety as a whole and the results in the negotiation process. We have already included the need for comprehensive reforms in the energy sector, in particular the need for long-term and comprehensive energy strategies as a prerequisite for defining concrete exit concepts in the negotiations for the accession partnerships in eastern enlargement. – So: Their statement that Austria is not trying to do so in connection with the enlargement of the European Union has been contradicted by concrete measures taken by the Federal Government. I would also like to address, ladies and gentlemen, clearly and clearly, the mixing of the issues of security policy and anti-atomic policy. Of course, for me, a nuclear-free Europe or, even more comprehensively, the vision of a nuclear-free world is just as important as it is for you. But we should not pretend to the population that success can only be achieved in all areas or not at all. What's this about? – It is about defining the security policy of Austria, the security of our country in a dynamic changing environment and finding the best solution together with the Austrians. That is why the coalition parties in the Coalition Agreement of March 1996 also agreed to submit a security policy option report to the National Council. I recognize, as is stated in the Government Convention, a comprehensive security concept that can not only be defined militaryly, but also includes social, economic and environmental security. We support Austria's active use of the opportunities provided for in the Treaty of Amsterdam in the area of the European Union's common foreign and security policy – more actively than before – and also promote these developments accordingly. I personally believe that Europe must develop its strengths in connection with the common foreign and security policy very quickly, that Europe must learn to speak with one voice in order to react more quickly but also more forward-lookingly to crises. Europe must therefore also build up its own resources in the area of internal crisis management to the common security policy and develop its own identity – from an Austrian point of view, certainly without a nuclear potential, ladies and gentlemen! I can answer you specifically to Question No 1: Of course, the Federal Government continues to confess itself to the quoted "atomic package". In this context, it is still planned, in particular, to raise the so-called nuclear barrier law, as well as the ban on the storage and conditioning of nuclear waste from abroad to the constitutional level. In addition, there are currently negotiations. I can answer questions 2 and 3 and 5 to 9: It should be assumed that, without restrictions, Austria has committed itself to abandoning the possession, use and stationing of nuclear weapons under international law. Austria will continue to pay full attention to these commitments! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] All of Austria's security policy decisions therefore have to be based on this legal obligation, and these commitments will continue to be an important framework condition for the future security policy of Austria. In this sense, both the membership of Austria in the European Union, its observer status in the Western European Union, its cooperation in NATO's "Partnership for Peace" and its European orientation of security and defence policy strengthened by the EU Treaty of Amsterdam are compatible with these commitments. In particular, the use of the WEU by the EU provided for by the Treaty of Amsterdam to carry out the so-called Petersberg tasks in the areas of peacekeeping and peacekeeping enables common European responses to security threats in our environment. In this context, the existing contractual situation ensures that the nuclear component of the WEU and NATO, quoted by you, which is only relevant in the aid case in both organisations, does not play a role in the implementation of the Petersberg tasks. I believe that the ongoing efforts to create a stronger European security and defence identity, in particular to strengthen conflict prevention and crisis management, will make a significant contribution to preventing conflicts in order to prevent their escalation and to allow peaceful solutions. In this sense, I also understand Austria's commitment to security policy as an important contribution to arms control and disarmament in Europe. A nuclear component of the European Union's common foreign and security policy is not discussed. In any case, Austria would clearly oppose the development of such a nuclear component, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] To your questions 10, 12 and 13: I have already said that Austria's participation in the NATO "Partnership for Peace" is based on the basic idea of making greater contributions to security, stability and peacekeeping. The basis for the Austrian cooperation in this regard is the so-called framework document as well as the introduction document submitted by Austria. This makes it clear that the participation of Austria is exclusively in the – non-nuclear! – areas of peacekeeping operations, humanitarian and disaster aid, as well as search and rescue services will take place. In this context, I should like to make it clear that the Convention between the NATO Contracting States and the other States participating in the Partnership for Peace – the "PfP" SOFA Agreement – governs exclusively the legal status of troops participating in the "Partnership for Peace". Since this "partnership for peace" refers exclusively to non-nuclear areas, this agreement is, of course, within the framework of Austria's international obligations and its constitutional law. It is also expressly stated in the "PfP" SOFA Agreement that the decision to send or receive troops is reserved for a bilateral agreement between the States concerned. [[Abg. Scheibner: Where is this agreement? There's no such thing as that!]] In addition, the Austrian participation in the peace-building efforts of the United Nations carried out under Chapter VII of the United Nations Statutes in Bosnia and Herzegovina with NATO was necessary, as you know, in order to ensure the legal framework for Austrian participation. I can say clearly to the Austrian Federal Government that Austria is in principle opposed to the use of nuclear weapons and has already repeatedly expressed this in the context of the United Nations. On the question 11: Austria as a non-NATO member is not the appropriate address for information on internal NATO considerations and determinations. On questions 4 and 14: Austria supports the concept of nuclear-free zones. In this context, Austria considers that the creation of a nuclear-free zone must, of course, give the consent of all the countries covered by this zone. As long as nuclear weapons are stationed in Europe, unfortunately – I regret this – the feasibility of a nuclear-free zone in Europe is not possible, but this does not affect our efforts towards achieving this objective. Question 15: Ladies and gentlemen! As you know, I am very committed to anchoring the efforts, organizations, the issues of nuclear arms control and disarmament, in Austria. In this context, I refer to the latest example of CTBTO. If the question arises of setting up an office for the Canberra Commission for Austria, it will of course be supported by Austria. On the question 16: I have not given up the task of nuclear co-ordination within the Federal Government. That is why I cannot see any strategic consequences of this either. In view of the additional commitment of the Federal Minister for Radiation Protection, it is clear both internally and externally that active nuclear energy policy remains a priority for Austria. On the question 17: We are now moving towards the civil use of nuclear energy. Nuclear safety and the need for comprehensive structural reforms in the energy sector of those countries wishing to join the European Union have been addressed not only since the adoption of the package of measures, but already since the start of the European debate on enlargement of the European Union. And it is thanks not least to Austria's intervention that, as mentioned above, this clear link has been established in Luxembourg and that the accession partnerships will define both the priorities of future support for the candidate countries and will also serve as a general outline for the priorities of the enlargement process. The debate at Council level will continue. xxx(sic!) The intermediate results currently available can be expected to take into account the Austrian concerns to a large extent. Finally, I did not stress until yesterday at the European Conference in London that, in those cases where countries now wishing to join the European Union, we are not possible to leave nuclear energy in the short term, at least – at least! – require appropriate safety standards. The aim is to get these countries out of nuclear energy that want to join the European Union. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, I am already in favour of fair treatment. I can't realistically rule out the exclusion. France or Germany from the European Union demand because these countries operate nuclear power plants. This is not really realistic. I cannot therefore demand that the accession of those countries of Central and Eastern Europe operating nuclear power plants with comparable safety standards be excluded. That would be unfair – and I know you are not personally. It is therefore a question of preparing an exit scenario in a long-term transition process, but we may very well demand that there be at least the same safety standards for the protection of people – which is also a prerequisite for accession. On the question 18: I believe that, first of all, it should be pointed out that the role of the Presidency should be in mediation and not in polarization. Nevertheless, we will benefit from the possibilities of our presidency to set certain accents. And one of these accents will surely be in the nuclear field. On question 19: This is not a question of excluding a certain position or accepting a different position. It is probably the first thing to do is to achieve the best possible solutions to protect the Austrian population and the environment. In the light of the fact that a complete ban on the energy use of nuclear energy cannot be imposed, the discussion on the interpretation of a high level of nuclear safety and therefore also on the technical safety standards of nuclear power plants must also be held. [[Continued unrest in the hall.]] Question 20: To this end, I should like to refer to the already detailed answer to question 17. But with regard to cooperation with countries ready for entry, it should be noted that none of the applicants are to be described as ready to leave in the short term. However, in recent months, we have used every visit, every official contact, every opportunity to find potential cooperation partners on nuclear safety issues related to the enlargement of the European Union. On question 21: The answer to this question in detail would actually break the framework of today's meeting.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00111_d7e3080	Wait a minute, Federal Chancellor! – Ladies and gentlemen! I would find it fair for Members who urgently have something to discuss with each other, for which I understand what is being done outside the meeting room and for those who want to listen to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany because they have put a serious question at a special meeting, to offer the opportunity to do so. That's my serious request. Please continue, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00111_d7e3099	Thank you very much, Mr President. I can turn to question 21 again: In my last government visit to Sweden, I have been very involved with the Swedish government in discussing the exodus scenario that Sweden is considering, and we will use every opportunity to find others who join our common conviction that the peaceful use of nuclear energy in nuclear power plants is not a reasonable energy policy either. On the question 22: We have initially commissioned an analysis of the current financial instruments of the European Union. On the basis of the first results of this analysis, it should be noted that the European Investment Bank in particular grants loans to the non-nuclear energy sector of the candidate countries to a significant extent. It should also be noted that no project in Eastern Europe has yet been financed from EURATOM bonds, even if there are a number of applications – this has been openly admitted. After the analysis has been completed, we have proposed how we have succeeded in setting up more concrete initiatives here at the EBRD. On the question 23: I note again clearly and clearly that no information was missing from Austria under the bilateral nuclear information agreement. It is true, however, that compared to other neighbouring countries of Austria, the Czech Republic is rather reluctant to interpret this bilateral nuclear information agreement. Against this background, it seems also little useful to focus scarce resources on a little promising initiative to expand this agreement. I asked the Czech Prime Minister yesterday to ratify immediately the Espoo Agreement you have referred to, which the Czech Republic has not yet ratified, so that we can have a common legal basis for it. You know, of course, ladies and gentlemen, that this Espoo agreement has not yet been ratified in the Czech Republic. We are still acting as if it had already been ratified and will give our opinion on Dukovany, but you know that it has not yet been ratified. We are making political pressure so that the Czech Republic can actually do that. Question 24: I have already referred to the bilateral part of the Nuclear Information Agreement in the preliminary question. We are in a very committed dialogue with Switzerland and are convinced that we will soon be able to reach a successful conclusion. We have recently sent such an agreement with Slovenia and with Ukraine to the National Council for approval. On question 25: We have taken all the necessary steps together, but also an earlier notification would not have changed anything. On the question 26: I discussed this issue yesterday, as mentioned above, with my colleague-in-law, the Czech Prime Minister, and pointed him very strongly to Austrian concerns. In a letter to the Czech Minister for the Environment, which has already been sent – because you said we had not written yet, we would write at some point; on the contrary, this has already been done – precisely raised and confirmed these demands. There is not yet an official answer to this question. Therefore, I cannot tell you yet the Czech Republic's answer. On the question 27: The intention of the operator to extend the operating life of the Dukovany nuclear power plant is, as I have already said in my introduction, known for a long time, and I have already explained what the Federal Government intends to do very precisely and well prepared within the time limit. On the question 28: I also raised this question in my discussion with the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic yesterday. In addition, this issue was related to the Czech Minister for the Environment in the letter already mentioned by the Federal Minister for the Environment Prammer. The situation in the Czech Republic, however, is not as clear as it is presented by you. It seems appropriate, therefore, that the current transitional government should be very committed to the fact that this ratification is at last taking place. On question 29: The main objective of the second follow-up to the Mochovce nuclear power plant is to maintain the necessary clarity about the actual extent of the retrofitting measures carried out. At the moment, I have to tell you, it seems premature to have speculation on the German Government's response to the results of this process. Question 30: In our view that at least blocks 1 and 2 of the Bohunice nuclear power plant should be shut down as far as possible, nothing has changed. Our position is clear: Should the Slovak Republic actually put the Mochovce nuclear power plant into operation, this must be linked to the immediate closure of the first two blocks of the Bohunice nuclear power plant. This does not mean, however, that we approve the commissioning of the Mochovce nuclear power plant. It is true, however, that this promise is made by the Slovak Government. I also reminded Meciar, and he also publicly repeated it before the Austrian press. On question 31: I refer to the answer to questions 17 and 20, but I immediately admit, as you know, that Austria's advances in this regard have not met with huge interest in other Member States of the European Union. However, I assure you that our joint Austrian efforts will continue to be consistent and sustainable. On question 32: We have already taken this into account, because we have set the focus on Energy Partnerships in the context of the enlargement of the European Union. The new provisions of the East-Eco Fund also explicitly refer to energy projects. On question 33: The development work on the European Water Pressure reactor EPR has been under way for many years, as you know. I quite agree with you that the creation of a site-independent authorisation procedure in German nuclear law must be directly linked to this development work. However, I have no reason to doubt the statements made by official German representatives today that in the foreseeable future no new nuclear power plant is planned in Germany. I should like to remind you once again that the Federal Government, although this is national sovereign decisions, will, of course, express its concerns clearly and clearly, if necessary. On question 34: It can be ruled out that financial resources from the 5th century can be excluded. The framework programme for research and technological development of the European Union benefits from the establishment of a nuclear power plant or even from direct product development, because Community research is, by definition, precompetitive. It should not be excluded that Community research projects will also produce results that benefit from future reactor developments – or whoever else – in one form or another. ==References====External links== From our point of view, framework programme for research and technological development does not exclude funding of nuclear research and, according to the Minister responsible, does not require a veto of Austria. On question 35: This request of the National Council can only be implemented in the long term. I would remind you that the Austrian and Irish initiatives did not receive the consent of other Member States during the 1996 Intergovernmental Conference, and I would remind you that a change of the EURATOM Treaty obviously requires unanimity. However, given the dynamics of the European discussion process, we hope that an Austrian initiative will be possible. On question 36: It is also a long-term project implemented in a wide range of interventions and initiatives. Finally, in my greeting address to the anniversary general conference of the International Atomic Energy Agency last year – not to their delight, but very clear – I expressed that the energetic use of nuclear energy is not an appropriate strategy to combat the greenhouse effect, since nuclear energy cannot be reconciled with the principles and priorities of sustainable and sustainable development and is also highly economically questionable. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On question 37 – that is the last question – I should like to say the following: The Federal Government is very reserved for a proliferation of global organizations and institutions, as an increase in bureaucracy rarely leads to an increase in meaningful and desirable activities. However, there is a sharp imbalance in the energy sector with regard to the institutional anchoring of various energy sources. In particular, the International Atomic Energy Agency at United Nations level does not face an equivalent institution for the non-nuclear energy sector. Austria has therefore long been pursuing the creation of adequate institutional conditions with various initiatives. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to ask you to continue to pursue together the common line of Austrian nuclear policy with regard to both peaceful and military use. Only in this way will we be successful in our environment and in Europe – in the sense of protecting people and the environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00111_d7e3276	We are now going into the debate. Speaking time of the individual speakers: 10 minutes, as we know. The first is Mrs. Dr. Petrovic's speech. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00111_d7e3300	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Chancellor! High house! I think it is very positive that both the Federal Chancellor and the Minister for Consumer Protection and the "Participation of the Environment" will take part in the debate on the urgent question. But with this my positive perceptions also end, because the following was very remarkable: Mr Bundeskanzler, although you have conspired to the consensus in Austria's anti-atomic policy, I think you have left him with this statement – as politicians can and also understand – and not the Greens or any other political group. You have left this consensus quite clearly by introducing a very decisive turn, namely, under the motto of "atomic realism". The "atomic realism" and what you understand among them is a change towards the line that has represented, for example, Minister of Environment Flemming or Chancellor Vranitzky. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Federal Chancellor Mag. Climate: No!]] - Yes. I'll explain this to you. First I go to the energy sector, then to NATO and nuclear weapons. Energy: Federal Chancellor! Why is the opinion of the Federal Government not finished if you already know since March 1997 that this is in principle planned? Do you have to do "sooo" carefully that just today can't be done? [[Federal Chancellor Mag. Climate: Yes!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oberhaidinger.]] It is, above all, the honourable Member, as Mr Langthaler said quite correctly: The deadline for application, the time limit for formal application under the EIA procedure, ends today, for all parties involved! Federal Chancellor! The local authorities and local authorities in the Czech Republic have a right to review and comment on the objections received. Unfortunately, the original right of objections ends today – and it is not used by the Federal Government! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Further call of the Abg. Oberhaidinger.]] If it had been about "energy policy realism", why should Environment Minister Flemming have gone to Wackersdorf at the time? – It was not realistic at the time that the construction of the Wackersdorf reprocessing plant or the fast brewing plant in France was still to be stopped. All the many smaller successes of the anti-CFC movement were not realistic when some citizens, supported by some politicians, began to resist across all political groups. At first, all of this was not realistic, and it succeeded! Federal Chancellor! If you ask from the beginning – and this is the turn: What could be realistic?, you can no longer make major changes! Another thing: There is a single really safe nuclear power plant in the vicinity of Austria, and that is, Zwentendorf. This only truly safe nuclear power plant was not "turned away" by the government at the time, but probably by enabling a democratic decision by the population to be made by reality and a hundred percent. Otherwise, I don't know any safe nuclear power stations. That is why the milestone of the change in the direction of the Federal Government, which you have expressed here today, is nothing else – but, Federal Chancellor, it is nothing else – that you have passed from me from an exit scenario with transitional periods, with assistance, but from a clear exit scenario – to the slogan of improved security. [[Interference of the Federal Chancellor Mag. Climate]] Federal Chancellor! Do you know what that means? – This means billions of investments, and contractors are called Siemens, Westinghouse and others. And as an economist, Mr Bundeskanzler, you know just as well as I do what it means to invest billions in an outdated nuclear power station, so that it can last longer! The so-called security strategy is an extension strategy, is a maintenance strategy. That's your realism! They thus extend the time to the exit, which could be achieved much earlier by the operation of the population – if you are just unrealistic! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Or: Federal Chancellor! Where was the political commitment – a commitment in the same strength as you fought for the Bank Austria at the time, for the influence of the WestLB in Austria – when the French atomic giant bought himself, when even the Minister of Economic Affairs did not really find it quite well? Where was the massive protest? Where did you get people to be responsible? Setting security strategies, especially on uniform European safety standards, means decades of negotiations, means a collection of technological advances and is the diametric opposite of an exit scenario. And above all, Federal Chancellor: If this is so unrealistic today, I'll ask you: What has led the Federal Government to do so? November of the previous year in its own issue – literal quote – to say: [[Interference of the Federal Chancellor Mag. Climate]] The Federal Government will be based on the resolution of the National Council of 10. In July 1997, as part of the forthcoming EU accession negotiations with Central and Eastern European countries, commit themselves to the preparation of nuclear exodus concepts and to the establishment of appropriate activities. – This was not about "and security investments", but about exit concepts, which are binding. I therefore ask you: Why has this project disappeared within a few months? - That's not quite clear. This may also have to do with the economic interests of some potential investors and corporations in Austria. Otherwise, I can't explain that to myself. Now to the arms sector: Federal Chancellor! In this area, you have been particularly skillful in the use of political language, because you know just as well as I do that the international obligation of Austria not to own nuclear weapons to station and so on to refer to its own nuclear weapons. I really hope that there is consensus on this, namely that in Austria we do not produce our own nuclear weapons, station them somewhere, and thus threaten others. The real question we are facing and the very heart of your coalition partner is NATO – it's not about Austrian nuclear weapons – and I miss a clear word on your part. It is already true that there are foreign armies in the Allentsteig area. The nuclear-free zone is reality, so I ask you: Don't we want to secure her? – They only talk about the obligation to assist in the event of a crisis. But I assume that in Austria we do not want to have any nuclear weapons at all! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In answer to question 1, you have also said political, rhetorical, elegant – but the Gretchen question of you and your coalition partner concerns the stationing and transit of nuclear weapons –: Negotiations are under way. – It would be interesting to know how these negotiations are going ahead and when they will come to a conclusion. I come to the conclusion. Federal Chancellor! National consensus does not mean swearing on rhetorical flakes. Of course, all here in this House and all Austrians are against war, violence, environmental destruction and exploitation. But as head of government, I ask you: What does that mean in the specific case? What does peacekeeping mean? Peace by weapons? – This is contained in NATO and WEU strategies. I would also like to ask you: What are you doing? – From the head of government, I do not only expect conjuring formulas, empty formulas against war and violence, against all evil and for all good – this is a little too little! And, in particular, with regard to the questions of the hard political instruments, which also lead to conflicts, namely: Will you benefit from veto law within the EU?
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00111_d7e3412	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00111_d7e3428	Are you using appeals? Where are the funds going? Is there a junk in the accession negotiations and nuclear exodus?, precisely with these questions you are only in rhetorical snorkels. – This is a Friday, the 13th, the Austrian nuclear policy!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00111_d7e3458	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00111_d7e3479	Mrs Petrovic! Because you seem to have misunderstood me, I would like to make this clear: It is about maintaining the exit scenario from nuclear power plants in Central Europe. I have spoken about the fact that we want to set binding high standards of security in the common law of the European Union. This is an incentive for the countries of Eastern Europe, which have low standards, to do just that. It is an incentive to discuss alternative energy supply projects with these countries because the exit makes sense because they know that they are not to come to the European Union with the low old standards and therefore a start to alternative projects in which we will support them is the goal! [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Wabl and Mr Jung.]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Please Believe You're telling me: It is not about anyone investing a lot of money now to bring old Eastern European nuclear power plants to a high standard. That's not the goal! The objective is a common exit scenario, which we want to achieve with considerable pressure. This means that we now have the opportunity, together, to carry out alternative projects based on Least Cost Planning and financial support to get out of these nuclear power plants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00111_d7e3522	The next speaker is Mr Oberhaidinger. Speech time: maximum 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00111_d7e3551	I am glad, Mr Wabl, that you are excited. I am delighted, but I promise you, I will not be in the Lower Austrian election campaign, which unfortunately – unfortunately! – the occasion for this special meeting should be to interfere, but I will deal with the problem you have raised so urgently. Ladies and gentlemen! As I am relatively concerned with the issue of nuclear power stations in the Eastern European countries. I am very glad that we have been able to take a consistent position on this subject for a long time in Austria – I hope it will be so in the future. In this context, I am entitled – Mrs Langthaler as This has already been mentioned by the previous speaker – recalling the many five-party resolution proposals that we have adopted here in this House, and I believe that one of the most comprehensive and comprehensive motions for resolutions on this issue was adopted in July 1997. In more than 20 points, we dealt with the Austrian anti-atom position and passed on corresponding orders to the government. However, I also note for my part – I only need to read the newspapers in order to get this confirmed – that the Austrian members of the government also represent a uniform strict anti-atomism in Germany and abroad; even if the opposition parties do not want to do so. And what makes me particularly happy: The Austrian representatives in the EU and the EU institutions are always laying the highest standards on nuclear energy issues when it comes to Easter enlargement, budgetary issues, research promotion or the like. Mrs Petrovic! You said there was a change in the sense that we had gone off the exit scenario. I can tell you the following: You must know the Oostlander report. In December 1997 the European Parliament and the amendments tabled by our Members and adopted by a majority. I'm allowed to quote: "5.) ... draws attention to the existing nuclear power plants in the countries of Central and Eastern Europe and calls on the Commission to make a accession" – precisely the required scenario: (b) to ensure that operational safety is checked by an independent body recognised by the IAEA, (c) to establish safety procedures in accordance with the Euratom Treaty in order to ensure the safety of highly radioactive material; – "and not to put in place those nuclear power plants which cannot be brought to the necessary international level of safety," – as far as I know from the experts, this will be difficult for Mochovce and, in part, for Temelin, because it is very difficult to reconcile old East technology with the newer Western technology in such a way that one can really create a "some sort of safe" nuclear power station – under quotations. Therefore, in accordance with this resolution, the nuclear power plants that have been repeatedly quoted should clearly fall into the exit scenario in the European Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen! But the Federal Council – and I am glad for our house – did not make a massive statement until yesterday for the strict continuation of Austrian anti-atomic policy; the heads of state detto. In recent years, in recent months, as well as in recent weeks, the various rural days have repeatedly invited the Federal Government to join the Eastern European countries in the last few weeks. So even if our Federal Government did not want to be as right as it was today, the pressure – alone the political pressure, but also the pressure of the general public – would be so great that it would not be easy for them to change their attitude in this regard. I think we should do this in this debate. We have already achieved a great deal of success with this externally uniform, closed attitude. The importance of nuclear safety in Europe, especially in the former Eastern countries, has become one of the most important issues within the EU. In addition to raising environmental and social standards, the safety of nuclear power plants in the applicant countries is one of the key conditions for their accession to the European Union. Investments in nuclear installations, but also European Union funding for the nuclear industry, have been reduced in favour of renewable energy sources. The new European Union White Paper on a European energy policy is fully committed to renewable energy. The share of renewable energy is to be doubled across Europe. But even in our eastern neighbours, we were not unsuccessful. I recall our bilateral energy partnerships, which started and supported essential ideas towards reorientation towards energy saving and other non-nuclear energy sources. If one not only talks about these states but goes to these states and talks with people there, especially those who are more intensive about the exit from the nuclear power scenario and know the energy situation in their country, then one learns how energy policy is being operated there, for example in Slovakia. That's because it's set on storage heat. That means the rooms are supplied with electric power. There almost conscious ways are chosen, which are very energy-consuming and energy-intensive. First of all, there must be a rethinking. In addition, we know that public relations are not being promoted, but rather hindered. It is therefore also very difficult to do such information and information work in the wider public in Slovakia and, in part, in the Czech Republic. Nevertheless, we have already achieved some significant steps in this direction. I can only recall the changeover to the conventional power plant in Šoštanj in Slovenia or in Novaky in Slovakia. [[Abg. Wabl: Stop Šoštanj!]] Šoštanj has been renovated for environmental reasons, and thus conventional energies are used in these countries. Ladies and gentlemen! It is forgotten again and again: From the high House we have achieved that Mochovce could not be financed by EBRD funds. You will certainly remember the debate here in the House. For the fact that there are other sources of funding, we cannot do anything. But we have always used our official possibilities to the best possible extent. On these issues, I think that some speakers of my group will speak and deal with details. I believe that a very ambitious package has been implemented by the Austrian Federal Government; above all, going to what we now stand in the house. I am thinking here of the collection of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Act in the constitutional rank, the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons and the Prohibition of Nuclear Mushrooms, which should also be raised in the constitutional rank. I would remind you once again of our demands in connection with the EU accession negotiations of the Eastern European applicants and also our commitment to promoting renewable energy. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that we will continue to pursue Austrian anti-atomic policies, as we have been pursuing them for years, consistently in this direction. I can assure you that the Austrian Government and the two government parties will consistently call upon our neighbours to take all measures to ensure the highest possible protection for the Austrian population. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00111_d7e3591	Mrs Rosemarie Bauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00111_d7e3615	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As a member of the Hollabrun district and thus also of the wine district, I am sure to be one of those directly affected by the effects of an expansion and an extension of the Dukovany nuclear power plant or the Dukovany nuclear power plant. The inhabitants of our region are honestly concerned, they have fears, but they are also very well informed by the many conversations and contacts with politicians and the population in the Czech Republic and in some cases they cannot be deceived. Even if you, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, write into your urgent question, you want to have a serious debate about the situation and the future of the government's anti-atomic policy, you can't quite reject it – you can see today's accompanying press releases in the federal states, especially in the Federal State of Lower Austria – that this is actually one thing: It is a question of abuse of this forum, this plenary session for the election campaign in Lower Austria, which will be concluded in one week. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You notice the intention and you're right, because it can't be like you're fixed at the deadline 13. On the other hand, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: You think Dukovany is a brain spider – or what? There's no such thing as that?]] In fact, you need this day to make vortexes here, to startle fears, to make a mess again and to list failures that are not really, Mrs Langthaler. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] It is quite interesting – it has already been pointed out by both the Federal Chancellor and other speakers – to note that this 13. In the first place, the time-limit for those directly concerned is that the 50-day period covers the institutions and that nothing has been missed at all. Also the references to the Espoo Agreement and to the fact that this is still to be recovered are correct. So we have no way to perceive other forms of communication. While Mrs Petrovic has now missed this deadline and has continued to insist that we should be obliged to deliver an opinion, the Greens candidate in Lower Austria is giving rise to binding instruments for participation and the party position. There is obviously a contradiction here, and they have not been sufficiently clarified. – So much for the seriality number one. Seriality number two: the accusations to the head of state of Lower Austria. I believe that especially the head of state of Lower Austria and the Lower Austrian state government are vehemently and constantly... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hans Helmut Moser.]] I read the press releases. You are well advised if you protect a coat so that you do not immediately notice that you are using us here today for the election campaign. They're letting your candidates blame the head of state for failure. The very opposite is the case, and I have to say for the x-th time – although you obviously do not want to take note of it anyway – that Lower Austria has its own nuclear law officer, a lawyer who represents Lower Austria in matters of nuclear law and has already achieved positive results on this subject. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This nuclear rights officer, Dr. Autumn, was on 11 July. In March 1998, a few days ago, he was personally present in Prague and gave the opinion of the State of Lower Austria. It has expressed its concern about the project which it calls grossly inadequate, and has yet to do with the exchange of information in the event of cross-border risks, because this point is not regulated either. It has also identified the insufficient protective measures in the event of a reactor accident. The claim number two is also incorrect. The claim made by Mr Barmüller – he is not here now – is equally incorrect, and he has also addressed Mr Pröll. He meant he didn't even swirl with his ears. – He does not wave with his ears, ladies and gentlemen of the Liberal Forum! His qualities are different. They not only had the opportunity to express calls about the Federation, but they were sitting for a whole legislative period in the Lower Austrian Landtag and could have brought in some of it; however, hearing was nothing of it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusions of the Abg. Wabl.]] The fact that you, ladies and gentlemen of the Liberal Forum, are now unable to bring anything in is clear to me, because in the meantime your group has come to an end, it is simply broken. I therefore also note the need for Mr Barmüller's calls. [[Abg. Wabl: Lower Austria does not allow any opposition!]] Ladies and gentlemen! But I would like to point out something else, because the word "serious" is so required. I cannot be surprised enough about yesterday's press reports in which it has been called, the chairman of an association, a certain Mr. Holzinger, head of the International Civil Society, by chance, club secretary of the Greens, if I remember correctly, has handed over 2 million signatures to the mayor of Dukovany. [[Abg. Wabl: For good reason!]] Now, however, I read in an article of yesterday's issue of a daily newspaper that it was actually only 10,000 signatures, one has counted this number high and has come to 2 million; one has added to it the effects of the decisions of the Landtages of Salzburg and Innsbruck and the municipal council decisions of Upper Austria and Klosterneuburg. – So if this is serious, ladies and gentlemen, then I really don't know what the word "serious" is supposed to mean. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] "Many noises for nothing" is the motto of today's meeting, which costs a lot of money and demands our presence, just so that you may be able to catch some votes in the country election in Lower Austria. I'm condemning that! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Since I live in this region – in the wine district – I know that it is particularly important in all demands for legal regulations and measures – we should not underestimate that, and that was also said by my previous speaker – to make moods, to talk to the people, to offer help. There must be evidence of energy savings and conscious use of energy and of projects in which alternative and renewable energy sources are implemented into small power plants, as they already exist in some municipalities. It is gratifying that many mayors and their councillors from the Czech Republic come specifically to the wine district, look at these exemplary projects and want to realize them. I also believe that this on-the-spot awareness is particularly important due to good neighbourly relations. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! With a view to continuing our successful anti-atomic policy, I would like to make a motion for a resolution. [[Abg. Wabl: Please do not make any threats!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00111_d7e3814	The application is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Schweitzer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00111_d7e3838	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Members Gabriela Moser, Langthaler and friends have today submitted a request concerning urgent anti-atomic measures for Austria. We liberals will agree to this request. It concerns the prohibition of possession, use, manufacture, transit, stationing of nuclear weapons and the lifting of the Nuclear Locking Act, including constitutional nuclear fusion reactors, to prohibit the storage and disposal of nuclear waste and the ban on the transit of fissile material and nuclear waste by Austria. Mrs Langthaler! The application made by you today is consistent with the popular desire "Atomfree Austria": no nuclear weapons to or through Austria, no transit, storage or stationing, no nuclear waste storage, no nuclear transports et cetera. Mrs Langthaler! In order to meet this same popular desire that was made in the previous year, you will have on 17 November. September 1997 said: This second popular desire – the first came from the United Green Austria – on the nuclear issue of FPÖ is a political joke article and will already be waste paper at the time of the registration week. – Yes, please, Mrs Langthaler, what is the same request that has been made today? . We will vote in favour of this request because we believe that both are not jokes. I would just like to say that you are actually misusing us today, otherwise you would have agreed at the time and said: This nuclear popular desire is necessary. – This is the twofold nature of the greens, and this should be clearly and clearly shown in this example. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But there is a second thing, namely the nuclear policy of the Greens. Mr Petrovic, according to an APA issue of 6. March 1998: "Of course, we are advocates of EU enlargement, but of course, accession should be curtailed with a nuclear exit concept." Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Aumayr made this request several times last year in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and also in the debate on the five-party proposal. Why, then, did the Greens vote against Mr Aumayr's request, which contains exactly what Mr Petrovic asked for on the 6th of this month? Yeah, what's that? – This is a second time an absolute dual tenacity of the greens. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We must also make it clear once more how credible the Greens are in this question of nuclear power stations. In one point, however, one must give the Greens the right to: The realization that under climate the Austrian anti-atomic policy was motivated is indeed true. If the Federal Government under Vrannitzky was verbally recognized as a nuclear opponent – at least during the government declarations – Austria has been losing sight of credibility since the start of the office of climate. The best proof of this, Mr. Federal Chancellor, is the two-year-old secrecy of the Mochovce-Dossier – you will still remember it. A dossier showing blatant design errors and a total of 156 serious defects was kept secret by your Federal Government for two years. – This is the consistent continuation of the Austrian anti-atomic policy, which has been completely out of step for a long time. To ensure that Mr Bauer does not leave the place as a great winner, I would remind you of another 13th, namely 13th. ==References== Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! ==References== In November 1996, all EIA's European Parliamentarians voted in favour of the use of nuclear energy and made a request to the effect that the promotion of nuclear energy would cease and the EURATOM Treaty would have been amended in 2002 to ensure that the safe reduction of the number of nuclear reactors and the safe storage of nuclear waste would have been the only task of EURATOM. [[Call out to the liberals: Oh, that's it?]] What's the name of these Members? – Flemming, Rack, Rübig, Stenzel, Habsburg and Pirker have prevented the adoption of the request by their votes. – So much for the credibility of the ÖVP in terms of anti-atomic policy! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. You were never there!]] Ladies and gentlemen! With this in mind, Austria has certainly failed to act as a step-maker in the creation of a CFC-free Central Europe. In the meantime, it has also been pointed out – the German Chancellor's response to this question has now been clear and clear – that the Federal Government has not been successful in bilateral activities to reduce the risk potential nor has it established energy-efficient cooperations which are the prerequisite for the abandonment of the East states from the use of nuclear energy. Or do you think that the establishment of the 380 kV line by Austria is an intermediate for the exit of the Eastern countries from nuclear power? – Ladies and gentlemen, do you believe this? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I believe that this contribution serves to further and more intensive use of nuclear power in the Eastern European countries with support from Western capital, and Austria is playing the Hehler there! That's how the situation looks as far as your anti-atomic policy is concerned! – I say the Hehler. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is clear to us liberals that the Federal Government has once again failed to protect the interests of the Austrian population on the one hand and the environment on the other, and here it wants to tell the public about the microphone things that have absolutely nothing to do with reality. Ladies and gentlemen! The interests of the Austrian population should not play a role in the policy of the Federal Government as a whole in the area of eastern enlargement, but Mr. Bundeskanzler Klima recently – it was on 25 May. November 1997 – said: "We are for a speedy Easter expansion. There shall be no delay, and there shall be no brakes." – Except for the liberals, all the parties represented here in Parliament are for this rapid Easter enlargement and thus again for an adventure without If and But. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The Greens too!]] – The Greens too, although they now support the demand of the liberals that the exit from nuclear power should be junctified at least with the enlargement of the East. As far as they have now come back and have returned to this knowledge. Once again, there is a procedure that is in the interest of the European Union – in the interests of the nuclear proponents – but certainly not in the interests of the Austrian population. Ladies and gentlemen! They want an extension of the East, although not the least of the conditions have been created! There is not even institutional preparation! No candidate meets the accession criteria! All future candidate countries will be net recipients over a long period of time! - That's what we have to tell the people! We must tell them that it will be very, very much to pay. Despite the enormous financial support of more than 1,000 billion schillings, the state of Eastern European countries will not yet be able to be raised at the Western European level. Ladies and gentlemen! This will have immense effects on Austria and especially on the eastern regions of our country! But it is obvious that we do not want to discuss this, although further production or investment outlays are to be feared, even though an increased purchasing power outflow is to be feared especially in the border regions in Lower Austria, in Burgenland and in Styria, and there will be massive shifts in the area of services. All these are not just the fears of our liberals. These are also the fears expressed by the national conference in Graz in December 1997. Ladies and gentlemen! It is important to discuss the disadvantages that we can bring to our people by means of these accession negotiations as a whole. In particular, the problem of the migration of workers must be addressed in this context. According to a study by the Academy of Sciences commissioned by the Federal Government, there is a migration potential of over 9 million people, ladies and gentlemen, in the course of the Easter enlargement! [[the speaker holds up a brochure]] Of these, 25 percent will choose Austria as preferred immigration country. – To this result comes a study of the Academy of Sciences, commissioned by the Federal Government. Let us talk about it, ladies and gentlemen. 150 000 of these migrants have already taken concrete steps to get to Austria. They have sought accommodation and accommodation, residence or work permits. Ladies and gentlemen! What is the consequences for the border regions in Lower Austria, Burgenland and Styria? – It should be discussed that legal and illegal low-cost workers can be expected in large numbers, that the pressure on the current wage level will be enormous and that huge disadvantages are to be feared, particularly in the border area.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00111_d7e3942	The speaking time has expired. Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00111_d7e3957	Mr President. That is why we have also tabled a motion for a resolution calling for not only a binding assurance of the Central and Eastern European countries for an exit from the peaceful use of nuclear energy,... [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Don't go anymore!]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00111_d7e3987	Mr Schweitzer! You cannot make a motion for a resolution which has been distributed in writing and which has to be explained in accordance with the Rules of Procedure after the end of the speaking time. This will be done by another Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00111_d7e4002	The final sentence:... but also concerns all the things I mentioned last, in the interests of the Austrian population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00111_d7e4041	I would ask the next speaker to answer this motion for a resolution again. He's in front of me. He'll be distributed in writing. Mr Dr Kier came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00111_d7e4095	Mr. Khol! At the time, he didn't register. But if you turned your attention back to me at the speaker’s desk, this would be a sign that you learned something about it in the field of good behavior. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: And what are you, "Mr. Kier"? - A far-reaching high school teacher!]] Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The statement by Mrs Bauerwaren so "brightening" that at the beginning of my contribution I have to take a brief look at these statements. It has tabled a motion for a resolution. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oberhaidinger.]] First, it has explained to us that the world is healthy, that the Federal Government is diligent, that nuclear policy is not in danger and that everything is best. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: And what are you, Mr. Kier?- Oh, my God!]] But then she decided – apparently with the permission of her clubman, because without permission one cannot do so in her group – to make a motion for a resolution – cross-party; Mr Oberhaidinger is also involved – which calls on the Federal Government to deliver an opinion on Dukovany and so on and so on. So it seems that Mrs Bauer, but also Mr Oberhaidinger, who is supporting the motion, is concerned. Both of them apparently do not trust the Federal Government, otherwise they would not have to submit this motion for a resolution today. For if everything is as healthy as the Federal Chancellor has described to us, then there is no need for this motion for a resolution. The Federal Chancellor has said here that he will do this and that. There was a difference over the deadlines and whether he may have missed the deadline. If it has already failed, then the motion for a resolution is not good at all. But if he has not missed them, one must already believe that he may still do so – at least as a member of a government party. I therefore find it remarkable that the SPÖ and the ÖVP expressly express themselves here by a request that they are of the opinion that without today's call, the Federal Government would remain firm. – I emphasize: stay. For it is firm, it is firm for me. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] That is why I now turn to the German Chancellor's reply to the question. She was impressive! He said: "Austria is the only country where all parties...." – That may be true. I have not checked whether in Denmark, Ireland, Italy, Sweden, Spain and Portugal all parties are against the construction of nuclear power plants. But it is in these countries, above all, the government line, not to have power plants that produce electricity by means of nuclear technology. Therefore, his claim that he did not find any alliance partners on this point is to explain only in such a way that he did not even look for them. I would like to say that quite clearly. – Ireland had been an initiative earlier than Austria. Denmark is traditionally a country with progressive energy efforts. Italy has risen from this type of electricity generation, has shut down power plants as well as Spain and Portugal. These are all members of the EU. He doesn't know the people? Is he going to London for an intergovernmental conference to be seen on TV and say something and chat with his friend Tony Blair? Why does he not take up these possibilities? In other words: That's not true. If anyone claims that he does not find any alliance partners in these questions, then he is either ill-informed or unjust. Perhaps the Federal Minister for the Environment, who is not present today, is not well informed, and perhaps the Federal Minister for the Environment is not. – And poor Mr Wittmann, the Secretary of State, probably does not know how he is about to have to represent the Federal Chancellor here on the Government Bank in nuclear matters. He's sorry about this. [[Cheerfulness and applause at the Liberal Forum and the Greens.]] Now to the step-maker function which the Federal Chancellor has used for himself. "Mechanic," he said. . I think that a stepmaker would perhaps be the Federal Government if it were the resolution of 10. It was commissioned by the National Council and requested by the National Council on 1 July 1997. In March of this year, a new modern nuclear liability law was in place at the time of the 1990s. That's not her. It was set up before the 1st century. No such law was submitted on 1 March. Mr Oberhaidinger! This resolution, adopted on 10 June. It is therefore strange that some of this resolution, which was adopted on 10 July 1997, was unanimously adopted in this House. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). We all agreed here! Mr Oberhaidinger, you have also voted in favour. ==References== However, there is no draft nuclear liability law of the Federal Government. And you want to make it clear to us that the Federal Government has adopted the resolution of the National Council of 10. Is it true that the Commission has taken the matter seriously on July 1997? – I have to doubt that very much. In addition, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has also tabled a motion for a resolution which I would like to make briefly: [[Quoted print version removed]] This proposal has a deeper meaning, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, which you are present here, but also ladies and gentlemen. The Federal Government has an instrument in its hands, which is at least always free, namely: on an international level, with its missing alliance partners – they would certainly like to participate! – at least once to ensure cost reliability in this area. Why has there been no more investment in nuclear power plants in the United States for years and days? – Because there is another right of compensation! Because, after the accident on Three Mile Island, all nuclear power plants have noticed what it means to have such a power plant, because, if only the slightest incident occurs, they have to face damages that they cannot afford. In the United States, it is known that nuclear power plants are insecure risks, and that is, in the end, they cannot be operated economically. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] That's the jumping point! However, since we have a different legal system in continental Europe, after which something cannot be filed in court, if there are no liability rights, we must use our entire political weight in Europe to ensure that we have adequate liability rights. That would teach the French and Germans wonder, and the flag of the "cheek French nuclear current" would once and for all be off the table! - First of all. Secondly, all those countries that have early realized that this is a mistake, and also an economic one that has always known that the final storage is unfinancing – I am not talking about the risks at all! – finally, get the bonus for doing the right policy. Thirdly, it would, of course, also be a prerequisite for EU accession. It is unreasonable and really scandalous that the candidate countries will be given feasibility studies from the West, for example for Dukovany, but that they will not be explained to them the commercial side, what it really means in the long term – in Schilling, in Mark, in Krones or in any currency – when you make these misinvestments, and that this will cost decades, for generations, at tens of thousands of years. – The ladies and gentlemen of the 100 percent VOEST daughter, who is "at random" located in the Federal Republic of Germany, probably do not agree with this in the feasibility study. It will have been a purely technical feasibility study. I would also like to say the following: Technical feasibility studies are no better than the technical assumptions you make when making such a study. So if one assumes that no incident occurs, then the feasibility study is quite elegant. However, if one also formulates a feasibility study economically, one must consider the disturbance and its costs. I therefore believe that it would be time for the Federal Government to submit a nuclear liability law at least in Austria. How do you want to demand this internationally if you do not introduce it yourself in Austria? . For this reason, my group, as my group has already tabled such a draft law in this House, has tabled a proposal for a deadline which will still be put to the vote today. Finally, a note on the 13th. On 1 November 1996, on the position of the ÖVP at the time: Mr Klubobmann Khol, having delivered his avoidable calls here, left the hall. But he's going to be in this high house on the 13th. It is also more often remembered in November 1996, because the ÖVP and its members in the European Parliament were the first to break Austrian solidarity on the nuclear question by voting in close against the Austrian atomic line! [[In the case of the Liberal Forum, the Greens and the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] In that respect, it was not even the determination of the Federal Chancellor that Austria is a country in which all the parties are drawing on a line, right – this House concerning already, but not the European Parliament. We must be ashamed of those Members of the European Union who are still seeking to talk about it, as Mr Stenzel and as they all call it. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Rack! Rübig!]] But we'll hide it. And I think we should try at international level to make a contribution to energy reason by cost-truth. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Puttinger.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Flemming!]] - Yes, also Flemming. I therefore ask, in particular, the ÖVP Members: Talk to your ladies and gentlemen in the European Parliament so that they do not completely withdraw, just sit in Strasbourg and no longer know what is happening in Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00111_d7e4277	The text of the motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Gabriela Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00111_d7e4305	Mr President. Mr Bundeskanzler, not present. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Mr. State Secretary is here!]] Very significant for the importance of nuclear policy in the Federal Chancellor is certainly his current attitude: He's not here. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: But the State Secretary! The expert!]] The nuclear policy is for him – that is symbolic and shows him by his non-presence – secondary, secondary, third-class. Against this background, I would say that nuclear policy could again become the main issue, that Mrs Prammer should take over the Federal Chancellor's Office and thus give new emphasis to nuclear policy. – That would be the right answer for me to the current behaviour of the Federal Chancellor. He said here very detailed and urgent that he wanted to pursue a serious, active, responsible nuclear policy. He did promise a lot, but the contrast between what was spoken and that, as is done, is very clear, very large, yes blatant, and shows again what secondary importance the active, quite concrete nuclear policy has for our Federal Chancellor here and now in this House. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Call the ÖVP: Get to the point!]] I would now like to make this very specific and not like you, Mr President, or your group or your colleague, Bauer, to abuse this House for the Lower Austrian election campaign. I don't want to. I don't lose a word about it. That's your business, that's your stage. It's too much for me. Let us simply come back to the very concrete possibilities of action that are not being perceived at the moment! Let's just start from the beginning! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Mühlbachler.]] There has been an Alpine convention since the 1980s. The energy protocol is still in place for this purpose. Throughout the years, this energy protocol shows the easing of the Federal Government's nuclear course, especially the Minister for the Environment. If it was originally the case that the Alpine region is not suitable for the stationing and construction of nuclear power plants, the second version of this draft on the Alpine Convention's energy protocol is only the point of being guided by international conventions. – The Minister for the Environment and the Austrian Federal Government has contributed to this irrigation. But now it's even worse, because there's a third draft. And it will be watered down further, because now, in this third draft of the Energy Protocol to the Alpine Convention, it is said that we only want to inform each other. – No more talking about nuclear power plants not fitting into the Alpine region! No more talk about the need for international agreements to be observed! It's just the talk about informing. – And that is what the Federal Government’s attitude documents, which makes the concrete actions and omissions of the Federal Government so clear. Second example: I used to be in Temelin myself. The Czech side is now preparing an opinion on whether to complete the technical and financial framework at all. At the end of March, this opinion will then be evaluated at the beginning of April, and the current transitional government will consider whether it will not take a construction stop, whether it should already complete this project. What possibility would there be now? What should you do? What should happen? Don't you just talk? – This is a command of the hour! You should design an exit scenario. You should present a study that proves the exit to be feasible. They should also be hard to put on the table a cost calculation and alternative financing concepts that show that EURATOM funds, with EU funds, allow an exit or conversion to a gas or steam power plant. This is also possible – another concrete example – in Dukovany. Please, we want the zero option, we don't want an intermediate warehouse, we don't want an extension of the intermediate warehouse, because an extension means that the operation of the unfortunately scrapped reactor in Dukovany will be extended. And you point out here in the course of this debate that the deadline for application is not 30 days, but 50 days, and you have already sent a letter anyway and you will draw up an informed and serious opinion within these 50 days. What we have done in 1992 is essential – and this is a step backwards – that you are clearly protesting that you are working politically, that every Austrian and every Austrian can take a stand against this power plant, against the expansion of the camp. Please, this is a step backwards from 1992, a step backwards by the current Minister for the Environment Bartenstein against Mrs Rauch-Kallat, a step backwards from the current Chancellor's climate towards Vranitzky. I can document this on the basis of individual, very specific examples. The Alpine Convention was an example, another Temelin, and the third example is Dukovany. And now I'm coming to Mochovce and Bohunice. There have been objections from many Austrians, 1.2 million of them. And what are you doing now? – They resort to the discussion on safety standards, they withdraw to the demand for a second walkdown, where possible the second walkdown with this safety opinion is the Persilschein for commissioning in June. Because safety standards can be discussed long and wide. One claims, yes, they are, the other claims, no, they are not. Digging with this process They practically take off the water themselves and above all allow the operation also of Bohunice. This is a concrete fact, and this is also the result of your inactive nuclear policy. Now I come to the next point, namely the EU Presidency. Mr Bundeskanzler said he would not want to polarize during the EU Presidency as President of the European Community. Please, is there a link between anti-atomic policy and nuclear policy? – I think there's only one or two. In this case one must polarize. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In this case, it must be clear, concrete values. In this case, there is no either-as-ouch, but only one-oder. The Federal Chancellor said, in an interim remark to Mrs Petrovic's speech, that he was in favour of an exit policy, that he was in favour of continuing the goal of an exit scenario. Only: In concrete terms, he's not doing anything. What can be done? – Miscellaneous: There are concepts, funding proposals, zero options that are calculated, proposals for energy saving. It would open up a new dimension for the Austrian industry or for the Austrian labour market, if one were to force this changeover market, this transition market in our neighbouring countries in the East, by abandoning the discussion about security standards. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] In this context, I would like to add our motion for a resolution, which concerns three points. [[Quoted print version removed]] These are very concrete possibilities. In this way visions could become reality. I believe that this would be a realistic nuclear policy.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00111_d7e4433	The motion for a resolution which Mrs Dr Moser has just tabled has been submitted in accordance with the rules of procedure and is sufficiently supported. He is involved in the negotiations. It's Mrs. Federal Minister Mag. Prammer to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00111_d7e4457	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! First of all, Mrs Moser: I would like to tell you, but not just you alone, but everyone, that the Federal Chancellor has gone on an appointment that had been agreed for a very long time. I also say to which, because I believe that this is important. On the occasion of the day of thought 12. March 1938, a commemorative event will be held at the Faculty of Medicine of the University of Vienna – and I think Austria is well advised to do so – in which the leading representative of the Federal Government will also be present and give a speech. [[Abg. Dr Gredler: I can confirm that!]] [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Not least, Chernobyl's catastrophe was "necessary" – under quotation marks – so that in Austria consensus could be given to refrain from any use of nuclear energy – both civilian and military. However, this should not only be the case in Austria, but of course we will make our commitment everywhere in order to make our anti-Nuclear policy also a majority; we will fight to find alliance partners. The Austrian Federal Government, of course, wants to do this, especially with a view to strengthening its commitment to the European Union and increasing its pioneering role. I recognise in the Austrian Federal Government's strategy two ways that we have taken and want to continue. First of all – and this seems to me to be particularly important – is good and close cooperation with environmental organisations, with NGOs. I say very clearly and clearly here that last year precisely the environmental organizations have negotiated very thoroughly with the representatives of the Federal Government and that, in agreement with these environmental organizations, we have finally written the paper of the Federal Government, which was then also decided in the Council of Ministers. I would like to stress this track so much because I know that it is this cooperation which is the quality of Austrian anti-atomic policy. I believe that you, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, today did not do a good job in Austria's anti-atomic policy. Because what signals are we sending out now? . We send out signals of disunity beyond Austrian borders, as if Austria were actually beginning to waver in any way in its conviction that it wants an atomic-free Europe to adopt, in general and in general, nuclear policy. I also believe that it is important and necessary that this unity, this alliance, which is given in Austria, remains an essential part because we can only signal it beyond the Austrian borders: These are not only the aspirations of a Federal Chancellor, a Federal Minister, a Federal Government, but the aspirations of the entire population. This is exactly what the quality is, and it is a matter of seeing us abroad, both in neighboring countries and in the more distant regions. This is an interaction where we support each other and can thus also force and continue the lobbying that we have to do at international level. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to support this very concretely on the basis of some examples, for example – because it has also been addressed and is so up-to-date – from the example of the Slovak nuclear power plant Mochovce. Since we have been very intensive on the part of the Federal Government, we are working very hard – the Federal Chancellor with many talks at the ministerial level, at the colleague level – to demand all that was promised. Finally, this agreement has come to mean that the walkdown can take place. It will not be quite easy to go beyond what has been achieved there and what this report looks like. And because it was said that this report will eventually come when Mochovce will be in operation for a long time: That is exactly what we have not agreed on, but this report will be available in time, in a very, very short time, so that the Federal Government can, of course, take further initiatives accordingly. I believe that this coalition of reason between environmental organizations, the population, if one wants to do so, and the Federal Government shows that we are serious about our policy. International lobbying, international advertising must be the second essential strategy. Austria alone can and will not make the way out of nuclear policy. You're going to have to do it together. Of course, we need alliance partners, and this is exactly what we are looking for in the many contacts with ministerial colleagues from abroad. The Federal Chancellor gives no opportunity to address the respective Heads of Government on this issue and to press for an exit from nuclear energy. And, of course, we have already received signals from the various Member States of the European Union, far not enough as we would have liked, but it is important to continue this lobbying. This consistent and intensive search for contact must be filled with life at all levels. Finally, I believe that Austria already knows where its borders lie, that Austria also knows where its opportunities lie, namely in a common European concept, which must be developed and which will eventually lead to the exit from nuclear energy. Let me say a few words about what has been presented in the media over and over again these days, namely that the Chancellor of the Federal Republic has supposedly declared the chief issue non-chef and transferred his competence to a "small" minister. This statement is very personal to me because it comes from Members who know very well that you have transferred the competence of radiation protection to me here in plenary as well as the President of the Federal Government. And I mean, if you take radiation protection seriously, it can not only be about developing concepts and early warning systems, introducing the best computer, but then you also have to make sure that it doesn't even come to a serious case. I am trying to implement this policy in addition to what the Federal Chancellor brings in daily with his work in my field of competence. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I also want to lose a few words on Dukovany. I have tried to communicate a lot in the last few days, but obviously the messages have not arrived. I would just like to remind you that, as soon as it became known that an environmental impact study has been drawn up in the Czech Republic, we have gassed it. We also got her immediately, and she's new and not old. It also has new technical and technological content. It is not old knowledge that we have to deal with. New procedures, new technologies are being used, which will necessarily be assessed by the Austrian side. And that's exactly what we're doing now. However, I also wanted to say "lawful" – under quotations – in so far as there can be any timeliness in this legal area, the Czech Government, in concrete terms to the new Czech Environment Minister, in advance, that there will still be detailed expertise on the subject to our objection, which will be transmitted to the Czech Government in the next few days, at the latest in ten days. I think it is more important to present sound scientific statements than to reach a headline in a daily newspaper. I also believe that it is in the interests of the population to act very knowledgeably and responsibly here. I have also – and you know that – invited the affected, neighbouring states to join in with the opposition of the Federal Government. Of course, I immediately sent this study to the Federal States of Upper Austria, Lower Austria and Vienna. I also, of course, immediately submitted this study to the environmental organisations. They know that there are new findings or a new facts. I have already announced – and this will also be dealt with in the Council of Ministers, and I assume that a decision will also be taken – that we will, of course, insist – in my letter to the Czech Environment Minister I have already done so – that the objections that the Austrian population has, as well as the objections of the Czech population on the government side, are taken seriously. By the way – I say that –: I am also on the list of those who have objected to the Dukovany enlargement project – not one of the 1.2 million high-ends, but one that has de facto signed. I am confident that, after the elections in the Czech Republic, we will find political conditions which will allow us to better prepare nuclear energy's exit policy – not only as regards Dukovany, but also, of course, as far as Temelin is concerned. Because the Espoo Convention and the topic of deadlines have been adapted several times: It is a fact that the Czech Republic has not ratified this Convention and we are therefore in a legal-free area. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: They signed them!]] We act as if the Czech Republic had signed this convention, and from that point on we are also claiming our rights, our "Fast Rights", from that point on. Ladies and gentlemen! I am convinced that it is important and necessary for us to continue the paths that have been taken so far by Austria, and to make every effort to ensure that Austria does not remain a single country in which the population, together with the political forces, makes common cause in the sense of an exit from nuclear policy. And I wish or expect from each of you, of course from every political party, that we support and strengthen this common strategy. That's what the Federal Chancellor said. I can't say it often enough: Only together we are strong! Only together can we move something: at international level, in Europe and perhaps even beyond! – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00111_d7e4540	The next item is the speech by Mr Otmar Brix. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00111_d7e4565	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! In the spring of last year, a conference of the United Opposition of Slovakia was held in Bratislava, which dealt with the subject of Mochovce, and this opposition, which is a gnarled opposition, has clearly led us into its dramatic situation. Ladies and gentlemen! The following is very interesting: At this conference, Mrs Rauch-Kallat, Mr Oberhaidinger and I were present. Of the Greens, despite this important theme, as far as the eye was concerned, there was no trace! But that's clear: At that time, no country election was in sight, and therefore this was not an issue for the Greens, or this was so important for the people, especially for those in Lower Austria and in Vienna, for the Greens. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Langthaler.]] You, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, did not care about Dukovany, Bohunice, Temelin and Mochovce at the time. No country election – no interest! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: Deputies! That should not be your level!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The disappointment, my colleague, Langthaler, was really great. But just now this issue is of sudden interest to you, because in two weeks in Lower Austria country elections will take place suddenly. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: Who has done this for the past few years?]] Don't just make calls, that's too little! Interest You're for the people in Austria! Interest You are only about 70 kilometres away for the Vienna and the Lower Austrians, who live very close to the nuclear power plants mentioned above! [[New call of the abg. Ing. Langthaler.]] Mr Langthaler! Are you interested all year round for the people in Austria who are afraid of these "death power plants"! Are you interested in the people in Vienna who live only 70 kilometres away from these reactors! Take part in the concerns of people in Austria all year round, then when it comes to representing interests. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Vienna has always expressed solidarity with all the federal states. Der Wiener ==References====External links==* Official website A resolution at the request of the relevant Environmental City Council decided that the planned nuclear mill in the Czech Dukovany should not go into operation. And in this resolution... [[Abg. Young: Hot air they have produced!]] That's not true! There was a decision referring to an unacceptablely high risk potential. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Young.]] Mr President, it would be better if you didn't say so. I have to tell you that green is actually the colour symbiosis of blue and yellow, and the blues and the yellows were not at the Mochovce conference either. Only the representatives of the government parties participated in it in addition to the Slovak opposition. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] It would be better if you wouldn't mention it. Let Mr Schweitzer talk about it, because this one understands more about this issue than you do. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Young: More than you still understand!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The decision of the Vienna Municipal Council points out the importance of the Czech ratification of the Espoo Agreement as soon as possible. Today, the Vienna Environment Councillor Fritz Svihalek stated in a press release on this meeting – I quote literally – : "We will support the Federal Government in its efforts to prevent the construction of the Dukovany power plant, for so far the government has already done very well in its arguments against Dukovany." [[Abg. Young: What are the effects?]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let me briefly say something about this in the example of Temelin. Already in 1985, the Communist government in Czechoslovakia began the construction of the Temelin mammoth project. Today, it is noted that the cost calculation for this power plant cannot do something. [[Abg. Young: That's like Austria! That's not where the cost bills are going!]] In the Czech Republic today, under the leadership of the chairman of the House of Deputies Milos Zeman, the Czech Social Democrats are saying that they want to carry out an examination of the Temelin power plant in the event of an election. So it is the Czech Social Democrats who are taking the initiative there too! Ladies and gentlemen! This topic is far too serious to use it populistly in the form of a special session for the election campaign. I believe that we all have within us the fears of the Chernobyl disaster. That is why I ask you: Play Not with the fear of the Austrian population! Make As Austrian democratic parties, you do not take the path of special meetings, but as Austrian democratic parties together with the Federal Government, together with the Foreign Minister, the Federal Chancellor, the Minister for the Environment and the Minister for Women, because only when Austria is closed will we be taken seriously internationally, all those countries who are willing to join will become aware of it! We must understand that if we fail to meet our demands on nuclear power plants, it will not be as easy to join the EU as some imagine. Only then, if we act together on this issue, can we achieve our goal as well!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00111_d7e4708	The next item is the speech by Mr Spindelegger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00111_d7e4729	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! One thing I would like to say: A lot is actually not left of the urgent question we have to discuss here today! The accusation number one that the Federal Government has been completely inactive has proved to be false according to statements by the Federal Chancellor, the Minister for Women and the Minister for the Environment, who is currently on the move in Budapest in the performance of his duties. The opposite is the case: An opinion of the Federal Government, which will be transmitted in a diplomatic way, and next week a conference of the Czech Foreign Minister with Federal Minister Schüssel, on which important interests of Austria will be crediblely represented in this matter. The second accusation of you, who was spirited by the Gazettes and was present in all press releases, is that Lower Austria and its national government would not have done anything in this matter. Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== On behalf of the Lower Austrian state government, Dr. Fall objected to the Ministry of the Environment in the Czech Republic – as I mean, very good reasons. Questions of safety which have not yet been adequately resolved in the extension of the Dukovany nuclear waste storage site were raised, further questions relating to the warning system in the event of accidents, and the question of the integration of Lower Austria, which is particularly affected by the nearby nuclear waste storage and has very important interests in this regard. Ladies and gentlemen! Even this accusation has actually sunk in nothing. The third accusation, expressed by Mr Kier today, was that there was no nuclear liability law in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! Yesterday, the Minister of Justice sent a draft law on this subject in review. I therefore ask: What has become of this accusation? – He too has sunk in nothing. One more thing remains to be said to me, and I should like to make it clear to you, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens: If you explain here that you have to discuss this topic seriously, and your new Federal spokesman Van der Bellen, according to an APA issue of 6. In March 1998, if nuclear weapons were to be stationed, only all-rounders would be in question, and the estimated colleague Gabriela Moser here in the House today sends a message to the staff with the warning: We are threatened with the stationing of nuclear weapons! "Almoststeig could become an atomic playing field, then I must tell you that I believe that the reason for this your urgent question today, for which your action is less of that, is that they have insufficient information, but rather that the place of Allensteig is located in Lower Austria. There is really no other explanation for this! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to express very clearly the attitude of the EIA in nuclear policy: We from the ÖVP are opposed to a stationing of nuclear weapons now and later! That's a clear statement. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We do not need to write great legislation to that end. Read the Criminal Code, § 177a! There is the following: Those who produce, process or develop nuclear, biological or chemical means intended for mass destruction, import into, export, export or purchase from or through the domestic territory, possess or leave or provide for another person with a term of imprisonment of up to ten years. I mean, That's all! That's forbidden by punishment. Up to ten years of imprisonment, the one who violates this ban is threatened. We do not need to put this provision into the Constitution, because neither is the crime of "murder" in the Constitution, and no one will doubt that murder is prohibited in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There are still a number of other legislation that prohibit this. For example, I call the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, a contract signed by Austria, or our State Treaty. So there is a range of rules in Austria that are quite clear about this. I would like to say the following, because you always point to your security competence as a green person and now try to develop new methods: From the fact that you are in the troop practice place In general, we want to see nuclear weapons stationed, a lot becomes visible! I ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens: On a troop practice site on which a sharp shot will be shot, on the plane, the tank defense and the artillery of the federal army to test their weapons in the sharp shot, would you suspect a nuclear camp? – That’s, my Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, security-political incompetence! You really don't have to say anything to that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let me draw the following summary: This urgent question, which you, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, have given us today and because of which all of us have been called here, has really only one urgent reason, namely the 22. March! But you will not succeed with your action; I am prophesying to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00111_d7e4828	The next item is the speech by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. Voluntary time limit: Five minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00111_d7e4858	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I can now turn to the still pending motion for a resolution by my colleague, Mr Magistrate. Sweitzer, an application concerning the risks of EU enlargement in the example of nuclear policy. [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Now there are four greens! It's progress! The Partyobmann and the Clubobmann still not!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The Wabl is still missing! They are all in the election campaign, Mr President.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I should now like to talk about what the Federal Chancellor has said. He said that he was calling himself an active anti-atomic policy, and he thought it was essential that those nuclear power plants in operation had international safety standards. I mean, there is a wrong access, because it will not be possible to bring the Eastern nuclear power plants, which are scrap miles, to international or Western standards. This is not to be achieved by means of a "hybrid technique" which would be given from the link between East reactors and Western security technology. I think it is absurd when German Chancellors say that we cannot, after all, demand that France or the Federal Republic of Germany be excluded from the European Union, and therefore it would not be reasonable for candidate countries to refuse accession in the context of the enlargement of the East. It is not nuclear realism, ladies and gentlemen, that is not it! That is why I am saying this because the comparison with the exclusion of France and Germany was made. I do not wish to mention the fact that Greifswald, a hybrid plant, as I described it earlier, did not go into operation because it is not possible in Germany. However, we clearly assume that nuclear reactors are being put into operation, which have been scrapped from the start. I believe that a language system must be found – and that in the context of EU enlargement – which also clearly expresses what is close to the security needs of the Austrians. Mr Meciar has made it quite clear that he does not think about it – not even by way of approach! – to close Bohunice when the unloved Mochovce nuclear power plant goes into operation, although there is a promise in this respect. I believe that anti-atomic policy is to be considered very precisely, particularly in connection with the accession of the former Eastern Bloc countries to the European Union, and I hope that, in the course of the activities of the Federal Government, the possibility of resolving the issue of greenhouse effect or the warming of the atmosphere, of the CO2 problem, possibly then through nuclear currents from the East reactors, from the scrap miles of the candidate countries, in order to meet the demands. I hope that you will not go on this track. Finally, let me say a sentence to the ÖVP's address to support their "belief". Mrs Flemming spoke on 15 May. In May 1997 the European Parliament announced the following: In order not to be misunderstood: Nuclear energy may be a very great opportunity for mankind, but we will still have to invest a lot of money and also time in research. It would be irresponsible not to develop this young technology further. - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen! I would ask you to consider whether this is the right way for an anti-atomic policy in Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00111_d7e4960	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hofmann has already been distributed, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The next speaker was Mr Hans Helmut Moser. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00111_d7e4987	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! [[Call at the ÖVP:... Fall in Lower Austria!]] You will see that we will be very successful in the Lower Austrian country election. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] All the time, my colleague, Mr Khol, has been living longer and longer. That's what I've noticed. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: 3 percent!]] Three mandates, Mr Khol. We'll see! We can debate this later. I'm allowed to invite you to the party. Ladies and gentlemen! So far, this was a very interesting debate, just what I couldn't find out – dear Herbert Scheibner, paid attention to a bit! – is the urgency for this special meeting today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Disc]] While nuclear policy is a very up-to-date issue, I believe that it is necessary to have a permanent discussion on the failure of the Federal Government because it is clear that the non-acting or non-effective action of the Federal Government on nuclear policy issues is a permanent state. Therefore, there is a need for constant discussion in the House to bring a little movement into the discussion and also into Austrian politics. Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that the Federal Government is correct shows once again the resolution tabled by the two government parties today, because they believe that it is indeed necessary for a new resolution by the National Council to be implemented by the Federal Government in order to implement the previous resolutions of the House and to become active in relation to the issue of environmental impact assessment in the extension of the nuclear camp in Dukovany. What we demand from the Federal Government and from you, Mrs. Federal Minister Prammer, is that actions are finally set, conferences are not constantly held and beautiful speeches, Sunday speeches, but that actions follow: Acting in connection with the implementation of the resolution of the National Council of July 1997, acts relating to the environmental impact assessment Dukovany, but also measures and steps so that we can finally come to an nuclear liability law in our country. Mrs Bundesminister, I do not understand that you here in Parliament claim that the Chernobyl disaster has only taken place in order to achieve a political consensus in Austria. As far as I remember, as far as the procedures are concerned, the Chernobyl disaster occurred in 1986. A vote on the use of nuclear energy in Austria took place in 1978. This gave a clear result, and therefore the parties in the House, out of respect for the decision of the people, represented a clear anti-atomic policy. The Federal Minister is expected to have a deficit in this respect. Ladies and gentlemen! I also do not understand the policy of the Greens on this issue, because in principle it is not very acceptable: On the one hand, unrealistic demands are repeatedly raised, it is argued with fear-making or even with false information. With this, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, you do nothing good. What we Liberals want is an objective discussion and also an extension of political consensus on this issue in our country. In this way, the motion for a resolution tabled by the Liberals today – read by Mr Hofmann – is also of little use. If we want all parties to bear this anti-Atom policy, then such motions for resolutions do not do so. From our point of view, they are unfair and unrealistic, because they are unrealistic and unfair, especially in relation to the candidate countries in the European Union, because, on the one hand, their accession is made conditional on the success of the European Union's policies and, on the other, they are intended to impose demands on the candidate countries which the countries of the European Union themselves cannot fulfil. That is unfair, that is unfair and does not mean equal treatment! That is why we will reject this motion for a resolution. Ladies and gentlemen! I have said that the Federal Government is also in a position to implement the motion for a resolution. Mrs. Federal Minister! It is high time that all those points adopted by the National Council in July 1997 were also gradually implemented in a resolution, for example in the field of education and education at international level. There is no information yet and no documentation on what you will actually do during the EU Presidency. The Federal Chancellor has also given us no clear information and no information on this matter today. He said: Something will happen. – What will happen, however, he has not said. We are also concerned with reducing existing additional risks and how they can be avoided. I believe that it makes sense and is necessary to discuss the question of reducing the risks of nuclear power plants in the acceding countries, to minimise the risks and also to work with emphasis on Austria and to provide help to renegotiate the question of bilateral agreements in the energy sector, particularly in the context of radiation protection and safety. The people, the population in our country and the region concerned have a legitimate right to safety in connection with the use of nuclear energy. I also miss measures by the Federal Government regarding civil protection. Mrs. Federal Minister! That's not what I'm saying. Her original competence, civil protection issues are matters of the Ministry of the Interior, but you are also invited to become a "minister of radiation protection", such as She called the Federal Chancellor today to be introduced to the Minister for the Interior so that concrete measures can be taken in this regard. The need to improve legal instruments: Mr Kier has already presented the position of our Liberals, and we have also tabled a motion for a resolution to that effect. It is necessary that a corresponding nuclear liability directive be adopted at European level too. This would be an issue, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, which could bring Austria to the EU Presidency in its presidency. I now come to the environmental impact assessment procedure concerning Dukovany. Ladies and gentlemen and Mrs Federal Minister, the Federal Government must very well be accused of being sparse or of having at least a lot of time left itself. It would have been necessary to be able to discuss the expertise – and the objection that the Federal Government will at all events bring – within the framework of Parliament, within the framework of a committee. Dukovany is a very sensitive matter, and the population is rightly concerned. Austria has not only Dukovany in its neighborhood, but also Mochovce, Temelin and Bohunice. It is therefore necessary to take very concrete action by the political leaders and also by the Lower Austrian Government to do something about this. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Bauer and Mr Spindelegger: Mr Pröll has also been inactive and has not done anything so far. Only now, due to the public debate, has the Environment Commissioner of the Lower Austrian Government, five minutes before twelve, filed a corresponding objection. – That, ladies and gentlemen, was really just an alibi action due to the ongoing public debate. That is why I am also holding back Mr Pröll's statements when he declared that he would do everything in his power to enforce his position against the border nuclear power plants and nuclear mills in the Czech Republic and Slovakia, for nothing but white cynicism, because in the meantime, the head of state Pröll did nothing in the Landtag. While other national governments or councils, such as those in Vienna, have decided resolutions, nothing has happened in Lower Austria! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Dautzenberg, for his excellent report. Therefore, no resolution on the initiative of the Liberals could be adopted in the Lower Austrian Landtag. You know exactly – and if you say something else, then you say it against better knowledge – that, in order to make such a request, it needs six signatures on the basis of the legal basis, but our group would only have brought together three signatures. Therefore, no corresponding initiative could be set by the Liberals. On the question in which we were initiative, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Dautzenberg has unfortunately failed. This must also be said about objectivity and truth at this point. Finally, I would like to comment briefly on one point, because it has been mentioned in the urgent question of the Greens. This is the question of the stationing of nuclear weapons. [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] Mr President. I come to the conclusion: Mrs Kammerlander will certainly come to the speaker's desk and explain for a long time and wide the dangers of the stationing of nuclear weapons in our country. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: What is that?]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Kammerlander: These are the known untruths and false information you use in your political argumentation, and therefore it is unreasonable how you conduct the discussion on this question. [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign again]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00111_d7e5081	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Kammerlander. Your club still has a 6 minute speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00111_d7e5103	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen. - I'll wait until the red light expires. This is like a prophecy already announced in front of me at the speaker's desk, which I will talk about. [[Abg. Haigermoser: I saw you laughing for the first time! And not even in the basement!]] I would like to begin by saying that the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany has almost missed part of the answer to the first question. The first question was whether he would be committed to the fact that certain points will be included in the nuclear package. One point that he has not mentioned at all – and that, Mr Moser, gives cause for thought – is that he has not addressed the prohibition of possession, use, manufacture, transit and stationing of nuclear weapons, including the establishment of appropriate infrastructure. It is clear that we are not talking about "Austrian" nuclear weapons here. This has already been said by one of my previous speakers from the Green Club. This is about the nuclear weapons of other states and nationalities, about infrastructure, about the provision and transit of such weapons in a NATO membership or another military alliance. In this respect, there is currently no legal regulation at all that covers it. [[Abg. Hans Helmut Moser: NATO has no support points!]] Mr Spindelegger! You know that very well. You don't need to come with the criminal code. This is nonsensical in this context. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We are not talking about Austrian nuclear weapons or Austrian citizens. We are talking about a possible membership at a military alliance, of transit and stationing... [[Abg. Dr. Khol: This applies to all nuclear weapons! This applies to all nuclear weapons, Mrs Kammerlander!]] No, that's not true for all nuclear weapons! That can't apply to everyone. In this situation, we are talking about the transit and stationing of foreign weapons. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Right now! From everyone! Of course it applies to everyone! Read the criminal law! That would be good for you.]] That can't be, for Mr. Bundeskanzler has, for example – Mr. Klubobmann Khol would have listened to you! – gave a very clear answer. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I listened!]] It has, in fact, distinguished between war and crisis and peace times. He has rightly disagreed; he has already done so in an answer to a question that we asked him some time ago, in which he has literally said: It must be noted that NATO reserves the right to station troops or nuclear weapons on the territory of other Member States in times of crisis. - Quote. So there is probably the possibility in a NATO membership of Austria that nuclear weapons will be stationed or implemented on our State territory. And that's the point. You should finally see this, and you should also admit that an agreement, as it states NATO or has actually concluded with Hungary or the Czech Republic, does not help at all, as it applies only to times of peace. Even the special treaty with the Member State of Denmark applies only to times of peace and not to the case of war and crisis. But it is interesting that, in the course of today's debate, obviously something like an approach has emerged if I can follow the words of my previous speaker, Spindelegger, who said: He wants to hold on once and for all and say for the future that he is opposed to the stationing of nuclear weapons. Is this position not different from its positioning in an article in the "Falter" in which it is quoted in such a way that Austria should not be tied up now because one does not know what it will be if it will be NATO member? It is not that one wants to station nuclear weapons in Austria, but one should not tie hands now. - Quote. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If we are so absurd about allotment-place, I wonder why it is not possible for our clubwoman Petrovic to visit and visit this military practice-place. According to the information of Brigadier Teszar, who is responsible for this military practice, it is not possible – not now and not after the Lower Austrian country elections – that we as Members can visit this military practice. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: She's already there! She's not here anymore! What do you want to do there?]] If everything is as harmless as you're trying to sell us that, then we can probably see it and take a look at it ourselves. At the end of my speech, I would like to make another motion for a resolution aimed at nuclear-free zones. If this is so important to you, as the Federal Chancellor has said, we do not need to refer to the whole of Europe. You can look at this card again! [[The speaker holds a map with the title "Nuclear weapon free Nations in Europe".]] They see that there is a wide range of links across Central Europe: These are green countries that are de facto nuclear-free today. And it is not about leaving it in this de facto state, but about creating a legal, a legal anchorage of international law. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is my understanding of an foreign policy that creates peace and secures peace. Such a nuclear-free zone in Central Europe could indeed be a gesture of Russia, a gesture of reconciliation, and could actually produce something in Europe. [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign]] Follow this request!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00111_d7e5257	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and will be included in the negotiations. Mr Dr. Doppelmüller spoke. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00111_d7e5281	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! First: I was very upset when I received the invitation to this special meeting, because it was just "achievable" – and it was also clear – that there is a direct connection here with the country election in Lower Austria, and because it cannot be a coincidence that the Greens could speak very critically in advance in the ORF, in the "Report", but also in the "ZiB 2". I'm just saying, Tag Kössler, keyword Thurnher; but that was probably a coincidence. It is being tried to give a platform to your colleague Weinzinger, the top candidate of the Greens, and it is obvious that nuclear policy is the only issue that you may be able to scare and score people in Lower Austria. But now I am not so much annoyed, because today's session was quite useful; it was useful in so far as the Federal Chancellor and the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs were very clearly able to represent the position of the government, but also the social democracy, the nuclear question or anti-atomism. There is the problem that many people do not want to hear what has been repeated. I would like to point out, for example, that Mrs Prammer has clearly said the following: We didn't need Chernobyl to wake up. Mr Moser has twisted this statement exactly. Some simply do not want to see that a detailed presentation and an opinion are necessary to achieve a proper solution in Dukovany and not a 08/15 solution. I therefore believe that the attempt to bring about a nuclear failure by the Federal Government has failed. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But it was very interesting – I am actually amused – that four parties, apart from the Social Democrats, of course, have shown very "schlussy", i.e. contradictions in the nuclear policy of the other parties. Great was Mr Schweitzer, who really practiced this perfectly in the example of Langthaler. [[Detonatative condolences of the Abg. Meisinger]] But quite original was also Mr Hofmann, who quoted Mrs Flemming – if it is true. On the other hand, Mr Moser has prophesied what Mrs Kammerlander is going to say, and he has met with it in black. That was all very interesting. Ladies and gentlemen! We will probably have the opportunity to return to a reasonable debate in a few days or weeks, because we will have on the agenda in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, and we will be able to review our resolution of July last year, but also the four-month-old package of measures by the Federal Government based on expert hearings. We will certainly insist that small Austria is still a pioneer in Europe in anti-atomic policy, as we are in many areas of environmental policy. This shows certain fruits, for we know that Sweden was the first to be seen in Sweden. The first nuclear reactor will be put out of operation on July 1. Milos Zeman, the hopefully future Czech Prime Minister, has already said critical things in this direction. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Chief.]] Mr President, I should like to thank you In the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, we shall certainly discuss this in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, in particular how we can help these countries get out of nuclear technology. Austria has already done so with the Eastern Fund. I am therefore quite optimistic that we will return to a reasonable common anti-atomic policy, and I would like to quote from the urgent request made by the Greens, page 1: "Austria needs a serious debate on the state and future of its anti-atomic policy." [[Abg. May. Main: In NATO!]] We want this to be done by social democrats, that is what the government wants – and hopefully we can return after this special meeting.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00111_d7e5340	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Stummful. 10 minutes of voluntary time limit. That's exactly the rest of the time that's left out of your club. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00111_d7e5369	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! After the previous debate, allow me to begin with a preliminary remark. It is only good that all of us here in this House are supporters of parliamentary democracy, that we all confess to minority rights. If that were not the case, there would have to be massive criticism of the convening of this special meeting of the National Council. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] In fact, ladies and gentlemen, this is an enormous amount of money. The Chancellor has demonstrated that the urgency is not there, because it is not the 30-days-frist, but the 50-days-frist. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: That's not true!]] Secondly, all the accusations were rejected in this discussion. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: This too is wrong!]] Thirdly, it has become clear that it is a panic to beat out political small money for the country election campaign. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: You say nothing but wrong all the time!]] Let us be glad that we are committed to minority rights, for otherwise there would be no such meeting, Mrs Colleague. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: You are also a minority! Mr President, you are also a minority.]] I would like to say the following: We take the concerns and fears of our citizens very seriously – at least as seriously as you take them – but it cannot be the task of politics to make fear. Politics must take courage and proclaim future optimism, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: You are also a minority, my colleague! Don't you understand?]] What you're producing here are pure green horror scenarios. The fact that Mr Hazelsteiner is holding your bar has been experienced several times. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: You are a very small minority!]] This is part of the so-called traffic light, Mr. Hazelsteiner. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: You are a very small minority! You're a dinosaur!]] You've become very green lately! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Better green than black!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The uniosity of the convocation of this special parliamentary meeting have my predecessors... Aha, dear green-red. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Günter, did you hear the call? "Dear green as black!" The hazelsteiner said!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: No, no! Better green than black! That must be in the Minutes!]] [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Leave it quiet with green! There are even worse colors!]] Ladies and gentlemen! A number of previous speakers have already shown that the panic scene alone is completely absurd in itself. It is absurd, therefore, because we have committed ourselves to international law, because at the time we have incorporated it into the State Treaty, because the criminal code, Mrs Colleague, applies to all. Whoever produces, distributes, imports, exports or stores nuclear weapons in Austria is subject to criminal sanctions: with prison sentences for up to ten years. That's the point. Mr Van der Bellen! I have explained here from this speaker's desk and also publicly how much I appreciate you. But I have to say: Since you are spokesperson of the Greens, you have lost some credibility and seriosity for me. I have to make this restriction today. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: (a distance from around a centimeter) But just a little bit!]] Ladies and gentlemen! There is probably no other country in Europe that has pursued such a consistent anti-atomic policy and has performed a step-maker function for Europe as a whole, as has Austria. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: Because you never get out of Austria! Go abroad once!]] What I regret is that you are leaving a common line today on the grounds of the political small sum, Mrs Langthaler, a common line that we had in the summer of the previous year when we brought together a five-party resolution request. You are leaving the common line of this five-party union today, just because you believe you can reach a few more votes in the country election campaign in Lower Austria. You will see on the election day: It was for nothing! [[Intervocations with the Greens, the ÖVP and the Freeman!]] If there is environmental awareness – down from the head of state – in a country, the Lower Austria is. Mr Pröll has repeatedly demonstrated that he is the one who makes a credible environmental policy in Lower Austria – and the Greens are not needed to do so. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Prolonged calls.]] In the example of Dukovany, head of state Pröll has also shown that it is not an election slogan to say: "The country in good hands!" – Lower Austria is in good hands with the head of state Pröll! He objected in good time. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Hallelujah!]] We have already demonstrated – Rosemarie Bauerwas it –: For ten years, there has been a lawyer of his own for nuclear issues only. This is the internationally renowned lawyer Dr. Fall, internationally recognized as a specialist in nuclear questions. He was in Prague a few days ago, and again he deposited the opposition of Lower Austria. Our Minister for the Environment took the 24th place. ==References====External links== This is credible entry for environmental policy, ladies and gentlemen – but not panic or horror scenarios like those of the Greens! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: Why has nothing happened since 1992?]] The voters in Lower Austria – believe me! – will see through it. We will see at the next meeting how you cut off in Lower Austria. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: I know you are dependent and you can't say anything else!]] I can express my sympathy for your election situation today, which you will suffer in Lower Austria! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Haselsteiner is now particularly quiet, because he knows exactly that it is at the tip, whether the Liberals even enter the Landtag of Lower Austria again. This is up to the chicken, and I therefore understand that you are now so silent, Mr President. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: This has nothing to do with nuclear policy at all! Make a proper policy! You don't need to worry about us!]] [[Further lively calls to the liberals and the Greens.]] I've already noticed several times: The weaker your arguments are, the louder your voice, Mr. Hazelsteiner! The weaker your arguments, the louder your voice! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A word still related to the issues of East Enlargement and Nuclear Energy. As the former Foreign Minister, Mr Alois Mock, can confirm, it was the Greens who rejected it in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, three years ago, that the highest safety standards for eastern nuclear power stations should be required in the case of the enlargement of the East. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: Because we want an exit from nuclear energy!]] They're junctimizing today, saying, You can't go in unless you're released from nuclear energy! [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: We want an exit!]] Do you want to exclude France and Germany from the EU? – That is absurd what you are doing here, Mrs Langthaler! [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: There is a three-party application, and you have agreed to it!]] It's really absurd! I don't think you're so stupid, you're smart enough, you're doing this against better knowledge just to change political change. Let me say that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We are committed to parliamentary democracy, and therefore: They're supposed to have these rights. The voters will make their judgment.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00111_d7e5765	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm 5 minutes of voluntary time limit.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00111_d7e5795	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mr. Dummful, stay there a little bit before you go, I have something to say to you, especially to your address. Mr President, you have done a lot of work with your head of state Pröll and with what great environmental policy this makes. Ladies and gentlemen! I will now tell you what environmental policy Mr Pröll is doing. [[Abg. Boy: None at all!]] The entire Lower Austrian ÖVP, as far as it is available today, goes out to the speaker's desk and says: Great what this head of state does! I'll tell you what he really does. Mr Atomrechtsanwalt Dr. Autumn was ordered by the state government to make an intervention. At the meeting of 3rd parties. In March, when this was decided, our Council of State Schimanek made a very sensible request, namely the request to support the citizens' initiatives in Dukovany financially. Three times you can guess, ladies and gentlemen, what happened to this motion. – He was voted down! He was voted down, my colleague, but you don't say that. [[Listen!-Hear!-Call and other calls to the liberals.]] Dr. Hebst can drive around as he pleases: He will return from the Czech Republic, as will the Federal Chancellor, as well as other politicians, as well as national leaders and ministers. That is the reality, Mr President, and nothing else. He will return unproven things! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There, Mr Pröll can make an effort to do as he pleases, and take hypocritical action – it will not benefit him! It's a sign of your nervousness, my Ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party, you are now trying to pull the row around again. Only: It's too late. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: This is hypocritical! Just tell us that with your Schimanek! It's so holy!]] What has also been carried out on the national side in recent years, ladies and gentlemen, has been a toothless environmental policy. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: The voters will judge that!]] For if you really want to move something, then you have to injunctify, then as the head of state you have to go to the Federal Chancellor, to the Vice-Chancellor and demand that the enlargement of the European Union will finally be yunked – and not talk around for a long time! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: You do not want the Easter enlargement!]] There's no one to be used by the reason. We all know that some of the Heads of Government in the East are uneducated and simply do not respond to the arguments of Austria. If you have this knowledge, which prevents us from saying: Ladies and gentlemen of the governments in the Czech Republic, in Poland, in Slovakia, then there is no EU accession!Unknown term type: "%s".? And if it is so difficult to win an alliance partner for such a nuclear policy, I have to ask myself why the Federal Chancellor does not even say in the EU bodies: Then we will consider the ratification of the Amsterdam Treaty!Unknown term type: "%s".? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That, mine. Ladies and gentlemen, would be the only clear answer to a constant no, to a constant failure to listen. That is also what I mean by a responsible approach to politics. Everything else I've heard today about arguments – the one that's trying to chat, and that's going to the Smalltalk across the border – is an ugly policy. That won't take us any further. This does not mean that Austrian environmental policy is well served. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] As far as Dukovany is concerned, I would like to conclude by saying that every day new facts come to the public. In the immediate vicinity of Dukovanys, in a village named Námešt, just 20 kilometres away, a Czech military airport is now planned. Well, do you not believe that there is a danger that there will once be a false landing? Faith They do not have to prevent such a thing by all means – and be it by taking hold of one's own pocket and saying to the many citizens' initiatives that will come: Yes, dear people in Dukovany, you have five million schilling! Makes something out of it! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: Five million more! What do you want to do with 5 million?]] That would be a sensible investment with a good return, but not this miserable chatter about what you're trying to do if you didn't actually do anything.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00111_d7e5939	Mr Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry. Please, honourable Member. You have a remaining speaking time of 4 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00111_d7e5961	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, as one could say earlier, today's special meeting has nothing to do with the Lower Austrian election campaign at all. Some have tried to make this clear to us, such as Mr Schweitzer, for whom enlargement of the East had to take place. Of course, this has nothing to do with the Lower Austrian election campaign at all. Even the attempted but not successful NATO debate has nothing to do with it. It's just a coincidence. It is a coincidence that an appointment is due today, but it does not expire. Or is it perhaps about the chance that tomorrow in Lower Austria the first constituency will be locked up and the electorate will have the opportunity to vote? I am somewhat surprised by the optimism of various colleagues. Mr. Brigadier Moser! Three mandates? – Because of what performance? Because of the flight of the Lord Firlinger, your peak in Lower Austria? Because of the escape of Pepi Wagner and the politics of the LIF in Lower Austria? On account of the escape of the colleague who has once again secured the absolute majority of the ÖVP? Three mandates? – Do you believe in Christmas or Easter rabbits? Or how would you like it? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Dautzenberg is also gone!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Back to something more material. It was already interesting to hear the comments of the opposition parties, such as those of Mr Petrovic, who accused the chancellor of returning to real policy in nuclear policy. It was interesting then to hear Mr Schweitzer – he has already taken the flight – who has meant that the Federal Chancellor's policy has nothing to do with reality. Well, what now? – Real policy? Nothing to do with reality? – If the opposition parties do not know what the Chancellor's policy is, then the Chancellor's policy is certainly a good one. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] One thing bothered me, namely the comments made by Mr Moser, who meant that these issues around Lower Austria were too less for her. I am not too much less interested in these topics in Lower Austria, and I am pleased that I have the opportunity to use this special meeting to bring some statements into the right light; Mr Firlinger has also tried to do so with inadequate means. He has tried to represent that the head of state is not the only one. I'm sure you're right here. It's actually like this: Although our head of state is very common in the 'pageviews', not always in real policy. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, let me use the last seconds of my speaking time to remind you of where Lower Austrian nuclear policy comes from, who is doing something in Lower Austria. There have been massive activities against nuclear power plants in our area since 1995 in the SPÖ Landtagsclub, against the expansion of camps, but we have also taken precautions. We know that it is not possible to switch from today to tomorrow, so we are trying, with the help of disaster protection, to give our people security in the vicinity of the border. Ladies and gentlemen! We can not only – and there the Greens will cry again – demand the exit, we also have to offer alternatives. I believe that Temelin should, for example, be converted into a gas steam power plant in order to ensure that the Czech Republic is rescheduled. In conclusion: The successes of Austrian nuclear policy are remarkable. For the accession negotiations, we should demonstrate agreement – I am already at the conclusion, Mr President. [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign]] However, today's special meeting of the National Council has not served well with regard to our previous efforts to achieve a common Austrian nuclear policy. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00111_d7e6020	Mrs Dr. Moser has asked for an actual correction. Please, ladies and gentlemen. 2 minutes speaking time. Start with the facts you want to correct.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00111_d7e6045	Very close. My previous speaker, Mr Kummerer, claimed that I had said that the Lower Austrian policy was too less for me. I'm correcting: I have actually said that the form of discussion with Lower Austrian politics, as Mrs Bauer has done here, is too much less for me. This way of bringing in the Lower Austrian electoral environment – that's too much for me.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00111_d7e6075	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn. - Please. Mr deputies, you still have 5 minutes of speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00111_d7e6096	Mr President. Minister! High house! It is the good right of this government to praise its policy. This includes, of course, environmental policy. The fact that the opposition is coming up the gall is really no wonder. The price of this environmental policy, which really only focuses on Austria and does not take into account the influences from abroad at all, is an enormously high one. Our GDP suffers, our labour force situation suffers. But the EU – where we have a veto right, where we could implement our environmental policy – is somewhat concerned with Austrian government policy. It has made transitional commitments, just as we are now getting commitments from the Eastern countries. They are whistling about the concerns of Austria. This government does not represent our concerns! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Most of Austria's environmental impact comes from the eastern countries. We know that. Austria has the longest border to the East; the Immissions from the East are worrying. Now Mochovce and Dukovany are still coming; and the nuclear mill has just missed. We have written down Zwentendorf as a "stranded investment" in billions. At the same time, we sell the Styrian network to the French, which, with its nuclear power, distributes nuclear power through Austrian network. That's our environmental policy, that's our energy policy – pui devil! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The energy costs in Austria are the highest in Europe. Environmental costs in Austria are the highest in Europe. At the same time, however, we have the greatest danger potential for all EU countries due to our border with Slovakia, the Czech Republic and Slovenia. You know that. Don't beautify that! Do something to finally reduce these dangers! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But what are you doing? – Wanting us as the highest net payer – per capita of the population – They agree that this Easter enlargement is very important: that we send even more money there, that more Mochovces be built, that more Krškos be built. It's all supposed to happen. That is why we are now urged to include EU candidates as quickly as possible. This has neither economic policy nor security, nor any environmental background at all. You should cross-border against the inclusion of these countries and say: No, if not...! That's your job, but you don't! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Some of you say that would be a good thing: The Minister of Finance says that these countries should be taken up in a 10 or 15 years' time. Ex-Citizen Zilk says it would be early enough after 18 years. That's what you're saying. But to the outside, of course, you say that EU enlargement brings jobs, they bring economic growth, and they also bring the end of nuclear energy to our eastern neighbours – which you finance with your contributions. That's what it looks like. [[Abg. Arbitrator: "Behind mouth" is funny!]] Yeah, now you're dirty town. You just always have the big saying here. [[Abg. Arbitrator: No, you said "behind mouth"!]] They make visits, trips, Blabla and everything possible over there, instead of finally making you a policy in Brussels, so that Austria, as a location with the high environmental criteria we have, is also respected by the Eastern countries. But you are responsible for a high tax rate and for high taxes, that is already known to me. That is why I would also like to say to you: Just as you finally do with nuclear power, so do you with petrol. We have excessive fuel prices in Austria, the highest in Europe, with the highest tax and tax burden. That is why we are making the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I can only tell you: The government's commitment to East Enlargement obviously does not stop the nuclear waste problem either. Free to Qualtinger: I don't know where I'm going, but I used to be there for that. - I'm "gratulating" you!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00111_d7e6201	The text of the motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported and will be included in the negotiations. Mrs Gredler was the last speaker to speak. You have a speaking time of 6 minutes at your disposal. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00111_d7e6231	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to express my dismay at Mr Stummvo's opinion. To threaten and to say that one is so tolerant and gives the minorities in Parliament the opportunity to articulate – that which has not been said: and if one were not so tolerant, one would have to abolish these possibilities again – shows very well how the democratic political understanding of Mr. Stumblingly is obtained. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: That's not how I formulated it! Read the protocol!]] That's incredible, Mr. stupid: You threatened us! I do not accept being a minority in Parliament and being restricted in my rights. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter and Abg. Steibl: Go! Go!]] You can read this a hundred times in the minutes. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] Secondly, If you are already so proud of your performance, I would advise you to talk to the EIA Members in the European Parliament. Five votes have failed so that a decision would have been taken in the European Parliament to get out of nuclear power in the next millennium. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: You're simplifying!]] These five votes could have given the members of the EIA to the request, but they did not. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreider: No, it wasn't!]] That's what it's like. You or your colleagues in the European Parliament should be responsible. It is a pity that this path has not been taken! [[Abg. Dr. stupid: No, you didn't understand that!]] I would also like to correct the Chancellor – in his absence. He said there was between 5. Research programme and nuclear energy are not interconnected. [[The speaker shall keep a document up to date.]] I have here a broadcast of the European Parliament's Information Centre of 9. In March 1998, one complained of the fact that for the 5th Research programme funds – ECU 14 000 – 91 percent of the framework programme and 9 percent of the EURATOM framework programme. Therefore, there is a connection, and one should not pretend there was none. It would be nice, Mrs Federal Minister, if you could perhaps convince the Minister of Finance that he is putting in a veto in the budget for the next few years and says: We do not want to spend so much money on nuclear energy, we do not want to spend so much money on a technology that seems very uncertain to us, even if we have to take measures to increase the safety of nuclear power plants. – The Greens mentioned it: It only extends its lifetime. I know that this is a difficult path, but I would like us to take part in the preparation of the budget of the European Union. This is in our hands in the next half year, because the second and third readings fall during this period. The Minister of Finance can do that, believe me! If we consider that, between 1992 and 1997, fossil energy sources were promoted by 720 billion schilling, while only 18 billion were spent on renewable energy sources, I have to say that the ratio of 52 billion euros to 1.3 billion euros is simply wrong. But we could restore a balance if we were as active as the Spanish Foreign Minister, for example. The Spanish Foreign Minister – who complains about this – calls on Foreign Minister Schüssel daily to intervene for the olive trees and olive producers. On the other hand, Mr. Foreign Minister Schüssel apparently did on 24 March. ==References====External links== There is a little difference between the commitment of our Foreign Minister and that of the Spanish. One calls daily and "sects" his colleagues, and the other writes some letter every month. [[Abg. Arbitrators: The question is who has more success!]] Finally, I have little time to speak to the request of the Freedom Party. In doing so, I refer to your scenario of enlargement: Enhanced migration, additional pressure on the domestic labour market, production and investment outlays in various industries – has this not happened? Is it not true that we have a lot of fellow citizens from these countries who are already working in Austria? – Those who want a job have long since, gentlemen of the Freedom Party! I cannot imagine that there is a significant change. With regard to export and import restrictions: Only 10 percent of the products are limited in their free flow between Hungary and Austria. Don't start a scenario that doesn't exist at all! Only 10 percent are left, everything else can circulate freely. Gentlemen, please take back and don't be afraid of the people who live in the neighbouring regions! We will pay attention to this, but not by imposing bans, but by seeking cooperation.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00111_d7e6344	Nobody's reported word anymore. The debate is closed. I would ask you to take the places as we now have a number of votes to take. Firstly, we shall vote on the motions for resolutions tabled. Firstly, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Rosemarie Bauer, Mr Oberhaidinger and Mr Comrades on measures against nuclear installations close to the border. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. - That's the majority. The request was accepted. (E 106.) We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Schweitzer and comrades on EU enlargement by the example of nuclear policy. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kier and Mr Comrades on the creation of a European Atomic Liability Directive. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gabriela Moserund Comrades on urgent anti-atomic measures in Austria. Whoever is in favour of this request, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution by Mr Pollet-Kammerlander and Mr Comrades on the establishment of a nuclear-free zone in Europe. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Finally, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn and comrades with regard to excessive fuel prices in Austria. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. That concludes the vote on the motions for resolutions. Vote on request for a deadline
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00111_d7e6477	We shall now proceed to the vote on the request made by Mr Dr Kier, the Committee on Justice and Home Affairs to report on the motion for a resolution 705/A by Mr Mag. Barmüller and comrades concerning a federal law on liability for nuclear damage – Atomic Liability Act – a period of up to 14. ==References== Whoever is in favour of this request for deadlines, I would ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00111_d7e6507	I would also like to say that at today's sitting, self-employed applications 708/A to 710/A have been tabled. Questions 3835/J to 3877/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council, held on Wednesday, 25 May. March 1998, 9 a.m., will be convened in writing. I would remind you that, following this plenary session, a meeting of the main committee will be held in local V. The sitting is closed.
