ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e1986	Ladies and gentlemen! I can warmly welcome you and explain the 136. Meeting of the National Council for Opened. The official protocols of 134. Meeting of 8 and 9. ==References====External links== Meeting of 9. In July 1998, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. As prevented, MEPs are reported ing. Nut tree, Mag. Peter, Dr. Gabriela Moser and Dr. Haider. Communications related to the further 30-day absence of Member Peter Rosenstingl
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e2020	In addition, I should like to inform the House that Parliament has not appeared for another 30 days at the meetings of the National Council. ==References== In July 1998, a letter from lawyer Dr. Manfred Ainedter was filed in the Parliamentary Directorate, in which he informed him that instead of Dr. Georg Zanger he had taken over the legal representative of Mr Peter Rosenstingl, in which he tried to justify the absence of Mr Rosenstingl with the continued extradition of Mr Rosenstingl in Brazil. I have duplicated the above letter of the lawyer and had it distributed to all members of the National Council. According to § 2 para. 1 Z 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council shall be relegated to a Member of his mandate, inter alia, if, by 30 days without a valid reason recognised by the National Council, he has failed to comply with the request made by the President to him publicly and in the National Council after 30 days, to appear or justify his absence within 30 days and the Constitutional Court has decided accordingly. In this connection, I would remind you that the National Council was already on 16 March. In June 1998, he unanimously denied the validity of the reasons given by Mr Rosenstingl's legal representative. About the kind. 161 para. 1 lit. (c) the application provided for in the Federal Constitution must also be decided by the National Council. Such a decision would be in accordance with § 2 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure to be prepared by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. To this end, a meeting of the main committee will be held today. We have agreed that we will be convened to the main committee for the time at the likely interruption of the meeting of the National Council, at least after the end of this meeting of the National Council. The exact time is later announced. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e2063	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e2192	I would also like to say that the 12th report of the Inconsistency Committee is before the members of the National Council. Amendments to the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e2214	I would also like to point out that the honourable Member has the power to do so. Stadler, within the meaning of Article 50 of the Rules of Procedure, has raised written objections to the agenda of today's sitting in writing. The written objections are complementary to today's agenda with regard to the judicial documents. I assume that this also involves a debate. - According to § 50 of the Rules of Procedure, I limit the speaking time in this debate to 5 minutes and the number of speakers per club to a maximum of three. Mr Magnificent came to speak. Stadler. The speaking time is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e2241	Mr President. High house! The Austrian public or, as I believe, the entire European public has been shocked by a recent horrific case of child abuse in Holland yesterday. You can read about it in today's daily newspapers. Some have it on the front page, others treat it the way the coalition parties want to treat child injury, namely, far behind. Some find the story to be worth reporting on page 14. Ladies and gentlemen! Child injury is something that is particularly moving not only the people in Europe but also the people in Austria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is therefore, in fact, a disregard for this problem that is planned today to want to debate the problem of child abuse only by midnight, by spirit hour, in this House. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We invited a guest today. It is this Mrs Deriego from Tyrol that I would like to welcome. She herself has become a victim of child injury and has been abused herself. This lady has collected a total of around 180 000 signatures. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] All in all, 211 821 signatures have been gathered to underline that the subject of child abuse should be dealt with in a media prominent place. [[Members of the liberals gradually come to the government bank with the signatures packed in gift boxes and place them there.]] Mr President. You will receive these signatures from me today as part of a petition. 211 821 Austrians - of which 1,500 are students aged between 14 and 18 years - believe that the issue of child injury must be dealt with at last and as a matter of priority in Parliament and that one has been too long in this area. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! What I am now saying is aimed in particular at the two government parties. What attitude is there in parties that are only willing to negotiate an intensification of criminal provisions and an extension of limitation periods if, at the same time, the protection age for children is reduced, as the SPÖ requested? What attitude is there in such a party, Mr Kostelka? [[Abg. Leikam: Are there any bills in the packages?]] What is the attitude of a clubman who says in the context of a debate on the strengthening of criminal provisions on child pornography: Distrust all those in whom the drive is to punish!Unknown term type: "%s".? What attitude is there in a party today trying with a ridiculously urgent request, which is only half a page long, and successfully trying, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to postpone the treatment of child pornography, which we wanted to deal with today with a urgent request, to the midnight, Mr Khol? What attitude is there in such a party? - This is the attitude of surfers on the Internet, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr President. For us liberals - that is to say these 211 000 signatures that are presented to you today...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e2304	Mr Stadler! I will not be presented with petitions at a session. I have to hold the presidency and not accept petitions. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You will not miss out on 211,000 signatures today!]] I ask the officials of the House, after the speech of Mr Stadler, to remove it from the government bank. [[Violent contradiction with the liberals.]] Mr Stadler is speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e2336	This is the attitude which has for years prevented this country from having to tighten up the rules on child pornography, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr President, he does not accept this petition. I...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e2361	Mr Stadler! We start with the session as we did in the presidential. And I apologized for the criticism of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e2388	Mr President. In your place today I would be very self-critical with the signatures of these...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e2406	Deputies! I'll call you to order for the first time! - Mr. Dkfm. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: You are not a President, you are a...!]] Bauer! I don't give you a call for order, because it doesn't pay off. - Please continue, Deputy Mag. Stadler.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e2454	Mr President. They show today how you disregard the signatures of these citizens. They show today that, quite in association with your own group, you are not really concerned about child injury. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Grabner: Where's the shark? Where's the shark?]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] 211,000 signatures are not worth discussing about child injury in a prominent position, but only at midnight, when no more media representatives are in the house. [[Abg. Leikam: Is the shark also this view?]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ and the Freeman.]] That is why we demand that this issue be debated at the beginning of the first sitting of this House today.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e2544	At the end of this debate, we will be voting on the request which Mr Stadler has just made to supplement the agenda. The next speaker is Mr Kostelka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e2613	Mr Mag. Stadler! Ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. [[Abg. Dr. Karlsson: Where is the leader?]] [[Call the SPÖ:Where is the Rosenstingl?]] The request you have made and the action you have put here are only too transparent. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats, Democrats) and European Democrats, in particular, wanted to impose a weaker regulation during the limitation period in connection with the sexual abuse of children, which was the reason for the schine argument of legal certainty to decide a shorter limitation period in the Committee yesterday, is at the moment very quick to discuss this issue in the National Council plenary session. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: But is not at all true!]] [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Leikam: I would have liked the main actor to be there!]] Mr Stadler! You have a publicly known child abuser with the following notice: Leave this old man alone!, defended as already known that there are righteous offences. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Call the SPÖ:Pfui! Pui!]] [[Abg. Leikam: A liberal official!]] The double-beddedness of your morality becomes all too clear in connection with actionism. [[Call to the liberals:Do you know Mr. Mühl?]] They are not concerned with achieving a faster entry into force of this provision. With your consent, what is decided today will enter into force on 1 January. October and not an hour earlier, because the corresponding legal period is necessary for the implementation by the courts. They are just about the following: to ensure that the request for a procedure for the withdrawal of a mandate at the Constitutional Court of your Member, Mr Rosenstingl, is not discussed this afternoon, but at some point in the middle of the night. [[Abg. Leikam: Yes, that's it!]] That's a transparent argument. We will therefore not agree to the request.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e2743	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Khol. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e2769	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The People's Party firmly rejects any kind of child abuse and any kind of promotion of child abuse and deeply regrets all victims. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Boy: Then do something!]] I do not propose to any group in this House that it should not share this opinion. I do not know any Members in this House, in no group who would in any way solidify themselves with child abuse and who would not decide to reject these crimes against our smallest and the most vulnerable. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ and the Liberal Forum.]] We have reached the agreement that we are negotiating the Causa Rosenstingl today at this first meeting. This agreement has been cancelled by the liberals for tactical reasons. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The government parties were that, not us!]] We have put in a urgent question regarding the toll in Tyrol, which is an important question for us. [[Abg. May. Stadler: As usual, you have a bad memory!]] Today, however, we will take all those legal measures with determination and determination in such a way that they can be applied at the earliest possible time in order to combat child abuse. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Mr Stadler! How serious this matter is to you is the fact that your clubman has preferred to stay in the United States today and not to be here. [[Abg. May. Stadler: 211,000 signatures testify!]] [[Abg. Leikam: Sourry! Pigry!]] [[Further calls at SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I believe that the public has a right to know that these matters and Parliament are only a game and not a serious matter for you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e2881	I give Mr Leikam an order for the expression'saury'. I call Mrs Dr Schmidt. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e2905	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is completely crazy that we have to assure each other here that we want to do everything we can to combat child abuse. I agree with Mr Khol's view that this is probably beyond dispute. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum, SPÖ and ÖVP, as well as on Green MEPs.]] I therefore do not intend to use a word on the Rules of Procedure for such a debate either, because I consider this not only to be abused but also to be pharysical. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: What's wrong with you?]] [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum, SPÖ and ÖVP, as well as on Green MEPs.]] I am really horrified that there is no subject - and be it as serious and as profound as this - in which the liberals are not afraid to instrumentalise it for their purposes. [[Abg. May. Stadler: I am horrified about child abuse, not about what you do best!]] [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum, SPÖ and ÖVP, as well as on Green MEPs.]] There can be no one who takes this seriously. There can't be anyone who believes... [[Abg. May. Stadler: Where were you in the Justice Committee yesterday, Mrs Schmidt?]] We will not, of course, agree to this request.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e2987	The next speaker was Mr Krüger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e3016	High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is simply wrong to say here that it is out of dispute that all the political groups in this House are taking all possible measures against child injury. I wonder what is causing you to act in such a way that you simply do not comply with the wishes of the people to discuss the issue of child abuse in a comprehensive way and put this debate at the end of the negotiations. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mrs Schmidt! Since this was the subject of hypocrisy, I must make it clear to the public that you, as a judge of the Liberal Forum, have never attended a meeting of the Committee on Justice - and here you are shedding crocodile tears! [[Abg. May. Barmüller: Krüger, not you!]] [[further calls to the SPÖ]] This is a hypocrisy and a dual morality of the special class! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This topic is unpleasant to you. [[Abg. Dr. Karlsson: Where is the leader?]] [[Further calls.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Anyone who was in the Committee on Justice yesterday could see the bad conscience in the eyes of the representatives of the coalition parties. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: Krüger, you voted against it yourself when it came to providing protection mechanisms for families!]] For you are responsible for not being threatened with life-long punishment by child abusers who today paint minors and unmistakable children to death! You're responsible! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oberhaidinger.]] Mr Jarolim, the new SPÖ Judge, said yesterday that in case of a relapse rate between 60 and 80 per cent, it is quite discussive to demand a lifelong management supervision of children's children. But a vote on this has not been approved. - That's how it looks in this high house! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They scatter sand into the eyes of the population. If you say that you stand for a doubling of the threat of punishment, that is not correct because you just want to eliminate an existing maladministration, but do not want to aggravate all other threats to offences against the morality of children. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Leikam: Say something about the Rosenstingl!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This topic is so important... - Mrs. Mertel! [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Where's Mr. Haider?]] You need it. 210 000 signatures have been collected for a massive occurrence against child injury, and then the Klubobmann of the ÖVP, Dr. Khol, turns himself to the speaker’s desk and says that it would be much more important to discuss the toll, rather than questions of the aggravation of the criminal dimension in child injury. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mrs. Colleague! Are you not warned enough that in Austria everything is to be done to increase the penalties? [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: We're here, we take it seriously! Only Mr Haider does not take it seriously!]] Ladies and gentlemen! According to your bill, the risk of relapse should not be borne by the offender, but by society and the unmistakable children. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Where is Mr. Haider on this important subject?]] Ladies and gentlemen! The remaining risk, whether a person who has been sentenced several times, can be converted in prison with expectation and then no more child injury or becomes a perpetrator. This residual risk remains to be borne by the children in Austria. I said yesterday in the Committee on Justice - I am standing on this - that it may seem archaic in times like this to demand this - that children's shame should be locked away. We confess that these are locked up.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e3196	Mrs Petrovic. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the Same time of speech.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e3214	Mr President. High house! Mr Krüger! No, this issue is not unpleasant to this House. I am very glad that a new regulation, which has, in principle, been agreed for a long time, comes about in the interests of better protection for the victims. Mr Krüger! What is unpleasant is your appearance, is this kind of speech, this distortion of facts. You seem to know very little about this matter. There are preventive measures. There is, in addition to the system of penalties in the case of dangerous offenders, an instrument of preventive measures in the case of mentally outlawed lawbreakers. You deliberately want to stage a spectacle here. [[Congratulations with the Greens, SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The meaning of this spectacle is twofold. On the one hand, there is a single party in this House, which has also been burdened with the subject of pornography itself. [[Abg. Leikam: That's it!]] There were two prominent Lower Austrian representatives of the Freedom Party from the district of Ternitz, who performed as a porn actor. [[Ah-noise at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Mühl! Mühl! Your mind!]] It was a certain Mr. Rumpold who sexually attacked an above Austrian lawyer and was first sentenced to it. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] And it was a executive clubman Stadler who, on the one hand, demanded a cartel of the only suspects, on the other hand, on the other hand, every time, even when suspicions have occurred against prominent people from the Catholic Church, it has been kept in mind when an investigation was required. So much inconsistency in one place is probably unique! [[Congratulations on the Greens, SPÖ and ÖVP as well as on representatives of the Liberal Forum.]] The second reason why you are holding a debate in this House today - and this matter will come to a decision today - is that you want to distract from the Causa Rosenstingl. They try this with packages of signatures and the like. The signatures will be accepted, and the matter will be done today. They abuse these performances to distract from the Causa Rosenstingl! [[Abg. May. Stadler: But go! Go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go!]] You know, I think that's really... [[Abg. May. Stadler: Nobody's interested in it! Except for you, he's not interested anymore!]] Above all, if your party is harming taxpayers, if you have failed in your own area, where your political responsibility would have been in the most immediate sense, I would like to suggest to you, in my opinion, that you misuse the child abuse debate in order to distract you from your abuse of public funds and from your abuse of the concept of political control!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e3326	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Ofner. Same time of speech.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e3344	Mr President. High house! The call of members of this House: "Where is the Haider?" confirmed to me in the assumption that many of you believe: Without Haider there is nothing more going on in this Republic and hence not in this Parliament! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: The Ofner was more funny!]] [[Further calls at SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] But it is really not understandable: One case of professional child injury is hunting the other in our days. Yesterday, a professional child shy in Upper Austria has been sentenced to a maximum of five years currently in force. [[Abg. May. Stadler: After that he gets the Burgtheater!]] At the same time, an enormous and cruel case of child injury has been brought to light in Holland, where infants and infants have been tortured, babies have been raped, and some of the participants who may have been assumed to have brought the matter to the authorities have been murdered. This seems to me, in a sense, to be a geographical continuation of the scandal of children in Belgium, which has dealt with us for years. Against this background, put the discussion on this important topic not only behind the problem of Rosenstingl, but also behind the question of tooth replacement. I really wonder what the people consider to be important: that at a time of day corresponding to the importance of the occasion, or that it is about the crowns of teeth? [[Abg. Koppler: No, that's more! There are more novels!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] Most of us will eventually have dental crowns. I cannot imagine that this is deliberately happening, but it seems that there is a lack of any sense of fingertips about the meaning of one and the other subject. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The population in Austria is deeply concerned about the accumulation of child injury in the country and beyond its borders. It is recognized that there is a link between the technical possibilities - especially the possibilities for communication - and the rise in the number of professional child injuries. [[Abg. Oillinger: The lawyer of...!]] In the past, one did not have the opportunity to make such a business out of what is happening today. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] And you are no more important to the discussion about this than the debate on the crowns of teeth! They simply do not understand that the citizen has a right to have such an important issue here in this House - from the main speaker's desk, as Ermacora once said - addressed at a worthy hour and not only at 2 o'clock in the morning, Mr Oillinger. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Let me tell you something about the issue of Rosenstingl [[Abg. Oils: Yes, please!]] These only interest more than a few newspapers and politicians, otherwise attract They're no longer a man behind the oven! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] A few days ago, I witnessed an exchange of words - a very friendly exchange of words - between a member of this House and a diplomat accredited in Vienna. The member of the House has explained to the diplomat that today, among other things, it will be about Rosenstingl, and the diplomat accredited in Vienna has asked: Who's Mr. Rosenstingl? - He wasn't aware of what it was all about. [[Cheerfulness to individual Members.]] They all believe - or some of you like it - that the world is turning around Rostingl. But: Only the readers of some newspapers believe that, and wishful thinking is there too - but the population is no longer important! This is important to one or another of you! You are exploring that there are more important issues for the people, for their well-being, for whose interests, but you do not draw from them the consequence of the composition of the agenda.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e3486	No one is reported in the word anymore. That concludes the debate. We shall vote on the objections. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who want to follow Mr Stadler's request that the five judicial proposals which he has mentioned be included as an item on the agenda of the current meeting to be approved by the Committee on Justice and Citizens' Rights. - That's the minority. There is no change on the agenda. [[Abg. May. Stadler: resistance to majority!]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e3522	Mr President, I should like to say that I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President of the Commission, for his excellent report. Kukacka and comrades to the Lord Federal Minister for Economic Affairs concerning Brennermaut. A urgent request shall be made after completion of the agenda, at the latest at 3 p.m., but at the earliest three hours after entry into the agenda. Since we do not have an agenda at the present partsession and the meeting is expected to be suspended after the current hour, I would like to propose the call for urgent debate at 12.35 a.m. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Business treatment!]] - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e3550	Mr President. It was not only in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but also in practice so far, that the three-hour period for the three-hour period began to run only after the current hour. That is why I would ask you to set the three-hour deadline in such a way that it begins when the current hour has been declared to be over.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e3588	Mr Kostelka has spoken.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e3606	Mr President. If there had been a need for proof that the FPÖ was exclusively about moving the decision on Rosenstingl into the night, then Mr Stadler now had him. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP as well as the Liberal Forum.]] The three-hour deadline is solely for the preparation of the member of the government for the urgent request he has made. It is new to me that the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is concerned about the interests of the members of the Government.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e3650	For business treatment, Mr. Dr. Khol has reported.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e3668	Since this is a general question, Mr President, I would like to refer to what we discussed at the President-in-Office's sitting: We have announced that we intend to make a urgent request. It has been summarized by you that she will be brought in at 9 a.m. and will be answered by the Minister three hours later. Since there's no agenda, I'll join your enunciations.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e3699	Mrs Schmidt has spoken.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e3717	Mr President. Despite the fact that it is a matter of presidency to set the deadline for the urgent question, I would like to point out, in agreement with Mr Khol, that it seems to me important for the Members present and perhaps also for the guests present, that this question was discussed in connection with the term of office in the President in the presence of Mr Stadler and that he did not relate to what he said as a speech on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e3744	Mr Stadler! We're always just doing a round of business treatment, but if you want to make a request, I'll give you the floor. [[Abg. May. Stadler: I just had to make a request!]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e3773	Mr President. Under reference to § 93 para. I would ask you, since the question to be clarified today is of fundamental importance, because in the future we will also be submitting urgent requests before the start of the current hour, in order to have them called up earlier accordingly, to have this fundamental question clarified either here in the framework of a standing presidential or in the presidential conference.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e3805	Ladies and gentlemen! This is a purely legal question, and I would like to say the following: The Rules of Procedure would like urgent questions to be discussed as early as possible - therefore not only after completion of the agenda, but not at 3 p.m. at the latest. However, we have agreed in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure that the member of the government in question must have a minimum time limit for preparation, and we have set this time limit at three hours. - We need to deal with these two aspects. There are normally urgent questions at meetings which are equipped with an agenda and it is possible, during the period between the opening of the meeting and the entry into the agenda, to make urgent requests. The possibility of making a urgent request ends with the entry into the agenda. Since we do not have an agenda at the present sitting, the possibility of a urgent question ends with the end of this first sitting. However, the urgent request is already in place, and there are therefore really good reasons to say: Treatment at the earliest possible time, but just after the end of the minimum period of three hours. In addition, another interpretation would have the effect of negotiating the subject of criminal law reform, the urgency of which had just been stressed, one or two hours later. - But that's a material question, and that's not a decision-making point for me. It is important to me that we have defined the following in the presidential session: "After resumption of the 136. The meeting will continue to deal with a urgent question (at least brought in). (The President moved that the agenda for the sitting was not scheduled for the first part of the sitting, and therefore suggested that the start of the three-hour period be set in accordance with § 93 para. 1 GOG not to accept the "entering into the agenda", but to accept the "submission of the urgent request" unless an agenda is still available as a result of objections according to § 50 GOG. )"- We voted on that. There has been no agenda. I would like to suggest the following: I intend to resume the interrupted sitting, as I said, at 12.35 p.m. However, I do not now enact the beginning of the negotiations of the urgent question for this time, although that would be in accordance with this protocol, because we have already held a presidential meeting after the end of the sitting today. We can then think about it again, and if we come to an opinion different from this presidential protocol, we will proceed accordingly. That is to say, it is now entering the current hour and the intention is to resume the meeting at 12.35 p.m. The enunciation about the time of treatment of the urgent request I reserve. This gives an opportunity to talk about it in the Presidential. Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e3848	We're coming to the current hour. The subject is: "Europefit through flexibilisation - work for more people" Mrs. Schmidt is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e3875	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The Liberals have requested the present hour on the subject of 'Europe's fit through flexibilisation - work for more people', because we believe that the topicality of this issue is given for a number of reasons: on the one hand, due to the internal Austrian situation, because of the lack of progress towards flexibilisation, towards reforming various working time and comparable laws, on the other hand, but above all because Austria currently holds the Presidency in the EU Council. We believe that this presidency has a degree of opportunity on the one hand, but also a risk on the other, so that a balance should be made here in this House. I do not know who of you has seen the report in CNN on the adoption of the Presidency by Austria. It was a report that rewritten the old cliché of Austria in a form, as we and, as I hope, some of you cannot be pleasant. It is not a question of weighting the importance of our traditional cultural events, but I think it is unfortunate that only one side of Austria is shown and one pretends to be like, at some point, lovable, should be stuck somewhere. This is a formal side if you want to, but there is a risk that this remaining state, this kind of coverage, this kind of relief will continue to be our business card if it is done as the Austrian Coalition Government has already done at the first two informal ministerial meetings. You just need to look at the programme design. Mrs Minister, I must also say this about the programme design of the Social and Women Ministers. But even worse is the programme design of the Environment Ministers. I have calculated the pure working time: Of the two and a half days of the meeting now taking place in Graz, five and a half hours are working time. Now I am far from evaluating other things such as public relations as work, but if you look at how much time is spent on discussing issues, and how much time the Minister for the Environment spends to stage himself and to stage the "work" - under quotation marks - of this Federal Government, you recognize a distortion that is unbearable and which contributes to an image of Austria, which has not evolved from the constipation, from the distraction. That means: Distractive maneuvers, cover, beautiful words, create beautiful frames. That is what will remain, and I therefore believe that if we complain about how this opportunity could be used differently, we should now and not in retrospect. In this way, such a working style becomes more evident than it has been so far, because so far only we have known about it, but now everyone will know it, by transporting the media, whether it is print media or electronic media. However, I think that this would also be an opportunity for us to take an external and internal position for our image, because the reputation we are now acquiring also determines our importance and therefore our weight in the European Union, and inwardly, because we have to set the right course. We can only acquire reputation if we have clear positions, but not only in the form of confessions, Mrs Minister, because the confessions are all up here. We have only recently experienced what it is like to be content with confessions, such as Article 7 - you know what I am talking about - where in this coalition government there was nothing but a loud commitment to equal treatment. Please, who doesn't confess to equal treatment? The resistance to defining it as a task shows that one wants to resort to lip confession for the future. Therefore, I do not think that those confessions that you have spoken about are worth much more than the paper on which they stand, for nothing changes in the matter itself. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] It is therefore necessary to prove the ability to act. But if the ability to act is that Mr Bartenstein now does not say 'child care check', but 'child care allowance', and he thinks that this would be women in particular with regard to a contribution to labour market policy, then it looks bad, because that is nothing but that he wants to pay women to stay at home and thus relieve the strained labour market. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum and SPÖ.]] These are obviously the differences that the ÖVP imagines. The ÖVP Chamber Party does not intend to loosen or even let go of the reins to create jobs, but rather, in its view, attracts the reins, for the chamber state, dominated by the ÖVP, should remain, so it prefers to see the others stay outside, and in that case the women. It is also because it is reality - I do not really have to repeat these figures once again, because they are known - that women's unemployment is 12 per cent higher across the EU than men's and that the employment rate is 20 per cent lower. Now I say something about the employment rate. I know that it has risen now, but you also need to know how it has risen and why it has risen. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on representatives of the SPÖ.]] And what bothers me so much about statistics in this context, but also in the context of our unemployment, is that we close our eyes to our pension system, before what practice we have as regards sliding into the early retirement. We live today - you can read all of this - around four years longer, we work at eight years less, and we get our pension at nine years longer. This is the situation that statistics distract us from when it means that we are in Europe as a whole very well. I know, then, that when I talk about working time flexibility, all these are long-term projects, but there are concrete things to do now, namely to create incentives for business start-ups, to encourage jobs to be created there too - and I am now saying that with an additional qualification for women, for example, to create jobs. This is only about tax incentives, and it should therefore be part of a tax reform. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] This can only be done by forcing the strengthening of equity. It is a question of taxing non-absorbed profits, it is a matter of taxation as a whole, because of the fact that debt capital is no better than equity. That's an old hat, I know, but that's not a long-term project, but it's immediately feasible. That is to say, it would be possible to implement that tax reform that has been mentioned for so long. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] First concrete point: Tax reform. It is quite clear to me that this tax reform can only work if the expenditure side of the State is reduced. This too is an old hat, a ambiguity, only: There is nothing to be done if concrete action is not taken. But that also means red tape. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Then again I turn to the ÖVP: Their industrial innovation has never earned the title of reform. We need a radical reform of the industrial system in order to make it possible for us to enter our own professional life directly. But I come to the conclusion: Mrs. Minister! The reduction in working time, as Mr President has said, among other things - you have considered the 35-hour week in your "press hour" quite different - must, in my opinion, take place differently. It must take place in a course of life. In other words, it must be possible to set up time savings accounts, time savings accounts for karences, for educational exemptions, for care exemptions. [[Abg. That's what we decided!]] - But not generally. We need a completely different flexibility and possibility... - insufficient as you know. [[Abg. Conspicuous: You have decided!]] To this end - and this is my last comment - we have to say something: A discussion that will take a long time, but which you have so far refused in the matter itself, is necessary in order to make the reduction of working time also viable. We have nothing of it, if only it is on paper, it must be viable. And we need basic security for viability. This basic guarantee - that is my firm conviction - is one of the most important choices, not only in order to ensure social cohesion of a society, but also in order to allow for a different distribution of work, because the objective must be: [[Accompaniment at the Liberal Forum]] Work for more people! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e3966	The Minister for the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has made a statement on the subject. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e3985	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me, from my point of view, to comment on the subject which the Liberal Forum has made the subject of this current hour and to include some of the positions to which I would like to focus on the field of working time. The honourable Member has raised a lot of issues in detail, each of which would require much more time in itself to address them in depth. I think that it would be unsatisfying to refer only to one point or another, starting with the tax system, to position. I therefore ask you to understand that I would like to try - in order to be more concrete - to focus on a subject of flexibility. Europe is facing major challenges to the third millennium. In the economy and in the labour market, developments are underway that call for new patterns of thought and modern strategies. Internationalisation of production methods and innovative technological developments do not stop even in the case of domestic industry, the domestic economy and the Austrian labour market. The Austrian economy and the domestic labour market must face the new framework conditions. Old thought patterns are critical to question, to rethink old-fashioned traditions. 17 million unemployed in Europe and more than 200 000 in Austria are not dormant. It is therefore our central political credo in all policy areas to maintain employment and create new jobs. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! In this effort, we must also be open to new models of work organisation and working time. I believe that many of those who are here in the room would certainly be the wrong way to throw basic social standards overboard at the same time. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Feurstein.]] It is inconceivable that new models of working time are important for the competitiveness of the Austrian economy in international competition, taking into account both the needs of individual businesses and the interests of employees. In this sense, I would like to say clearly and clearly: Flexibility is only acceptable if it is not a one-way road. New approaches must benefit both employers and employees. Austria has met the new requirements offensively with the Working Time Act 1997, highly valued Member! In this law we have brought together modernity and social protection in a very good form, as I believe. Currently, for example, long-term calculation of normal working time can be allowed by collective agreement. This would also make possible annual working time models and even models that go beyond a season. Experience has shown that, for example, in the iron and metal processing industry, but also in many other sectors of the economy, a substantial flexibility of working time has taken place. It is now up to the firms to develop tailored working time models for their needs, taking into account the needs of the workers. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For this reason, it has been established that the calculation models must be approved by collective agreements, since this is the best way to regulate the circumstances of the sector in question. In addition, the law sets out the principle that working time models can be all the more flexible, the longer associated leisure spaces for workers. Finally, the basic rule was made that working time should be agreed and derogations can only be made in special cases - and even then only with a corresponding period of notice. This ensures that workers can reconcile their family and social interests with their professional activity and, I would like to say from practice, better agree. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Feurstein.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! Not only working time, but also working life will be made more flexible in the future. Rehabilitation and further training are not only important for the career development, but also create jobs for the unemployed. An important contribution to this was made by the Labour and Social Rights Amendment Act 1997. This excellent law has been passed in this House and contains regulations on the educational leave, the exemption against the loss of pay, the solidarity premium model and new ways of reducing normal working time. In addition to employment policy, these models for the redistribution of work also pursue social policy objectives. I would like, ladies and gentlemen, that these options, these offers are used even more offensively and even more, and I would also ask you to support them in this regard. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The rules open up options. And it is important to point out that these possibilities of flexible design of working time should be used on a voluntary basis and, as I believe, only the acceptance of these models will have to be given. Workers will be able to reduce their working hours, and the free working volume will then be available to people seeking work. However, flexibilization cannot in any way mean that workers' protection standards are softened or possibly even abolished. All such advances - and this has already been stressed several times in this House - we must face up together. The protection of workers from excessive use of labour and from health damage must always be a priority. These legitimate interests also include weekend and, in particular, the rest of the sun and holiday. The last amendment to the Labour Peace Act made it possible for collective agreements to permit exceptions from weekend and holiday rest, but such exceptions are only allowed if this is absolutely necessary to prevent economic damage, a disadvantage, as well as to ensure employment. Dear ladies and gentlemen! We were concerned about how the actors will deal with this new legislation. On the basis of my experience, I can say that the social partners have been very responsible in dealing with this regulatory instrument and have only allowed exceptions in a few cases. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Feurstein.]] The principle of working time rest on Sundays and holidays remains intact as an essential social policy achievement. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to say again in this place that Sunday is not a normal working day. He serves to rest, he serves to co-exist with the family, he serves to deepen friendships and thus social cohesion. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! Let me briefly address the question of the redistribution of work due to the reduction of working time. Although the assessments differ according to the possible effects, I support the initiatives in which new models - whether in the metal industry or in general as in Italy or in France - can be implemented. It should not be overlooked, ladies and gentlemen - we should not put our light under the banner - that in Austria we have had the same arrangement as France, under the title 35-hour week, since January of this year. I think that's far too little known. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If, in a company or in an industry, working time is reduced to job security and job creation, there is a grant of the labour market service. We now have to do everything we can to make use of the legal possibilities for ensuring employment and increasing employment in practice. Arrangement from above, very valued ladies and gentlemen, brings little. The participation and acceptance of local actors, the social partners are essential. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Feurstein.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! In the context of our Presidency in the European Union, we will closely monitor international experience and take advantage of these experiences. Again: Flexibility must not be one-sided. Flexibility and innovation are a new challenge, but also a challenge for entrepreneurship to develop new products, to open up new markets and thus to give the Austrian economic location a future. Dear ladies and gentlemen! In this sense, I would like to thank the fact that we have created many legal bases so that we can take this flexibility into account in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e4148	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister. We are going into the debate. The speaking times are 5 minutes each. Mr Dr Kier came to speak. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e4172	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The most important thing, I believe, is that we agree on the objective, Mrs Federal Minister. The subtitles of our current hour are "work for more people". We must not be confined to the instruments in the discussion. They have rightly said that the matter must not be ordered from above, but it must arise and be possible in the companies. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] That's right! We do not want it to be decreed from above, in which we agree. However, we want the spaces of order coming from above to make more possible, and that means flexibilization. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! You then meant: We will defend ourselves against the fact that standards are thrown overboard and social security is softened. - I reject this statement because it is assumed that someone who wants reforms, who naturally wants to change, then wants to avoid standards and throw them overboard. To put something else in place of the former means to say goodbye to any popular habit. The question is: Is the other more suitable for achieving the goal, more adequate for the individual and even more appropriate to the overall concern? - There is a need to discuss this and not to consider whether the previous watchman was taken 100, 50, 30 or 20 years ago. If what we really need is not something else, perhaps it must be discussed. I understand the position of the negotiation that we are holding on to what has been acquired for so long, as long as we have not yet negotiated the new - I understand that. But this is also a matter of the pace, because the problems we are discussing today are not only on the table since today, Mrs Federal Minister! You will, I fear, be lying on your table in the next few years. You meant you couldn't go into everything. That's right! But we will keep this item on the agenda. You will be given the opportunity to deal with this again - only then perhaps in a different context. The question of how to enable more people to work is one of the key issues of both social policy and economic policy as well as social policy. This is a question of social cohesion, and it is also the question of safeguarding the survival of society as a whole. They can only develop social systems in a society that is overall capable and ready to represent them. They must not be too restrictive and too flexible either, as a result of which people begin to refuse, because that would be the worst thing that can happen to us. Although you are not directly responsible for this, there is, of course, still a crucial central question: How to create a reorganisation, a flexibilisation and a more modern design of the public service? - This is also a working world, but unfortunately a working world that usually runs according to antique rules. Pragmatisation is still being maintained to a disproportionate extent there, where a redefinition of the tasks has so far been neglected, as well as a reorganisation of the form of carrying out the public tasks. Public tasks can also be delegated; they need not only to be done directly and alone by public authorities. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Novotny speaks to Mrs. Federal Minister Hostasch.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! On the issue of social security. Your colleague, Nowotny, is currently dealing with you and is distracting you. Mr Novotny! I would like to ask you to speak only to the next speaker with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, because I am less disturbed, because that will be Mr Vergestnich, where you may already know what he wants to say. Mrs. Federal Minister! You welcome flexibilization, which is why you also welcome part-time work, but you do not at the same time get into the discussion fundamentally. It is important to us how to safeguard the social demands of people working part-time. Perhaps the wages obtained in part - time work are not sufficient to live a life you would like. How do we create a component in the social system that makes part-time work much easier than today by not relying exclusively on part-time work? - That's one of the fundamental claims we raised about basic security. I urge this discussion. We must have this discussion, otherwise there will only be a reduction in working time, a reduction of a hundred percent, namely unemployment. This is the dead end if we do not become more flexible and do not at the same time convert the social systems. And that's all right. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e4256	The next speaker is Mr Fritz Vergebnitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e4274	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Deputies Kier! Maybe you'll hear something new, I'll at least try. I would also like to address a few arguments. Mrs Schmidt, if I have understood them correctly, has advocated the tax reform and has established a link to employment. I'm sure that's right. But I would like to refer them - perhaps this is now new - to the experience that has been gained in Belgium with the reduction of the tax in wage-intensive industries. Unfortunately, these are negative. Employment has not increased at all. I therefore believe that it is more important than ever to remain in discussions on this issue to see the effect. If you have rightly criticized the proposal made by Federal Minister Bartenstein in connection with the childcare check, then I must say that this question also arises in the area of basic security. Do we then have the effect of saying that women get the basic assurance anyway, why do they really want to be in employment? - I therefore believe that it is more important than ever to deal with the questions of work for more people, which work and under what circumstances it is actually made to deal more intensively. That's the decisive thing. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You have referred to the flexibility in your explanatory statement for this current hour. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In this context, I would like to draw your attention to a development that has been praised: greater flexibility. I would like to make a very specific point here, namely trade. There were 92 000 part-time workers in 1996 and 18 000 more part-time workers in 1997. There were 29 000 minor employees in 1996 and 6 000 more minor employees in 1997. There were 392,000 full-time workers in 1996 and 18 000 less full-time workers in 1997. So you see clearly that flexibilization is taking place, which is not in keeping with the wishes of those concerned, because it is a trend that part-time work becomes normal work - with less income, which is usually impossible to deal with as a single person. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If we are talking about flexibilization, ladies and gentlemen, we should be aware of the fact that, in fact, in Austria, we have all the possibilities under the law. I quote very consciously once again: Extension of working hours, part-time work, minor employment, women's night work, flexibilization in general - subject to collective agreement -, bandwidth models, annual working time models, sliding pensions, solidarity pensions, solidary premium models, educational care. The entire bouquet part-time work - flexibilization is listed here. However, I think it is undisputed - even if you say that you already knew what I am going to say - that the reduction of working time in this context is an element. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Those who believe that they can deal with the European employment situation by leaving the discussion on the reduction of working time to the left are certainly on the wrong path. There are enough models at European level, but also at Austrian level, that a combination of the reduction of working time with other forms leads to more employment and to desirable employment. I therefore believe that we should not vote in songs that are kept there or there again and again, that is an old model, a reduction in working time is a historical model, and more work has been announced. I'd like to put this to you: More work for those looking for work is only possible if we do not lose sight of the reduction of working time as a goal! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A joint study by the social partners has justifiably also mentioned: Shortening of working time as a means of distributing the existing volume to more people will continue to be part of the repertoire of working time policy. You can assume that we, the Social Democrats, but also, in particular, the trade unions will not go away from this issue, even if we are always considered to be eternal, because I believe that in reality this is the only future model when it comes to more employment.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e4350	The next speaker was Mr Feurstein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e4369	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Work for everyone, flexibility - these are actually current topics. I am therefore very grateful that this has been done today on the subject of the current hour, because it offers the opportunity to point out again the importance of employment policy in the EU and in Austria, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Austria has not made this issue one of the central issues in the next six months at the beginning of its presidency. We want and will deal with this issue in Europe and help to ensure that the things that have been repeatedly propagated are also implemented, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There are four pillars of employment policy on which we are building our thinking. The first pillar is the improvement of employability, including flexibility. I am very glad that the Federal Minister has shown here some of the things that are going on, which open up new aspects in relation to the situation in Austria today. But the second point is equally important for us, the second pillar of EU employment policy, namely the development of a better entrepreneurship, ladies and gentlemen. It is very important that we offer young people more and more the opportunity to become self-employed, to start businesses. This requires a number of measures. I also call the wage tax reform and the income tax reform, which are now in preparation. I am very glad that the Minister for Finance has made clear the following: Yes, we must focus on employment policy as a whole, ladies and gentlemen, in order to create more jobs. - Yeah, that's also a point. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: A positive call: To change the rules on the negligent Krida!]] The question of income tax reform is important to me, so as to facilitate, facilitate and improve the transfer of businesses. Another important point, ladies and gentlemen, is the strengthening of measures to improve equal opportunities for women and the disabled in the labour market. If some speakers have come to this pult before me and have put the model of Minister Bartenstein, namely a child care check for mothers with children up to their third year of life, I must oppose it very firmly, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If we want equal opportunities for mothers, we need them in the first three years of child rearing, and we will only realize this equal opportunities if this child care check is introduced - as Minister Bartenstein has suggested, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I also appeal in particular to the SPÖ, to the SPÖ's family spokesperson, who meant that they do not need it. We from the ÖVP agree and will fully support Minister Bartenstein in this regard, ladies and gentlemen. We expect this to be implemented as soon as possible. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Fourth point of the EU Employment Policy Guidelines: improve the adaptability of entrepreneurs and workers. What does that mean? - That's primarily education. This means focusing on the new technologies of young people, but also on older workers, i.e. continuous training. That is why we have introduced the educational career. We shall take action to ensure that there will be more flexibility, as the Minister has pointed out. Last point: We cannot, however, rely on the EU. We must act in the same way in Austria, and we must also take the necessary measures. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In my opinion, it is positive - and I would like to conclude - that the recent reports of the labour market service confirm that 5 500 open apprenticeships are to be expected in the next few months. Ladies and gentlemen! That's by 22 percent more than last summer. The measures are based on government initiatives. We have often had to fight with the SPÖ in order to enforce it, I would also like to say that. These measures have been effective and I am convinced that the apprenticeship package that we have recently decided will continue to be successful. My final sentence, Mr President: Let's talk more about the positive, let's tell people what they expect, let's not talk about the negative, and let's not always paint black! Black painting inhibits employment policy!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e4446	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Chief. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e4465	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. High house! Today's debate seems particularly important to me with regard to the last appearance of Mr Schüssel's Federal Minister in Brussels, because the words that have also fallen there from the Commission and the European Parliament, namely that the question of employment is at all the essential question of the future of Europe in all areas, I believe, to support fully. I would like to contrast with the contributions made by Mr Feurstein and Mr Vergestnitsch to our liberal theses. Our first liberal credo is the relief of the factor work. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] All enterprises in the direction of 35 hours of the week, all reflections on flexibility, all considerations in this area will only be successful and will be able to support the net accounts employed, even in practice, through more employment, if the most important household task of the Federal Government has been done before, namely to relieve the labour factor significantly. Because what else will happen? - If the 35-hour week enters into force without the relief of the factor labour, the farms will do what is better in the long term, namely rationalization. The 35-hour week will therefore not give rise to an employment effect, but a new wayration effect in a short time. The labour factor is also too high in the new services - Europe-wide - in Austria. The initiatives for the needy tourism industry to finally reach compatible tax rates in this area with its European co-operators are simply "audible" within the framework of the Federal Government. If you look at the tax rates in Italy, in Switzerland or in other tourism competitors in relation to the services in Austrian tourism, you can see that they are 30 to 50 percent higher with us. This factor is not to bet by kindness, by positive mood, by beautiful weather, but only by a proper tax reform. Mrs Schmidt has justifiably said that the old hat of unabsorbed profit is still a "new hat" and is still not implemented. We liberals, if I remember quite well, have been demanding this for more than 13 years. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The discharge of small and medium-sized enterprises in this Republic has not taken place. It should not be surprising, however, that the school system in Austria is increasingly discredited. I should like to remind you of the HBLAs for economic women's professions, for example, of the former women's vocational schools. There were four changes in the name within ten years and the loss of five concessions that were previously achieved within the framework of the Matura. How does this work, on the one hand, to make our school system Europe mature, but on the other hand, to the graduates of vocational education and training schools, take away those qualifications they have acquired and think that this would be more flexible? That is no longer flexibility; that is the prevention of that spirit of entrepreneurship, Mr Feurstein, which you have just spoken about. This is what threatens the people, namely that, despite certain conditions they fulfil, they have been removed from the concessions during schooling and even after the matura. One then imagines that it will give more entrepreneurs! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My previous speakers also criticized this hesitant attitude regarding reforms of all of our careers. The new occupations, particularly in the service sector, are more likely to result in over-qualified jobs. Once a nurse proved herself in practice, she could grasp a wide range of professions. Today, there are only the possibilities for disabled people and the caregivers to compare their activities with those in agriculture. All these new occupations include the former profession instead of building it up. It should finally be possible to create a training system by which each individual can diversify himself in the same way. It can't be sense and purpose in a state to introduce a regulation and always bear the key to deregulation on the lips! I believe, Mrs Federal Minister, that you have made it a little too easy today by limiting yourself to the field of social security and your ministry. I'm right about Mr. Feurstein. Consciousness is important. But the formation of consciousness within the framework of our federal government is not as it announces the placardial headlines, but as it is often presented in the newspapers today: Under a plural heading is the legal text, which has nothing to do with what is in the title. That is what threatens the people of this state, Mr Feurstein! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Do not make a trade reform that brings new regulations back and does not take place in the international equation! Make You don't have a school reform that brings back more regulation and no more freedom!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e4532	I would ask for the final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e4547	Ladies and gentlemen! I mean, if Austria does not finally think about it and makes the headlines the content of the laws, we will discuss the same thing again in a year, namely the lack of employment and more barriers in the economy.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e4575	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e4593	Good morning, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of Ladies and gentlemen! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I share your criticism of the informal summits, so I am convinced that it is necessary to organise informal summits. Mrs. Federal Minister! But from the wait, how this was presented and what impression people had to have - in view of the urgent issues such as work or the environment - when you see, the ministers are on trips, on visits, on tour, it was not good. - As far as that point is concerned. But, Mrs Schmidt, that was not enough for me. The subject was: Working time flexibility as an opportunity for Europe, work for all. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: That was just the beginning!]] - Then the subject of taxation and basic security should be strangled, but on the subject itself - that was not only your contribution, but also the contribution of some of the following speakers; Mr Vergestnich (S). — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Vergestnich, for his excellent report. I am once again of your opinion, Mrs Schmidt, when you say that the confessions are up to now. But it would also have been necessary and desirable to hear from the Liberal Forum something you imagine below. American social scientist Richard Sennet wrote a book that was published in 1998 and has the title: "The flexible person" - I am on the subject - in which he deals with causes and effects of working time flexibility and flexibility in general. He describes that it is very possible for people and that they also perceive this flexibility of working time as an opportunity to move forward in order to prevail in this competition. But - that's the crucial thing at Richard Sendet - he says people are involved, but they're not as bendy - a game of words with flexibility - as the economy can be, because the life of man is not only the work, but also something beyond. These human relationships cannot be modelled on the imperatives of the economy alone. This is the reason - which actually leads me to the initial debate, which was terrible and terrifying - why people no longer do, because on the one hand, in the economy they need to respond to ever more changing conditions and demands of flexibility and try to keep up with them and on the other hand in their private life no longer have time for their relationships, for their children, for the other people who are still there. Therefore, they are looking for authoritarian solutions, rigid solutions, past solutions, and propose that children should be educated as they were 100, 200 or 300 years ago - for fear that they will no longer be able to cope with this life. But this is the point that would be important in the context of working time flexibility. Basic security would also be important and serious to discuss. But the important thing is that we must not lose sight of the people, the people who have to go after the ever-changing conditions in the economy, in the working world, who are trying to meet that, but in their whole life, which is not just work, break it and demand authoritarian solutions, because they believe that they can better cope with it. That's what I want to see in the increasingly strong demands for even more flexibility and for statements such as: We want to do everything so that only somehow people can cope with it!, fear, namely, that we lose sight of people. For it is not about the economy or the people being too flexible. Millions of overtime hours are done in Austria per week. 20 million overtimes! Is that not enough? Or isn't that too much? If we need more night work, do we need even more Sunday work, for example for the bank workers, how this is being negotiated at European level? Should these also work on Sunday so that you can shop on Sunday? Or is it not more important to keep in mind that people do not break their employment relationships, but that they are also earning enough money in their short-term or whatever employment relationships? Because the subject of basic protection without work comes into the debate only because the people do not deserve anything more through the work. But if they don't earn anything by work, because income is too low, I ask the question of whether income without work will be enough to offer them a perspective.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e4623	I would ask for the final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e4638	That is why I think it is important to keep an eye on the work, but please do not forget the lives of people!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e4665	The next speaker is Mrs Schaffenrath. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e4684	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Vergestnitsch - but I can also say it in your direction, Mrs Sozialminister - I think it is good and nice to list here from this point of view, which is not all new to models - from the solidarity premium model to educational leave up to the sliding board. But what will always be forgotten is how few people actually use these new models initiated by you. This seems to be because they are very bureaucratic, they are difficult to deal with. Above all, it seems that you have not been able to bring people closer to these models. I am particularly sorry that Mr Vergestnich is no longer here, because he is the Social Democratic model of basic security... - I am glad that I see you, because I have to explain this to you in particular, because you are the model of basic care of a child care check, at least you have not put a significant similarity in itself. [[Abg. I'm here!]] I'd like to tell you one thing: We have never claimed that the basic guarantee would be a purely women's policy instrument. We have always said that it is about the existential security of all people. It is about creating the basis for a redistribution of work, also for the redistribution of work between men and women, and it is about creating the basis for making more flexible working time models, educational careers and so on also viable. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The child care check goes in a completely different direction, Mr Vergestnich. He has a completely different goal. This is also a redistribution of work, from women's work to men's work. This is about pushing women out of the labour market. Mr Feurstein said that the mothers could stay at home and that would be equal opportunities. - It's not equal! All the studies show that whenever it comes to family promotion, men want more money, but women want to work because, unfortunately, this is still the only chance of basic social security in our current social system. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] It will not work with half-day employment, just as simple as it is presented in an article that I take from today's edition of the "Kurier" - "From one to two". I mean, if the Secretary of State and the Minister of Women say well here that many jobs could be created and, in particular, if one takes better account of the needs of women and of young families, then there is a feeling. We know what disadvantages are associated with this classic 20-hour half-day work. We know that it is only offered in low hierarchies - pens, D-posts, primarily occupied by women - that we know the impact that this has on a career, that it is unlikely to make it difficult to re-enter career plans, and you, Mrs Social Minister, in particular, know that at 35 years of part-time work with an average income of about 8 000 s, a pension of 4 500 s is to be achieved. This is in the final consequence of the evidence that most of the compensation beneficiaries are at least women. The women do not voluntarily choose part-time work, they only have - I am speaking here of these 20-hour jobs - no other alternative due to the social reality that care work is allocated almost exclusively to women. Women are dependent on part-time work, but they can hardly live on it. In particular for this problem, I would like to draw your attention to our basic security model, because it is precisely the...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e4722	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e4738	Finally, Mr President. - It is precisely the poverty study in Tyrol that has shown that women with part-time work are particularly affected. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! If you want flexibilization, if you want other working time models, a redistribution of work, work for more people, you should not continue a discussion of basic security as persistent, though incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e4768	Mrs Silhavy is the next speaker, even if Mr Kiss is seeking to speak.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e4797	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! "Europefit through flexibilization - work for more people" is the motto of today's hour. And, like the liberals today, they have demonstrated in a shocking, inhuman way that no human suffering, be it so great and so inconceivable, is protected from being abused by this party for the debate on the Rules of Procedure, similar to the bad experience we had to have with this party today, the economy has for years been using keywords such as competitiveness, deregulation by flexibilization and similar indiscriminately opposed to workers' rights and against protection provisions. [[Vivid calls to the liberals]] [[Abg. Böhacker: This sentence is already printed in your manuscript!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Custom Be flexible! - If a machine is standing for a week because material has become too scarce, it means adapting it means that workers have to insert night shifts at another time in order to keep production emissions. Adjusting because just-in-time production has not been delivered in good time means that workers are sent home, but more hours later - when it comes to working around the clock - must work in order to maintain productivity. These forms of adjustment, ladies and gentlemen, do not create any new jobs. Flexibility cannot only mean entrepreneurship risk overwhelming to workers. The economy has no problem with flexibilization if, as in trade, it is pushing more and more people into part-time and small jobs, it has reduced more and more full-time jobs - Mr Vergestnitsch has clearly shown us the figures - but this same economy is rigid and inflexible when it comes to the right to part-time work after the karenz period for mothers. The child care check, Mr. Feurstein, has nothing to do with equal opportunities, but the childcare check should be a steering measure to push women back into the reserve army. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: For women already!]] If you don't need them, you leave them at home, and if you need them, you bring them back to the labour market. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] One thing, I believe, is undisputed: the reduction of working time is an important one of several measures to increase the employment rate. However, this reduction in working time must be designed in such a way as to meet the objective of full-time work and full-time work. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Only then will we be truly European, because Europe will only be fit if, in this Europe, man is at the heart of Europe when working people are at the centre of Europe. With the last Social Rights Change Act, we have decided on future-oriented new models that have already been addressed today. But these are individually perceptible. We will now be required to speed up the general reduction in working time. It is not possible for the reduction of working time to be carried out only on the back of certain groups of persons. Part-time work is an example. Mr Schaffenrath also pointed out that women are mostly affected and that parttime work is usually not existential. With regard to basic security models, ladies and gentlemen of the Liberal Forum, I fear - even if I think we should discuss everything - that it will be similar to other measures that have only been taken in the form of enterprise promotions. They do not serve to create full-time jobs, but even more McJobs, from which we all cannot live together. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: You don't have to live on it!]] In other words, the social risk is transferred from entrepreneurship, capital, to the individual working people. That's not our goal! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Grollisch.]] It is good that you have at least heard the name Marx. Perhaps this will contribute to your further education. I hope so! [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] Human beings at the centre - that means Europe's fitness. And this also means that we are striving to promote the general reduction of working time in order to reduce the risk not to individual groups of persons, but to have a social Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e4900	The next speaker is Mr Drunkl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e4918	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Austria's economic location is successful. Many key figures support this. The export industry is booming, and our businesses are Europe fit. Our employees are well equipped for Europe because of their good training. The figures indicate that this Federal Government is doing excellent work and that it has succeeded in setting positive accents for Austria's economic location. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I refer very consciously to the rules of commerce. The country needs entrepreneurs, because only they create jobs. And the new trade regulation, Mrs Schmidt, is designed in such a way that commercial law is no longer an obstacle to a potential founder - if you do not know that, then you have to study it carefully - even if I admit that, for example, we would have liked to take a bigger step in the field of sub-business. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Does this also know that colleague stupidly?]] I am incomprehensible that, on the one hand, we are talking about further liberalisation of the trade order, but on the other hand we are talking about involuntary self-employment or the danger of outsourcing, or that collective contractual concerns prevent part-time trade, Mr President Vergestnitsch. I appeal to the coalition partner and also to the social partners, because we need to be clear about this: Do we want business start-ups or do we not want them? If so, the collective agreements will have to be aligned with the fields of work and not vice versa. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A second example of an area in which we have been successful is plant law. We are pleased that 90 percent of the proceedings have been terminated within three months since the amendment. We thank the authorities that understood our message. A third area is apprenticeship law. Mr Feurstein has already mentioned this. We have set the framework conditions in such a way that we have actually been able to gain new businesses that are willing to give young people new opportunities. If in the past year 31 new apprenticeships were ordered, this means: new occupations, new opportunities. Nevertheless, we must try to speed up the authorisation procedure. I am surprised that in the last few weeks 20 professions have taken back the already given agreement. The economy changes daily, and it changes rapidly. The legislator is required to keep this pace as well. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. The market vendor, however, is not the goal!]] We are still preventing, Mr President, thousands of youth jobs by not giving the host industry the opportunity to train and work apprentices until 23 o'clock. [[Abg. That's contradictory!]] I would ask you to take a little of your point of view, because there are real opportunities here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But it's important to me to say: If we want to create flexible and competitive framework conditions for the Austrian economy, this is only subject to one condition: We must separate ourselves from the distrust with which we are facing many Austrian companies today. On the one hand we need and want entrepreneurs, on the other hand we meet the entrepreneur with distrust and overshadow him with regulations, with measures in which he ultimately sinks. More confidence is required at the occupational level, especially in the field of labour rights and in the implementation of worker protection. We should reorient ourselves to the majority and not make laws for individual cases. Let me also give you an example: None of us are talking about illegal employment, no one is talking about undeclared work, but the application to the local health insurance fund in the past does nothing in this respect. We are thereby punishing the amount, the majority of companies, and the person who wants to work illegally, will not make this application in the future. To sum up, therefore: We are Europe fit, we are successful, our EU presidency approach - I am very pleased to mention the appearance of our Foreign Minister in recent days - shows that we can still move a lot in Europe. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: "Appreciation" is the right word!]] If you allow me, Mr President, to formulate the final sentence in this way: Austria had a great influence in Europe a long time ago. At that time the famous formula was created: AEIOU. A modern, contemporary form might be: All Europeans inspire Austrian entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e5017	The next speaker is Mr Hermann Böhacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e5035	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! My predecessor's speech could be summarized - previous speakers - under the title: [[Abg. Kiss: Prior speakers, not predecessors! Vorsprecher!]] "Welcome in Paradise" - but that with an eyeband. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mrs Silhavy! You have, of course, once again, as with each of your speeches, first of all the blatant political groups have "shattered" whether their humane policies are in disrepute. This may have been pre-printed in your speech paper, or you might have forgotten. But now I'll tell you one thing: Do you know what human policy is? - This is the policy you are doing, which means that today, in Austria, working people with 50 and 52 years of age, no longer get work. [[Abg. Silhavy: Yes, what you do! That's it!]] [[Complaints with the liberals]] This is a despicable policy! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Silhavy: Tell the economy!]] However, there are thousands of young people in Austria who have graduated from school and are not getting a job - whether you have a bad policy in this Federal Government! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I would just like to say one thing to you, Mrs Colleague: I've been looking for a young employee for my firm. I received 80 subscriptions from 80 ordinary young people who have successfully completed the trade academy or the trade school. They've been looking for a job for months and don't get any. This is your humane policy in Austria! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Silhavy: Mr Böhacker, why didn't you look for 50 or 52?]] Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you have - but perhaps I have only misunderstanded it - referred to Belgium, the reduction of additional labour costs - not VAT, you have said wage-dependent costs - would not do anything. [[Abg. Value added tax! VAT reduction!]] Does that mean that you agree to a reduction in income-related taxes and taxes, or do you stick to your claim? [[Abg. Vergestnicht: wage tax reduction yes, but the Belgian Ministry of Finance has reduced VAT in order to strengthen the effect!]] Mr President of the Council! You're running a zigzag course here, which I don't quite understand. If you consider the reduction of working time to be the only target model, then this is one-dimensional and will certainly not solve the problem of unemployment in Austria. [[Abg. I didn't say that!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! It's amazing how loosely the word "flexibilization" gets over your lips. It has not been so long since, as you know, in the Chamber of Workers, in the union the word "flexibilization" was an appeal. He who took the word "flexibilization" into his mouth was a capitalist, an exploiter. Today - and this testifies to your ability to learn - you know that flexibilization is necessary. I give you the right, Mrs Federal Minister, flexibility must not be a one-way road, flexibility must not be carried out alone on the back of the workers - I give you absolutely right - although we must be aware that the Austrian economy, that Austrian entrepreneurs are then producing, must work if demand exists. And there is a need for flexibility in both the labour force and the business sector. What does it mean to be flexible? - I've been looking at the dude. [[Abg. Beggar! Intrusive!]] Flexible, bendable, yielding, moving, adaptable, supple. Who do you want to bend, Mrs. Federal Minister? Who should adapt? Who must be gentle? I'll tell you one thing: As the first measure, flexibilisation should take place in public administration. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In Austria, we need a smooth, slender public administration, because only then will the corresponding budget resources be available so that wage tax reductions can be implemented, as you and my colleague, Feurstein, have called for. One more point, ladies and gentlemen: They're always talking about wage tax cuts. Why Lead You don't get her through? Why don't you do it? - We liberals have developed a corresponding model. You just promise to do something, but you're not acting. This is your bad policy that you operate on the back of the workers. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e5203	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e5218	In order to create jobs, a rapid and efficient tax reduction is necessary. The motto is: Lower taxes and create jobs for Austrian workers.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e5245	Mrs Petrovic is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e5264	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The words "flexibility" or "flexibility" are words in which one or "woman" has to say very precisely what it means. Flexibility and flexibility can be something very positive in the sense of workers and companies. Flexibility can also be the perfection of an exploitation system. In that respect, I believe, one cannot only work with mere plateaus and dictionaries in this context, but it is necessary to say what is actually meant. It is similar to the word "solidarity", which - at least so far - has been equated with social solidarity, but has always been confused with arms brotherhood in recent times when it comes to NATO. Flexibility, which the Greens believe is useful or can be, must not be one-sided. But what is happening is quite one-sided. Flexibility presupposes that there is a basic social security - also in a material way. The Greens propose that there should be something like a minimum base in social security systems. It must be ensured that part-time work and weekend work do not create a phenomenon called "working some". These are people who, although coming from social security systems, deserve little to be able to live on them. These are primarily women; and then flexibilization is no longer positive. I mean, let's not lose sight of a point: As long as weekly, annual or life-time work per employee and employee is not reduced, there is certainly no positive job effect to be expected. In this context, I would particularly like to make an urgent request to Social Democracy. Mrs Silhavy said that many things that are more passive in the markets were contemptible. - Yeah, that's right. I'm just asking you: How have you used your power as the strongest group in this House so that these phenomena do not occur? Have the social infrastructure, kindergartens and care facilities kept pace with shop opening times? Do you not see, Mrs Silhavy, at the supermarket registers after 5:00 p.m. children whose mothers work there and do not know what to do with their children? - These are phenomena that I think are very worrying. I think we should take stock once after the introduction of the shop opening time system, which was rejected by me and by many of the Greens. What has this regulation brought? - Mr President, I should like to make one point. The share of precarious, poorly paid employment has increased dramatically. The answer should be minimum base. I think we need to consider something more. It is necessary, from the worker's side, to allow flexibilization in the sense of educational exemptions - in the sense of outtime in order to counter, for example, the "burn-out syndrome". That would be a sensible flexibilization. I would therefore like to ask you: Evaluate You're the one who made the change at the shop opening times! I claim that what happened here is the model Mariahilfer Straße and Shopping City Süd. But what one probably wanted and what would be useful, namely the small shops with small sales areas, with few to no workers to allow an increase in attractiveness - even by flexibilization - has not happened. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] These transactions continue to die in front of themselves. I am really looking for you - I think the ÖGB and the Chambers of Workers would also have the opportunity to do so -: Evaluate what has happened and work together on a meaningful model of flexibilization!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e5319	No one is reported in the word anymore. This concludes the current hour. I shall now interrupt the sitting until 12.30 p.m. After resumption of the meeting, the urgent debate on written question 4717/J will take place, unless we reach a different conclusion at the Presidential Conference. Before interrupting the meeting, I announce that a meeting of the main committee will take place immediately after the part-session in local VI, in three minutes, and after the end of the meeting of the main committee, the agreed presidential conference will take place. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e5352	Ladies and gentlemen! At 12.38 p.m., I will now resume the interrupted sitting. Request for urgent procedure Deputies Dr. Dieter Luke, Mag. Helmut Kukacka and colleagues in the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs concerning Brenner-Maut (4717/J)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e5389	We come to the urgent debate on the written question 4717/J. In the meantime, this question has been distributed to all Members so that a reading by the author is not necessary. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e5473	We are starting the debate with the statements made by Mr Lukesch. I give him the floor as the first questioner to justify the request. The speaking time is limited to 20 minutes. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e5502	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The Freedom Party, at the beginning of today's meeting, called this urgent question concerning the Brenner-Tout and the Brenner-Tout complaint not so urgent. The Deputy Executive Klubobmann Mag. Stadler spoke of a tactical maneuver of the ÖVP. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's it!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! Mr Scheibner. I ask you: What would the ÖVP be interested in moving the discussion about the Rosenstingl political scandal to the later hours of this day? - I assure you: We're not interested in it! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Leikam: The liberal scandal! The blue scandal!]] We are rather concerned about the urgent situation after the action against the Brenner-Tout, which we will have to answer in the next few weeks. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer:... we don't talk to each other!]] It is a matter of urgent concern to the Austrian and Tyrolean peoples. Take note of this! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Especially after the adoption by Austria of the Presidency of the Austrian Presidency, the Austrian people naturally expect a strong policy of content, which will solve a central problem in Europe, namely the road transport problem, in the common European spirit, putting efficient measures in the interests of the population. That's what it's all about! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You have always said that you expect the Presidency to be content. I can assure you that we too expect content from the ÖVP. A central point is, of course, the question of solving the transport problem. There are various occasions where this can be addressed. For the weekend, under the chairmanship of Minister Bartenstein, an environmental summit will be held. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: Not for traffic!]] Mrs Langthaler! Transport and the environment, of course, - I do not need to tell you - are very closely related. There will also be the opportunity to draw attention to environmental issues of a transport-related nature. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The situation around the Brenner-Tout complaint is somewhat confusing. The European Commission's decision to do so has already been a matter for about a year - as a damocles sword has been said - on Austria. However, it was only activated and introduced in June of this year. Austria - which should also be known to the public - now has about four weeks to comment on the ECJ. This complaint seems to me to be very lazy. Firstly, it is based on the old road cost directive which the European Court of Justice declared invalid three years ago and which is only in force for formal reasons. Of course, the EU's old road cost directive is also out of date, through an act of the European Commission itself, namely through the Green Paper on fair and efficient transport prices, which would also include external transport costs. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: You hardly hear anyone!]] One of the essential prerequisites for resolving the Alpine transit problem is, of course, the Landverkehrsagreement with Switzerland, which failed only a few weeks ago in response to Germany. In this respect, the action is actually paradoxical and hardly understandable. However, this Swiss Land Transport Agreement is the prerequisite for about one third of the transit traffic crossing the Alps to be relocated to where it belongs: on the most affordable and shortest route in the transport geographically. On the one hand, to prevent the conditions for solution in this respect, but on the other hand to bring an action, it seems to me to be paradoxical. Federal Minister! The first five questions I have addressed to you have the content of clarifying the Austrian reactions to this procedure, which I can only describe in a sense as a total paradox. One thing must also be clear to us: A reduction in the Brenner toll, as apparently required by the action, would naturally further increase the transport of road goods compared to the railway. However, such a procedure would be against the letters of the transit agreement concluded with Austria with the EU and the content and subject of the primary law of the European Union. It states that coordinated measures must be taken in favour of rail transport, for the benefit of the population and for the benefit of the environment. It is important not to question these objectives of EU primary law by means of a concerted action. Federal Minister! Question 6 addresses the considerations of the old Road Costs Directive, which highlighted infrastructure costs as an essential part of the implementation. It is also quite good to see what infrastructure costs and environmental costs are. Federal Minister! I'm absolutely convinced: For example, if we were to draw up the urgently needed noise protection measures in the interests of the local population in Tyrol within the framework of a construction project, then the current toll would without any problem also be justified in terms of infrastructure. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Federal Minister! Questions 9 to 12 refer to the so-called "maut-stretching". This is a newly introduced term, this is an extension of the toll calculation to the entire Tyrolean transit corridor. I'm looking for a clear positioning here. I cannot imagine that the Tyrolean economy is being burdened with such a special toll. This would probably also involve problems with Article 4 of the Federal Constitution - the uniformity of the economic and monetary territory of Austria. I can't imagine that transport policy wanted to push truck traffic back into the lower-ranking road system. This too would be completely incomprehensible and ultimately contrary to the European spirit. Because in times of a single market to rebuild new tolls at all access points to the motorway on the Inntal line would be truly paradoxical. What we can insist on is a virtual "tout-stretching" with collection at Schönberg. We can imagine that, but not the burden of the Tyrolean economy and the population by detour. In addition, it is also a comparison bill. One should actually put the figures on the table on how high the cross-country transit costs on other routes, i.e. in Switzerland and France, are actually. We Tyroleans, we Austrians are certainly not - as can be seen from German media - the EU's way-farers! We do not, however, want - and this should be noted - to be the cheap Jacob in transit policy and in transit! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion: Transit issues directly concern the population. In view of the timetable attached to this action, the very urgent question is. We need a much stronger EU commitment to railway solutions, for example. But we hardly need this paradoxical action by the European Commission! I therefore welcome the statements made by our Foreign Minister and President-in-Office Wolfgang Schüssel, who wants to remain firm on this issue and proposes not to offer new compromises. We have the people, we have the environment on our side!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e5625	The answer to this question is given by Dr. Farnleitner, Federal Minister for Economic Affairs. Mr Minister, your speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes if possible. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e5644	Mr President. High house! First of all, a brief preface to the history of this conflict: ==References== In May 1995, the Tirol Landtag decided that it would be advisable to delete the reduction in the number of passenger cars, to set the rates of 1 150 s for Euro and 1 500 s for non-euro vehicles, to double the night rate and to limit exceptions from the ban on night-time driving to low-noise and harmful vehicles. ==References== On 9 November 1995 this House adopted a resolution on this subject, which was then adopted by the Federal Government on 9 November 1995. Januarys with an increase in the burner toll per 1. 2. It was implemented in 1996. ==References== 4th of this year we received a letter of warning from the EU, and we now have it on 29 October. In May 1998, the Commission received the complaint. I'm going over all the intermediate steps now. It is essential, however, that the situation of Austria in the case of the European Union has improved significantly in recent years for several reasons. The first point: The negotiations with Switzerland have shown that Switzerland could achieve that a Member State would be treated worse than itself. That is why Austria has blocked the conclusion of these negotiations, and it makes sense to pursue this attitude. Second point: We've been thinking about in my house: In the case of Austria, the cost of transporting the Alps by way of calculation by Switzerland would mean that we could determine a tariff of about ECU 84 for the Brenner. This has changed the conditions for our discussions with the Commission. It has been my intention over the two years to avoid a complaint because we know that a complaint and any subsequent claims for damages are not necessarily what a country or an industry might wish for. However, the action brought in the meantime raises the following problem: We've got a 20-year-old. August time to answer the complaint. Any further compromise we make in the meantime weakens our position before the European Court of Justice. It may therefore only be that, while we are continuing discussions with the Commission at expert level, we are taking a hard line in the response to the action itself. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] It is also clear that, following the study of the action brought on the grounds of discrimination and because of an alleged cost of toll, we can also make every effort - I am replying to one of the sub-questions of Mr Lucisch - through construction measures on the Brenner motorway - I am thinking of housing from Innsbruck to Brenner - to exploit infrastructure costs in such a way that we can demonstrate much higher costs to the EU than we can at the moment. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: Does that make sense?]] That's why time works clearly for us: We are also thinking of taking similar measures with other sensitive parts of this road. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On the individual questions in the short term: Among the essential steps we are now planning is the response to the actions for which the Federal Chancellery is responsible. I have already pointed out the basic considerations on which our answer is based. In any case, it must be clear that we must by no means set a prejudice in interim negotiations. Questions 3 and 4: If we have given our reply, there is once again the possibility of the Commission to submit an opinion and a new reply from Austria, then the Advocate General of the European Union will prepare an opinion. I assume that Commissioner Kinnock has changed his position as follows: One can also imagine withdrawing the action if two things happen: if the total price on the line is 84 ECU and if the stretching takes place - which is already on some further follow-up questions - the extension of the decoration to the route from Kufstein to the Brenner. In this context, we are faced with the following problem of principle - I am now generally saying this so that I do not have to answer it separately on every question -: In the course of the last few weeks, the Commission has apparently also hardened its position under the impression of the influence of northern neighbours. There is now a tariff ratio for the Brenner - Innsbruck/Kufstein line of about 70 : 30 or 60 : 40, which would mean a ratio of about 700 S to 500 S. This is absolutely unacceptable for the Tyrolean economy, for the Tyrolean population. In this direction I have opinions from all the Tyrolean members of the state government - including the State Council Dr. Lugger. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] We have tabled compromise proposals, on which there was an expert report from the Federal Government, which proposed two possible compromise variants: on the one hand, a general reduction in the Brenner toll by the amount of 80 s - which was rejected recently by Mr Kinnock with Mr Kinnock - and the second proposal was the establishment of a very simple toll hut system on the Kufstein - Innsbruck route. I said for myself to this solution: This can only be suggested by someone who doesn't know the route; we would have the worst circumvention traffic there, which you can imagine. The federal roads would probably have been blocked, and we would then have to put these toll huts on each exit, so we would have a toll system. Secondly, There is agreement with all the experts of the ASFINAG that a stretching model - as always - and a road pricing model for the Inntal track, whenever implemented, should be carried out in the Austrian path and could be 2 s per kilometer. These were the original considerations. The Commission assumes that the amount is approximately threefold. That seems to us totally unacceptable. Next point: If toll-stretching is implemented, it must be an Austria-compatible solution. All surveyed experts say that a stretching as well as the Austrian toll model will be technically possible in 2001 according to the trans-route system also decided in the government. In total, it is therefore possible to say: In the next few weeks, it will be a matter of answering the complaint with the appropriate clarity, of taking the view that we can work with the same calculatorial approaches as Switzerland - we have heard from the Commission, despite the initial positive signals, rather negative answers so far. On the last question, which toll rates apply otherwise: Toll requirements as on the Brenner exist on the Großen-St.-Bernhard tunnel, on the Mont Blanc tunnel and on the Frejus tunnel. For trucks with three axles, tariffs on the burner 1 150 S per euro or 1 500 S per non-euro vehicle, at St. Bernhard 1 200 S and 1 250 S for four-axle and five-axle trains and on Mont Blanc 1 980 S. With return tickets, the toll on St. Bernhard is reduced to 960 S and 1 000 S respectively and on Mont Blanc to 1 600 S; on the burner there is no such possibility. The most affordable variants with multi-driving discount are at St. Bernhard 660 S and 960 S in the quadrilateral and five-axle areas, and at Mont Blanc, only longer-term payment options are offered afterwards, but no discounts are offered. Mr President. High house! It will be shown in the next few weeks that it is probably the better strategy to face up to the complaint and to present a strong argument. In any case, we must not give in now and we must fall into the trap - and this is what Mr Lucisch has also said -: The more vehicles travel on a route, the cheaper - that is the EU philosophy - the fare must be. The forthcoming negotiations on a new directive in this field will have to take account of these things. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e5696	Thank you, Minister of State. We are now entering the debate. Under the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes; each club has an overall speaking time of 25 minutes. The first speaker to speak was Mr Magistrate. Kukacka. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e5721	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The Federal Minister's answer showed: Austria has a clear line, the Federal Government knows what it wants, Austria is drawing a line towards the European Union - and this attitude deserves the support of this House as well. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We - I mean Austria - have not been put under pressure on us in the past either, nor have we been kneeling towards the EU in the past on this issue, and we have no reason to go on kneeling either now. [[Abg. Young: How about the Saving Book!]] [[==References====External links== Haller and young.]] I therefore also now, in the light of the EU's complaint, plead for appropriate serenity and, incidentally, also with you from the opposition. For I see on this question no special cause for pre-emptive obedience or unnecessarily reticulence. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, I do not see any particular problem in this case when this dispute is brought before the European Court of Justice and decided there. The highest courts - including at European level - are now in place to bring a final decision on various legal positions. Meanwhile - and I see this positively in this context - we are getting closer to the year 2001 with which the driving power-dependent truck toll is to be introduced, by the way. In addition, I would remind you that, contrary to several recent unconventions, Austria had the least conflicts with the EU Commission in applying EU law in the EU comparison. We have, as it were, been model students in the EU. If it is not in this case - and not in the anonymous savings book - we are therefore far from bad Europeans, but we are trying to base our arguments on our legal position. And this is our legitimate right! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] Mr President, I should like to thank What we need on this question is firmness and steadfastness, and above all the acceptance of the population. It is clear to us from the Austrian People's Party: The transit problem must continue to be solved in the future in agreement with the population. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Young.]] But that's what I'm saying: Our transit policy - Mr Colleague, listen to me! - is on the ground of the rule of law, the valid arrangements of the transit Convention and the applicable EU law. This is our position, and we will remain in the future. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The People's Party remains on the ground of the main committee's decisions of 13.6.1997 as regards the relocation of the Swiss transit through the EU's negotiations with Switzerland on the transport agreement. Austria can be self-confident because, as a result of the necessary unanimity, the EU must take into account the position of Austria on this issue. Ladies and gentlemen! The main committee has clearly stated: The special agreements in the transport sector with Switzerland must not be concluded without agreement on the Alpine transit. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's important!]] Austria does not accept any maladministration of the transits - especially in the Brenner - vis-à-vis Switzerland. That is to say, we are pressing for the same framework conditions as Switzerland has been granted and may become. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Without sufficient quota of Switzerland for the 40-tonne trucks, there is also no consent from Austria. The transport effects of the current toll rates must also be maintained. These principles, ladies and gentlemen, must at least continue to exist in the European Union's negotiations with Switzerland in the future, and we will also insist on them. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The experts of the EU Commission assume that some 600,000 journeys per year would take the brenner of the shortest way through Switzerland. If the Swiss now opens a quota of 120,000 journeys for the 40-tonne trucks, Austria could expect a theoretical discharge of up to 20 percent. From 2005 onwards, if the transit for 40 tonnes in Switzerland is completely released, the pollution of the environment in Austria should be closed at all. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a perspective that we can see calmly and positively. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] In view of the fact that, in the Brenner transit, the trucks increased from 850 000 in 1990 to 1.2 million at present - this is an increase of around 40 percent - we know, of course, that there is a need for action, the need for action in road transport, and the need for action, especially in the rail sector. It is unfortunate that rail transport via the burner has increased only slightly in comparison to road transport. The increase on the road is nearly seven times as high as that on the track. [[Abg. Böhacker: Why?]] In the Tyrolean report of the state government on transport policy, ladies and gentlemen, it says: Between 1991 and 1997, the volume of freight on the railway remained virtually constant, while freight traffic on the road increased by more than half over the same period. - There is no question, therefore, that the extension of the railwayway via the burner must be accelerated, that we have a major and important task ahead of us and that national efforts are needed to fulfil this task. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ]] Ladies and gentlemen! There is also criticism of Austria on this issue. I would remind you that on the occasion of the last Brenner blockade, the CSU transport speaker Dingledreiter said that the freight traffic on the rail over the burner was unnecessaryly slow and expensive. For example, road freight traffic over the burner could be reduced by 100 000 tonnes per year if the railway could guarantee the transport of fresh goods for the Munich wholesale market, which is not the case at present. He also said that the Austrian Federal Railways demand much higher train and tractor prices than the German Federal Railways and that the journey times for the 460 km long route from Munich to Verona are still far too long. Ladies and gentlemen! This is an important challenge. This criticism must be taken seriously. The Austrian Federal Railways also have to deal with this criticism. It must be speeded up quickly so that the train actually contributes to the solution of transit problems over the burner. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, there are also positive developments to be reported. I would point out that the rolling road Brenner is on the right track. ==References== In February, tariffs were significantly reduced by the ÖKOMBI, i.e. by the joint society of railways, freight forwarders and freight forwarders. With the start of the discount action supported by the Ministry of Transport on the Rolling Landstraße - and I mention this positively - the utilization of the Rolling Landstraße increased to over 90 percent. The key success factors of this action were the cheaper RoLa prices and the closer departure times in the two-hour cycle, which made the sparkers taste the transition to the environmentally friendly rail. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! That is what we need in the future, which is the right way, and this path must be pursued consistently. In this way, the Austrian Federal Railways must and should take an example, because there are obviously prices and driving times not optimal enough. [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] But, ladies and gentlemen - and I am therefore at the end of my remarks - all these transport policy measures that we have to put in place and put in place, which we support and demand, we will also continue to do so with the help of the Austrian Presidency. [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign the other day.]] We are thus making an important contribution to solving both Austrian and European transport problems.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e5880	The next speaker is Mr Eder. 5 minutes of time limit. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e5898	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I think that the urgent question put by Mr Lukesch and Mr Kukacka is well justified. I also see the problem that we are discussing as given and urgent. In my opinion, however, the urgency of this question should also be considered when we adopted a Federal Road Financing Act in 1996 which shows that road pricing for trucks should have been introduced by the end of this year. If this had been carried out as foreseen in the 1996 Federal Road Finance Act, we would probably not have a discussion today, because then the question we are discussing today would no longer be raised. [[Abg. Böhacker: And who's blocking here?]] Ladies and gentlemen! It was, however, in relation to the entire resolution and technical feasibility that the development of a functioning road pricing system took more time than planned. Unfortunately, I must confirm what Mr Kukacka said earlier: We are approaching the year 2001, but we are far from ready. Perhaps the reasons for not being able to come so fast, not only in the technical field, but perhaps too much was heard of those who did not want the whole thing. But I think it is important and necessary that my group continues to support this project, so that we finally come to a good and reasonable road pricing system and do not ask ourselves such questions as we are discussing here today in the context of European integration. Ladies and gentlemen! On this occasion I would like to point out a second, in my opinion very important, situation: There is a draft according to which the ÖSAG and the ASFINAG are to be melted. It does not mention the ASG, the Alpenstraßengesellschaft Tirol. If large companies, such as the Trans-Route in France, are able to manage a high-level road network with a length of 1,600 to 1,700 kilometres from a society, I believe it should not only be useful, but also necessary that we in Austria also have a special road company which manages the entire high-level road network in such a way that there would be complete integration in the field of technology applied, throughout the entire cost structure and also throughout the policy we want to do with road management. Mr. Federal Minister! I would ask you - I know how difficult the implementation is - not to give up, and to impose the thinking that we are coming to a reasonable federal road company. I believe that only that can be the way we should go. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Let me make a few comments on the current activities taking place within the framework of the ASFINAG. In this respect too, it is still necessary - I have already said this in the financial and economic debate and I would like to repeat it today - that, as far as possible, the entire preparations will be so far as possible by 2001 that in that year there will be the possibility of going into the test operation with the road pricing system for trucks. A number of preparatory work is needed to this end. In particular, these are the toll points drafts currently being prepared by the ASFINAG. In order to be able to draw up these and to have the appropriate legal conditions, it is necessary, in my view, that we make a repair in the Federal Road Finance Act of those paragraphs which have been repealed by the Constitutional Court. There is a need for clearer determination of which road trains are concerned. It is only when this is clarified that a definitive regulation may be adopted. This Regulation allows for the construction of around 24 main tombs and 70 secondary posts. This means that some 3.5 billion schillings are going into investment in the economy. I think that is very important. On the revenue side, it then looks as follows: If some 6.2 billion schillings from the new title are still coming from the ASFINAG, it will be possible - I got the ASFINAG's Annual Report yesterday - to finance the planned gaps with these resources accordingly. I'm ready to help and cooperate. - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e5933	Member of the Commission. Meischberger has spoken. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e5951	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! There is no longer any question of the rounding-up of the great coalition in questions of transit traffic in Tyrol. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Auer: Meischberger, don't be so presumptuous...!]] The power of large-scale transport policy stems from a request from representatives of the ÖVP to their own ministers. It seems that within the coalition there is no longer the possibility to speak rationally or to find a solution. For years now, Mr Kukacka has been hearing the same speech on this issue - with zero solutions, with zero solutions. The only crucial thing is that there is talk and talk and that for years the Tyrolean sand has been thrown into the eyes, without any measures being taken in transit that will make the habitat of the population more viable. The fact is that there is more daily travel, more stress, and worse daily. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Now you also confirm the urgency!]] In this situation, a political spectacle is happening with a urgent question, in which Deputie Lukasch seriously asks his own Minister of Economic Affairs what "Stretching" is. Every Tyrolean who reads the "Tyrol daily" is given this expression in their own headings almost daily, and everyone knows about it. Only here you use a urgent request to your own minister to clarify such terms. For me, this is the revelation of the major coalitionary transport policy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The core of the problem we are talking about today is the transit agreement of anno at the time. If we remember that transport ministers have already promised strings of the Tyrolean population from this place in 1987 to halve transit by 1992, and today, six years after that, we have almost doubled the value of 1987, we know where the whole is going. But in 1994 the transit traffic in Tyrol came the absolute overkill, the absolute disaster. This has no one else to blame than the current German Chancellor and then Minister of Transport Climate, who at that time, in large-coalitarian cooperation in the context of the accession negotiations to the EU, has offered the interests of the Tyrolean population and the state of Tyrol to the altar of EU interests. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We have two points to mention, which are really unacceptable for the country of Tyrol: On the one hand, this is the health burden, it is the limitation of the habitat on the transit line itself, and on the other hand - it has not yet been discussed today, but this is perhaps interesting for the Minister of Economic Affairs - the absolute damage to the tourist country of Tyrol, and this is sustainable. Previously there were beautiful mountains, ski racing, advertising images of Tyrol abroad. Today there are only more pictures of the burner, either of the traffic jam or of any demonstration, at least pictures of a chaos. The whole of Europe must think that this Tyrol is practically impossible to visit. Minister for Economic Affairs! This should make the alarm bells cry out in particular. It is really urgent to do something here. But what does the coalition do? - The SPÖ takes its stand out of the debate at all, and the ÖVP continues to wrest its eyes on sand to the people and try to gain time - time that we have not had for a long time. The head of state of Tyrol always speaks of his "air lock buildings" like the Brenner base tunnel. I can only recall his statement of principle in the Tyrolean Landtag. Dear colleagues from the ÖVP! In this statement, your head of state said that he was not satisfied with partial solutions that the entire Brenner-Bahn project would have to be financed, otherwise there would be no agreement for the EU accession of Tyrol. He said: We do not provide the EU with the habitat of our citizens, but at most the interior of our mountains for traffic. What happened? - It's all "snack"! There is no mention of an underground route at all. From a financing is far and wide nothing to be seen. A ceiling on the number of trucks - Mr. Lukesch, you can shake your head - is no longer the point, but this ceiling has exploded. That's the truth. For reasons of time, I do not want to go any further to the Fiasco around the eco-points. It has been debated in this House. Federal Minister! They have further strengthened the chaos and contributed to it. You promised on 4.10.1996, in a broadcast of the ORF-Tyrol - I even had the press service there - to the Tyrolean population that there was no deviation from the Brenner-Tout. After that, the compromises came: You lowered the toll by 80 s. Of course, the population protested for fear of overburdening. Then there was this stretching story that would have fatal effects on the Tyrolean economy. The Tyrolean economy should pay the bill by means of a unique discrimination in the EU to ensure that the Federal Government is unable to make an attractive transport policy. - There were many other points. To conclude: Your Federal Party observer shot the bird yesterday in the "Tyrol daily" by saying that we could easily face this complaint. We would have every room for complaints, since we have been the model student of the EU so far. Mr Kukacka repeated this and confirmed this model student syndrome of the ÖVP towards the EU. That's incredible! Let me tell you one more thing: Complaints - the rights of the Tyrolean population must be safeguarded! In order to achieve this, I would like the EU's child of concern, Tyrol would like the EU's child of concern and of Austria the EU's child of concern. Unfortunately, we can't start anything with your model student syndrome in the Council presidency. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This presidency will be reunited into a terrible hangover at the latest during the 1999 parliamentary elections. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e6059	Mr Magistrate has now been reported to speak. Barmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e6077	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Lukesch, this question is by far the most specific urgent question I have ever experienced in this House. I already agree with you that this whole problem is urgent and also important. However, this has not been the case since the EU brought a complaint, but, of course, it has been much longer since, for example, since the Austrian Federal Government established in the National Environmental Plan that in Austria they want to enforce the cost-truth in transport. Since then, this problem has been urgent. In the negotiations on the new Road Costs Directive, it would have been necessary to have been much stronger on the part of Austria than the cost-truth so far. I see only one ÖVP that has been torn back and forth between the federal level on the one hand and the national level on the other. It is torn back and forth between a head of state, who - if you already want to talk about tourism damage here - says Tyrol to the Tyroleans, and everyone else should please stay outside, no one comes in, and no one is allowed to pass through, and an ÖVP involved in the Federal Government, which is under the pressure of the Früchterlobby and does not know where to turn and turn. As a result, there is such a urgent question with which you are confronting us today. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: The Commission does not, Mr. Cot,...!]] The Federal Minister, at the beginning of his statement, said that he wanted to make a few general remarks first. I thought about it: Interesting! When he was finished with the general remarks, he settled down again without having said anything about the individual questions. However, I would be interested - the questions asked are not uninteresting - in what really looks like with the European Commission's demands to Austria regarding the so-called toll stretching. I would also be really interested in what Austrian solutions have been developed and communicated in this regard. I did not hear that from the Federal Minister. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: You didn't pay attention to that! The Minister explained this! You need to be careful!]] And do you know what he didn't say? In particular, he has not said which infrastructure cost calculation is available for the Brenner corridor and which comparable invoices are available in other countries. Infrastructure cost comparisons - a highly important question! Mr Lukesch, with me the impression remains that today - and this is particularly true of the speech by Mr Kukacka - you are... [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: He drew attention to an important problem!]] I'll tell you what he wanted: Mr Kukacka has carried out here in a broad and powerful manner how firm Austria will be on this issue. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: He's not powerful!]] You won't like anything at all. I guarantee you: The EU is already trembling. After Mr Kukacka's speech in Brussels, Neil Kinnock is already on the forehead. Mr Kukacka said this in the knowledge that the Austrian people, especially the Tyrolean people, who, of course, have expected a great deal from the transit treaty, today have to take note of the fact that they have not told the German Government the truth. And that will remain so on this question too. EU policy and the EU's acceptance in Austria suffers from this: it seems that one is not prepared to enforce what one has promised in the country itself, that one should go to the knees in front of individual lobbys, and that in the future one wants to make the EU responsible for something for which it is not responsible. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Read the transit contract! Then you will see where the failure of the EU is!]] It is true, Mr Luke, that the Council must make it clear that the whole - all of it - must be made clear. - transport problems can only be dealt with with with with the cost-reality of transport. It is interesting that there seems to be completely different views in the Federal Government on this issue. When it came to the ideas of the Austrian Presidency on the subject The Federal Minister for Transport has referred to this Green Paper, which deals with fair and efficient prices in the transport sector. [[shows it]] He has said that we will develop it further, and we will take the necessary steps to implement it. In this Green Paper, all other questions are also mentioned; you just need to read, that's what you can look at. Only: That's not in line with what you said here. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Of course!]] This is not in line with what Mr Kukacka said, and in particular it is not in line with what Mr Landeshuptmann Weingartner is doing in Tyrol. It can be seen that this federal government is in fact no longer aware of the problems of transport. And precisely with that, you confront the Austrians, namely, with a completely blank, inconsistent transport policy. These are the fruits of it. You must finally take note that this needs to be changed. As long as you don't change that, these problems will last for so long. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] If there are rules at European level on how to measure a toll it will be made in accordance with these rules. Mr Kinnock, Commissioner, has already said to our Federal Minister: My dear friend, law is law! - And that's the way it is. Law is law! That's not what you're coming by, and Austria can't say, we're talking a little back there and we're doing something different. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: And the Green Paper is irrelevant or how?]] It is not irrelevant, but it should be speeded up its implementation. The principles contained in the Green Paper and also in the National Environmental Plan and to which the Federal Government has committed itself should finally take place in politics. But they don't! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] With the statement that if our toll does not hold, then we will say that we are making a housing, and we will assume a much higher cost of infrastructure than we are currently able to predict - these were the words of the Federal Minister - it is true that today the infrastructure costs of the toll do not correspond. This makes it absolutely clear that we have the problem at European level. And again: Law is law, and calculation rules are calculation rules. If one does not confess to a reorientation in principle, then we will experience even more often here in this House such helpless debates, initiated by our Federal Government. The transport problem will not change. That, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, will certainly not be the consent of the Liberals. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e6215	Next speaker is Mrs Ing. Langthaler. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e6234	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This urgent request offers a good opportunity, especially for two areas, to discuss: On the one hand, the absolute failure of the Federal Government's transport policy can be shown by the example of this EU complaint, and on the other hand, it can be seen that you are still not aware of how Europe's policy works. Mr Kukacka! It is impressive to listen to you and believe that what you say is serious. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Thank you!]] I really hope that you do not take what you said here today seriously. Otherwise, it would really be a testimony to the fact that you do not know how the European Union works, when and at what time an action is brought at all. Now, Mr President, I would like to ask you to take this kind position, which is also addressed to you, Mr Minister, apparently without considering strategies, without creating framework conditions in the event that this action is actually successful - and you know exactly, Mr Minister, that it is not quite so dissuasive that this action is successful - that is irrational! Your answer, Mr Minister, was also irresponsible in this sense, as was the speeches made by the ÖVP. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In one I give the ÖVP right: This question is urgent, the subject is absolutely urgent. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's why we brought in the urgent ones!]] I would therefore like to remind you once again, at the beginning of my remarks, of what the traffic situation in Austria generally looks like. I have an official report of the state of Tyrol here. Mr Lukesch, Mr Khol, you are certainly also interested in this issue, since it concerns your federal state. I can show you an up-to-date report from 1997: Transport development in Austria 1980-1997. [[The speaker shows a diagram.]] There has been a doubling, Mr Klubobmann Khol! However, a doubling of the traffic burden in Austria does not happen by chance, because no appropriate policy takes place. This happens when two ministers do transport policy, which does not act together but against each other, which means that there is a double expansion of the infrastructure, such as in the case of Semmering. We have often discussed this issue enough here. One wants to build a tunnel for the railway, the other to build a tunnel for the road. This goes completely by and shows quite clearly that there is no coordination, no strategy, no planning. And then it is obvious that the EU - as with the Brenner-Tout - is making a serious and, as announced, prepared and filed a complaint. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Let me show you a second chart, which shows once again what is to be thought of when you are talking about the need to finally increase traffic on the rails that is necessary in the sensitive Alpine area. Look at this, an official report from the country of Tyrol If you compare the development of freight traffic on the road and on the railways, you will see a document of your failure in transport policy, a document of the state of Tyrol showing you where the transport policy of the Federal Government has led us. [[the speaker shows a diagram the other day]] [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Schaffenrath]] There has been an increase in the burden on the population - it is unreasonable how people are doing there - due to an enormous additional load of carbon dioxide, with nitrogen oxides, with other pollutants, an enormous increase in noise pollution, a corresponding reduction in the quality of life. The reference to tourism is undoubtedly true, but I would particularly like to point out that people have to live 365 days a year and that this permanent and increasing traffic burden is unbearable for these people. Not only does the country of Tyrol have these documents of a failed transport policy, including the OECD. There is an OECD report, which makes it very clear that Austria must change its transport policy, that it must change its policy more towards environmentally sound transport policy. Austria has the strongest traffic volume in the Western European region after Greece with regard to growth. We are at the forefront, not by chance, but because of the political failure of these two ministers, who work against each other, also on questions of the Brenner-Maut, and of course also because of the incredible cost development, namely a permanent approval of truck traffic. On the occasion of this debate, I would just like to mention a number of people who can demonstrate how cheap truck transport has now become in this country. Just a few years ago, the revenues from the road usage fee amounted to 3.5 billion schilling. Today, Mr Luke - you will know, I suppose - it is 900 million schilling. The consequences are logical. The short period of time in which one has actually tried to get the goods on the train is over. [[Abg. Wabl: This is the transport policy of the ÖVP!]] The increase in truck traffic on the road has happened due to this completely wrong cost development and not by chance! Ladies and gentlemen! We have known for a long time that the EU is affecting the Brenner toad. We know for a long time that it is necessary to create framework conditions, and I am really horrified, Mr Minister, that you are in exactly the same position as you have in recent months and apparently believe that, if you remain stubborn, the Commission will already change its mind. In transport policy, it is not only necessary to make clear changes in the direction of public transport, to develop railways, to increase the cost of transport, but in particular to promote the transport of goods by road. The proposal of the Federal Government, which you have repeated here today, Mr Minister, is: 2 s per kilometer. That's unacceptable! You know exactly that there is an EFTA investigation on behalf of the Ministry of Transport, which shows you, the Federal Government, that this will not lead to a change in the volume of transport. This amount is far too low. In the last two, three, four years, the fans have won so much that they hide this increase of 2 s per kilometer, which does not change at all the increase in truck traffic. Our objective is that, throughout Austria, but especially in the sensitive Alpine region, there will be a massive reduction in the burden of transport, and that requires appropriate economic conditions. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I put forward two motions for resolutions in this debate, and I am delighted to see how the Tyrolean Members will act in particular. Both applications are directed towards the need to make arrangements in the event that this action is successful. Preparations for this and the strategy must now be started. Mr Lukesch, I know exactly what will happen: If the complaint is going to be successful, you'll be at the speaker's desk here and say: Oh, she was successful! Unfortunately, we now have to go down with the toll, unfortunately we have to open the locks completely! Bad EU! We would have been so model schooling, but unfortunately, unfortunately - the evil EU is to blame. They thus promote a mood in the population, which is directed against Europe as a whole, which shows that one is powerless to bring people to the streets and which contributes to radicalisation. And that really can't be in your mind! I am surprised that the EIA is pursuing such a policy, especially in this sensitive area. That is why I make two requests to ensure the level of toll, Mr Lukesch, as she now applies in Tyrol. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Here you will meet the Tyrolean economy in the middle of the heart!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] The second motion for a resolution, which would also be essential if the action were successful, reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: This is pre-emptive obedience!]] Ladies and gentlemen! An open, completely incompetent attitude will probably not be enough to succeed in this sensitive causa. I hope that the ÖVP has more to offer than in today's debate! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e6385	Both motions for resolutions, Mrs Ing. Langthaler has just submitted, has been handed over in accordance with business rules, has been sufficiently supported and will be included in the negotiation. The next speaker is DDr. Decliner. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e6407	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I think that this discussion requires one thing, namely a certain honesty: Honesty to the European Union, but also honesty to our citizens. I would like to start by telling you, Mr Langthaler, from here, how I will vote, or how we will vote, with no. But first to the content. They say that the Federal Government has to do this toll stretching immediately. That would be more than insidious! It is still part of a negotiating position - a negotiating position which requires the withdrawal of the action in return. If we now say that we are extending the toll, with all the negative accompanying appearances, and the action still depends on us, then we would not have really won anything with this request. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] To the night's ban. Federal Minister In any case, it has already been noted to me that, if the action or the procedure is to be carried out in two years' time, there is also the possibility of a ban on the night-time driving of trucks. In the present situation, however, I would think it unfair - I say this quite openly - to demand the transport industry to change the trucks gradually in order to convert expensive money to low-noise and low-noise trucks, if it is not yet clear whether, when the fleet is converted, it may not happen to a night's ban. You must not do such a thing without real urgent reason! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The brilliance of the subject has already been mentioned here. I think that if the Federal Government has a deadline until the opinion is delivered, then we must take the opportunity to discuss this issue here. This brings me back to colleague Langthaler. They meant that Austria had to change transport policy. I am quite right for you to a certain point. But it would really be a trick of the population, if we were to give the impression that on the route from Kufstein to the Brenner we could regulate the cost of European transit traffic. That's impossible! It is impossible for us to bring about the truth of costs on this short route. This is only possible with the EU Road Costs Directive for all EU routes. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: I do not defend the Road Costs Directive!]] You know that very well! That is why the negotiating position in any case is to bring our interests into this road cost directive in a massive way. That's the most important thing! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] We want to charge external costs, of course we want the sensitive corridors, and we also want cross-financing options. We know that the European Union is at first sight in this context. Since 1995, the existing Road Costs Directive has been repealed, but it is still valid until a new one comes. Who are the opponents of a new road cost directive? - It would be wrong to say that it is the EU or the EU Commission. The EU Commission has tried very well to make a reasonable proposal - you know Neil Kinnock has been very committed - but individual Member States are opposed. Minister Farnleitner spoke of a northern neighboring country. Let's open up who this is: It is Germany that is very massively blocking the contract with Switzerland as well as fighting our toll. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: Bavaria!]] But there is another need to differentiate. It is only fair not simply to say that Germany is that, but it is the current German Federal Government that represents this position. We know from the debate in the German Bundestag that the Social Democrats are taking a different position in this regard, which would be much more sensitive to our intentions. Federal Minister! I therefore think that we are very much in favour of this position of the Federal Government, which you mentioned, but it is important to keep the European Union from doing something - I am thinking of the annex to infrastructure measures - in keeping with its promises in our transit agreement. This is also part of an agreement that both parts comply with their obligations. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e6472	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e6491	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The urgent question put by the Austrian People's Party is, if one analyses exactly what words were found in the reply, and if one hears the comments of Mr Kukacka and other ÖVP parliamentarians, nothing but a sense, an admission that one cannot deal with the problems. [[Complaints with the liberals]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am surprised to note that a Member of the SPÖ has the word "honestness" in this context. I believe that on the subject of honesty, Mr Niederweiser,... yes, I am saying that very well. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Say the Firlinger!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: "Dearly" says the Firlinger!]] Mr Khol! I can afford that, unlike you. To return to Mr Niederwieser [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Simply honest, simple Rosenstingl!]] The honesty of the government groups, this honesty has already remained entirely on the line in the run-up to the EU accession negotiations. [[Call the ÖVP:Rosenstingl!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: You have been honest in every group!]] Ladies and gentlemen! They have proposed to the Austrians that the transit problems would be dealt with by the transit agreement. - None of this, ladies and gentlemen, has occurred! You have embarrassed yourself in front of the Austrians and also in front of the EU, ladies and gentlemen of the government groups! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Auer: Firlinger speaks of honesty! You have to ask Schmidt how honest he was!]] Mr Kukacka said that there are not many legal violations, just a few small ones. - We have serious problems with the European Union, Mr Kukacka, take note of this at last! Anonymity, transit agreement - that's nothing, I ask you! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I don't think it makes sense to keep your head in the sand. That won't solve the problem. It also makes no sense to speculate whether there will eventually be a solution between the EU and Switzerland. I do not think you should do the bill without the host, because the Swiss, the oaths, are not with God that they will repeat once again the mistakes made by the Austrian government before accession to the EU. Don't always explain others as stupid! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: He has no idea!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The problems must be solved by an offensive strategy. In the course of the debate, we took part in the debate. It also points out in November 1994 that it is not enough to increase the toll and wait for what is happening, but that it also needs measures, such as structural measures. I heard from the Federal Minister that he was doing this. - Mr. Federal Minister! Only announcements are too little for me, you also have to implement them. I also believe that we must provide the proof of costs here. This is like an economic enterprise that has a depreciation in its balance sheet. If it no longer makes depreciations, the company will be less valued, and then it can also charge the customer less. I think that is exactly the same thing we must do in terms of structural measures from a national economic point of view. That is why I shall now allow myself to put forward a motion for a resolution which aims exactly in this direction. I can also politely ask the representatives of the government parties to support this request, if it was all serious. [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Aha! Listen to Meschberger!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is nothing but the European Union to make clear to the Commission the alternative: Either there are renegotiations on transit, renegotiations in the Austrian interest as regards the Road Costs Directive, or we will make the toll more expensive, but this time through structural measures. This clear language must be formulated, it must be put on the table - and not beautiful weather slogans, as we have heard from our colleagues in the government.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e6661	The Magistrate. Firlinger's motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported and is included in the negotiations. The next speaker is Mrs Schaffenrath. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e6683	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Minister, you have given a brief look at the circumstances in Tyrol at the time of your reply to your question, and you have actually done so in the 17th century. May 1995 started or stopped depending on which direction you want to see it. I have to say to Mr Meischberger that the cause of the present problem is much more than that.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e6704	Excuse me, Mrs Deputies! - Please close the door! - Please, ladies and gentlemen, continue.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e6719	Thank you, Mr President. - Deputy Meischberger! You have already pointed out that the problem of transit charges goes much further and is in fact already justified in the transit contract. I believe that we should not forget that this transit treaty or this transit agreement has been negotiated by the current government parties, that the values that have been established are very generous, I would like to say, and that there has been another step towards deterioration in the EU's accession negotiations. In addition, in the knowledge of the problem of this transit contract, the head of state of Tyrol has defended the same, the whole of which has been garnished with threats against Vienna, and thus has called for implementation of the foreseeable defects and problems for the Tyroleans. And it is now precisely this head of state Weingartner - for which Mr Lukesch has made weak electoral struggles here - who turns to the blockers on the Schönberg without taking advantage of his own political margin of action, namely that area for which he has and still has competence. The costs for transit are the one side, but there is another component, and there is the question: Where are there long-term, thought-out traffic control measures in Tyrol, such as bans, speed limits for trucks? - There's no such thing as Tyrol! Above all, there is no control, although the competence lies exclusively with the head of state, because he can apportion the Gendarmerie accordingly because he can decide where to check in Tyrol whether rest periods are respected, whether the weights are respected, whether derogations are necessary. Where is the control of tyre profiles in Tyrol, Mr Lukesch? [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: For this we have a Transport Land Council!]] This is in the competence of the head of state, but he does not benefit from his political scope for action. It makes the Tyrolean motorway even more attractive for transit. You know that as well as I do. Let us also address the missing spatial planning policy of the Tyrolean ÖVP in the past! It is true that spatial planning for transport policy is an essential instrument if it is to be used forward-lookingly and in the long term or well thought out. But we have a lot to complain about in the past, and there are clear political responsibilities for that. Mr Lukesch! You said here today that the Damocles' gravity of the EU's complaint hangs over us and this circumstance is the reason for this your urgent request. I'll give you that! But we should consider why this has come about. Minister for Economic Affairs! They agreed on the extension of the toll or toll stretching together with the other members of the government on 10.3. On 18.3. there was a corresponding agreement between the Minister of Transport and the European Commission. That was decided. In my opinion, however, you have made a different decision on the last consequence of the misinterpretation with the head of state of Tyrol. They have failed the possibility of averting this action. They have postponed the implementation of the extension of toll from Kufstein to the Brenner to 2001, although it would have been possible - and this is what Mr Verkehrsminister said - to deal with it within a year. You're taking a big risk. They take the risk that Austria may have to pay a billion-dollar compensation, and the payment of this compensation would at least have an impact on the Austrian economy and also on Austrian taxpayers. Minister Farnleitner! You'll certainly correct that. In any case, I read on 6.7. in the APA - and in my opinion this is a false information to the population - that Austria is still up to 8.8. a time limit to avert the action. The speaker of Kinnock has not heard anything of this time, she knows only one deadline, namely 20.8, and within that time limit, Austria should respond accordingly to the EU's complaint. Foreign Minister Schüssel has put the crown on the whole by saying - and Mr Lukesch is supporting him and calling on him to remain steadfast - that it would be quite positive to be sued by the EU. You, Mr Farnleitner, believe that it would still be a period of two years, so to speak, within which we could have some thought. I really think this is a policy that I can only refer to as "the head-in-the-sand-stitches". From my point of view, this is rather an inappropriate attempt to get away from EU elections, from country elections and perhaps even from national elections. [[Accompaniment with the Liberal Forum and the Abg. Ing. Langthaler.]] Minister Farnleitner! They have today brought the discussion into the discussion of homeing the motorway from Innsbruck to Brenner. I must ask you if you do not know the motorway from Innsbruck to Schönberg. Is that your overcoming the toll problems on the Brenner motorway? If so, then I strongly doubt that Austria is positioning itself strongly and competently in EU issues and in questions of EU transport policy. What I have missed from your side are clear statements on cost-truth on Austria's roads, cost-truth also for Austrian freighters - we do not distinguish between good Austrian and poor European freighters - and also clear statements in the direction of transport avoidance, transport reduction, and indeed Austria-wide. I very much regret this - also in the name of all Tyroleans.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e6763	Mrs Petrovic. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e6781	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The problem we face in Europe in terms of transport policy lies in the fact that the free movement of goods is fundamental and, if necessary, can be enforced with complaints, while a fundamental right to health, a fundamental right to an intact environment and a fundamental right to preserve life is still neither formulated nor securitised. Against this background, it is not surprising that the population whose health has already been burdened or attacked has no other way of going on the road. It cannot put on a right because the rules of the game are unfairly formulated. Against this background, the Austrian Federal Government also operates. Only: There would be much more room for play, which it could exploit than it actually uses. There was once an Austrian Chancellor who complained that ground apples were transported from Germany to Italy on the road to be washed there and then transported back to Germany for consumption. My question is: What has the Federal Government done since then? - There is a wealth of concepts, a bunch of measures that have the content of how to gradually get to the road traffic blinds. My colleague Monika Langthaler has just mentioned the most important measures. I would like to point them out more precisely here. First: Of course, road transport, in particular road transport, which overloads and damages the roads, must be expensive. Secondly, It is necessary to make public transport more attractive and, as long as there is no cost-effectiveness, to be supported and publicly promoted. Thirdly, We need to develop new concepts for a general kilometre-dependent style of road transport, not only on particularly heavy routes. Fourth: It is necessary to build the infrastructure exclusively - I emphasize: exclusively, Mr Federal Minister! - strengthen and expand public transport and no longer promote individual transport. As long as unfair rules are applied - and this is the case - and both infrastructures are being developed to the same extent, as long as the following happens: that clearly only the road traffic has an advantage and, even if you invest there, no benefits can be achieved. This is due to the rules of the game almost like a natural law. But the Federal Government does not react in the necessary way. There was a short bend in the corresponding shear curve: This was the introduction of the road transport contribution. But since then, the opposite has happened - you can read it from the statistics -: [[the speaker presents a graphic]] At the beginning of the 1960s, 85 percent of rail transport took place. Now 75 percent of the traffic is on the road. But this is not due to any natural law that would have timing its effect, but to the political failure of this federal government. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now also a word to the address of the liberals. It is already clear that transport policy at the federal level is being made by the Federal Government, but a certain proportion of this development probably also has the FPÖ Council in matters of transport policy. Transport in Tyrol, and he too has not fully exploited his possibilities. It has been said by one of my previous speakers that this problem, particularly with regard to the burden on the population, can be addressed by structural measures and, on the other hand, by putting the cost of tolls tolls. To this end, I must say: I think this is a completely wrong approach. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Smolle and Hans Helmut Moser.]] The problem of expatriate road transport is not technological but only politically soluble. But it takes courage, and you don't seem to have it. [[New condolences with the Greens and the Abg. Hans Helmut Moser.]] One more thing, Minister of State: When Austria was in front of the EU referendum, representatives of the government parties promised high and holy that environmental standards would not be affected. I believe that this graph clearly proves that the opposite has occurred: [[the speaker presents a graphic]] At that time, there was a load of about 70 000 s per heavy truck per year. It went down to about a quarter. It is probably not possible to talk about the same environmental standards. What have you done since then? - The only state in Europe in which the population has begun a referendum to launch a really efficient transport policy is Switzerland. But it does not have Austria as an ally, but as a bitter opponent in Brussels. The Swiss population has proposed a bar to heavy road traffic through tonnage limits and other restrictions, and for autumn there is also a referendum on a general, kilometre-dependent toll. What is the behaviour of the Austrian Federal Government in Brussels? - The only point I have ever heard is that Switzerland should not be treated better. What does "better treatment" mean? Does "better treatment" mean higher environmental standards? Should Switzerland not be allowed to comply with this? Should we not also claim this better treatment for our people?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] Is it really the Austrian line, the only state in which an effective counter-strategy has already been designed by the population, to fall in the back? Can it be the Austrian line to say that in the Alpine region all have to be pushed to the worse limits? Mr Federal Minister, this is not a sensible way of doing this! Austria should be glad to have a neighbouring state which, for whatever reason, has not yet been subject to the Road Costs Directive and which has been able to develop a counter-draft. I ask you: Should we not strengthen this state and its population and try to win these higher environmental standards, namely protection standards for the health of the population, for us as well?- Oh, my God! Federal Minister! I am really disappointed about the policy of this Federal Government, and I believe that it is a realistic assessment, unfortunately, that Austria is really in the process of honouring the free movement of goods at the expense of health, in this dance around the golden calf, and that you are just waiting for the EU to make a judgment that will lift the Austrian higher tolls so that you can say: We wash our hands in innocence, it's not up to us! You can then inform Mr Maderthaner and the stupid that the higher loads have fallen and that in Austria the golden calf and the free movement of goods triumph. Very sad for Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e6902	The next item is the report by Mr Graf. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e6920	Mr President. Mr. Minister! This urgent request - allow me to say this salopa expression - is really a joke! In fact, when the issue was announced, I expected a sharp settlement from the Members of this House, perhaps some of the government parties, with regard to the untimely and unfortunate transit agreements that Austria has made. But no mention of it, no word at all! It is not a question of who bears the responsibility for today's state. There is no criticism of the current German Chancellor, who, as Minister of Transport at the time, is responsible for what we rightly have to complain about today. No other material important questions are asked in this urgent request. The questions are only common places. For example, Mr Lukesch asks what the further steps of Austria will be in this process. - It's all good and good. It will be possible to clarify this in a personal discussion with the Minister. You will also ask what steps are being taken by Austria to prevent the action. - We've heard of it relatively little so far. The subject of the urgent question, however, is the area of responsibility for dealing with the action. Mr Lukesch! I know you're one of those who in the ÖVP have chosen to throw nebula grenades. If it is true to distract you from a really important topic, you will be sent out here to the speaker's desk. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lukesch.]] We have already experienced this during the debate around the Academy of Art, and we are experiencing it again today. In reality, this request only serves to distract us from the real issue. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] The only ones who have a real interest in distracting from the Causa Rosenstingl - if you say so, I give you an answer - are you with your business association, which has concluded agreements with Rosenstingl. In reality, Rosenstingl was sitting with you in a boat and never with the liberals! You have to take note of that! In fact, you do not want this to be clarified. [[New condolences with the liberals.]] [[Lively ironic hustle and bustle of Abg. Dr. Khol.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There is indeed a major transit problem in Austria, and this is not only limited to Tyrol. But Mr Edler from my constituency - he is not here again when it comes to it; I am sorry - has not lost a word on it. [[Abg. Grabner: Where's Haider?- Oh, my God!]] I say it again: In fact, there is a transit problem throughout Austria and not only in Tyrol. I have also spoken here because I wanted to point out that there is a transit problem in Vienna too, and this deserves as much attention. It is time for this problem to be finally dealt with here in the House. The south-east tangent, the most frequent road in Austria, is always left out on these topics. There is a lack of the northeast crossing and the southeast crossing of Vienna to actually free those residential areas in which masses of people live from suffocating traffic. No word was said about this. When it comes to transit, however, one will not come around to finally regulate the problems of transport in the east of Austria. In fact, you would have needed action, and the Minister is invited to finally present concepts for it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e6992	Mr Scheibner is also speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, Mr. Deputies. Similarly, 3 minutes of voluntary time limit.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e7010	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! That the ÖVP does not consider its own urgent request to be very important is already seen at the composition of the speaker list. After the first two speakers, we are waiting for further comments from your party to be followed, perhaps further comments on those statements by Mr. Weingartner, who, before the EU referendum, guaranteed that he would not agree, if not a clear regulation for the transit agreement and for transit traffic, for the solution of this problem. - After that, you haven't heard about it anymore. Unfortunately, the concerns that we liberals have raised in the transit agreement back then have confirmed. Unfortunately, our predictions have arrived. We said at the time that this transit agreement, which could not even be brought into the European Union, already included the forecast increase rates. No mention has been made of a limitation of transit traffic, but one has opened the doors for truck and passenger transit in Tyrol. Nothing has been seen from a strong representation of the interests of the population. Ladies and gentlemen! I too would like to address the problems of traffic in the eastern region, as did my colleague Martin Graf. It is of course important and necessary to provide assistance to the afflicted and oppressed population in the West, especially in Tyrol. But, Minister of Economic Affairs, we would really expect you to take action at last to address the serious transport problems in the eastern region. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] For, ladies and gentlemen: Although the figures of 30 000 cars per day, of 5 000 trucks per day are also on the Brenner motorway, the following figures are even more worrying, and the more rapid the action is to be taken according to these figures: Minister for Economic Affairs! Ladies and gentlemen! Here are the figures of the southeast tangents: 17 000 trucks per day! 17 000 trucks passing through densely built urban areas. 150,000 cars travel on the southeast tangent every day, even at peak times up to 180,000 cars! This averages 5.4 million vehicles per year. There are similar high numbers on the belt, similarly high on the West motorway. And no action will be taken against it. Unfortunately, there is no loud lobby behind it, there are no demonstrations yet, and therefore nothing happens. They have failed to take appropriate countermeasures in the past. Why, when the east opening was already foreseeable, has railway lines in the direction of Slovakia been dismantled? Why has one put billions of money into the expansion of the Westbahn, with the result that the journey time between Vienna and Salzburg is now 5 or 10 minutes longer than before? - These are not measures that are suitable to move people to change from car to rail. Ladies and gentlemen, especially from the People's Party! You are now in a coalition in Vienna, you set up the planning city council. Where are your concepts to finally create the unbundling of traffic flows from the planning process, Mr Lukesch? What is being done in order not to be built on the outskirts, without public transport connections, residential settlements? This is why people are forced to put themselves in the car and produce traffic jams! - These are the questions that are particularly relevant to the Eastern region and which you should finally address.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e7059	Mr Blünegger has also been mentioned on the floor. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e7078	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, As a Tyrolean Member of Parliament, Mr Lukesch, this urgent question really surprised me, because I have to say: This urgent request can only go into the pants or even go back. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: You must be for that!]] For, Mr Lukesch, this dual morale of the ÖVP delegates in this House, this dual nature is characterized by the following attitude: In the country of Tyrol one speaks differently than here as a Member, here one again brings different arguments and the government keeps the bar, although it has made the mistake that it has just done too little in the transit question. Mr. Lukesch! Skill Do you recall history in 1994, the time before the vote on EU accession when the transit agreement was presented? What did your country captain say before he entered the plane and flew to Vienna? What did he say then? - He has said that he will change this transit agreement in such a way that he is the best for the people, for Tyrol. - But not even an addition was changed when he came back! This is a fact, Mr Lukesch. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The EIA is really afraid to stick to the truth, because the EU contribution lie is threatening to collapse. I'd say, She's threatening to collapse. Because what did the transport speaker of the Tyrolean Freeman in the Tyrolean Landtag say? - "Unbearable delay tactic in the dispute about the Brenner-Maut." I quote Mr. Dr. Horst Wendling [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Who? What's his name?]] "It is the government alone. All decisions taken in the Landtag have been ignored at the federal level. But in the Tyrolean Landtag they were decided unanimously." - So's the traffic speaker Dr. Horst Wendling. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's it! A freeman! A party colleague from the Rosenstingl!]] Yes, of course, a liberal, but a good freedom. He said that. Today we are in a situation where we are faced with another possibility. It is certainly not possible for us liberals to see a reduction in the Brenner toll. For us the liberals are certainly not in question that there is an extension of the toll in the Unterinntal. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Schwimmer.]] Mr. Swimper! I have heard so much about you that I must say the following: I don't want to sit in this house as great a privilege knight as you are! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: Now we're on the Stadler line!]] But back to the subject. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen of the government coalition! Both, both the reduction of the Brenner toll and the expansion of the toll in the Tyrolean countryside, lead to disadvantages for the Tyrolean population and also to disadvantages for the economic location of Tyrol, Mr. Lukesch. This should be taken seriously here. The ÖVP is afraid of this truth, and her contribution lies do not want to admit it. It is certainly true that the government has misnegotiated from the point of view of us liberals. Because of the Tyrolean country elections, of course a small kneefall is practised in front of the EU, and I have already mentioned the government's double game. But we Tyrolean liberties will teach this to the people and tell them that we do not deceive them. She's doing the ÖVP!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e7182	Mrs Haller has also been mentioned. Rest of the speaking time of the liberal club: 3 minutes. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e7200	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! As the last speaker of our party, I would like to sum up briefly: An ÖVP member, a university professor from Tyrol - and it really surprises me that he is here for it! -, sends a urgent request to his own minister. A speaker of the ÖVP, the Transport Speaker, comments on this and gives a speech he could have given in the same text twelve years ago. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The other government party, which is just as guilty of debakel as the ÖVP, also reports a speaker. But with regard to the real problems we have in Tyrol with the transit agreement, there is zero solution. Of course, we are already faced with the question of why we ask this question. It must be an alibi treatment, as well as many things that the EIA does in order to divert from its own double strategy and from failure. Or do you really lack the basis for talking to the Minister within your own party?- Oh, my God! Or did you actually want to put this question to Mr Verkehrsminister? - Then it would have liked it. That is why I shall also put forward a motion for a resolution on this subject. In conclusion, however, I would like to point out that it was free Members who, from this speaker's point of view, drew attention to the imminent development of transit in 1987 and who also presented an extensive package of solutions at that time. Or: In 1991, in the country of Tyrol, there was a memorandum of the Tyrolean Freedoms, in which we proposed solutions to an effective transit agreement. Where was the ÖVP? What did the ÖVP do? - it has converted one to and for itself the right solution as it was the transit contract into a toothless instrument, or has agreed to such an instrument. And it was this ÖVP, which is sitting here today, which ultimately sold Tyrol and the Tyroleans to the EU. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I do not want to address the comments made by Weingartner at all. What Weingartner does is, in my opinion, bordering on something very unbeautiful. If I didn't stand here, I would really call it hypocrisy. If action is then taken to calm the population, such as the introduction of a higher nocturnal toll, but then no other approach is introduced, although one knows that this will not be kept before the EU, then I must ask: How far has this transport policy of the EIA brought us? - Apparently the left doesn't know what the rights are doing, but that seems to be the system in the ÖVP. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I'll bring...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e7262	Mrs. Colleague! Please submit the application quickly in the last sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e7277	I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Then you might better know to whom you should send an inquiry next time.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e7325	This has probably been a long conclusion. The motion for a resolution which has just been read has been properly tabled, is supported accordingly and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker was Mr Wabl. Still speaking time of the green club: 7 minutes. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e7350	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The situation in Tyrol is such a disaster that, obviously, all of us here in this House feel that this is a very dramatic development and that it must be dealt with. Ladies and gentlemen and Professor Lukesch! I ask you: Who are the opponents? [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: The EU Commission!]] Yes, of course, the EU! Now we've found the opponent. That's exactly your policy. At last, the ÖVP, which has always pleaded for the large-scale solutions, has found an opponent. Now that it appears opportun, where it fits into its populist concept, now it is suddenly the EU. I thought you were negotiating with the EU! You have negotiated the transit agreement, but you have concluded the agreements! You knew what you signed, Professor Lukesch! Ladies and gentlemen! But I want something completely different. We have had to learn bitterly in Tyrol, which means that the official policy that Wallnöfer preached at the time is: "Traffic is life. The roads are the veins of a society, and they need to be laid wide and beautiful so that traffic can flow well." But, Mr Luke, you are not willing to learn from this mistake! Because we see in the Styria, in the Ennstal, where there is also a transit problem, which answers you find there. That is why I would like to remind you of a quote from the Council of State for Nature Conservation: Landesrat für Naturschutz! - read out what he thinks about the transit traffic problem. "State councillor Dr. Gerhard Hirschmann points out to the honourable Member Wabl that the Always avoid speaking only in Sunday's speeches that mobility is one of the greatest achievements of mankind. The fact that people think so is documented by the car purchases day after day. Therefore, it is only a matter of Sunday sayings and twofolding when you speak of traffic avoidance." - Hirschmann, the original quote in 1998. To speak of traffic avoidance is therefore exclusively Sunday sayings and double practices! And here's what it says: "So you don't even reach that even one car is bought and driven less." - And then the solution of Mr Hirschmann - I quote - follows: "That's why for the Ennstal..." - Mr Kröll, you should be aware of this so that you know what you're going to have here in ten years and how you're going to bet against the EU again when in the Endstal Valley the four-track roads you're planning now are no longer enough! I quote: "That's why a portable solution for all transit traffic had to be found for the Ennstal. And the transit problem could be solved" - and now the real opponents are there, ladies and gentlemen! - "if the Greens were willing to allow the implementation of the appropriate structural measures." - End of the quote. Ladies and gentlemen! This is the world picture of the ÖVP! We could solve the transit problems if the Greens allowed the structural measures. Mr Zweytick! Mr Maitz! It's not just last-class, it's worse. You certainly know the beautiful saying: "A donkey only goes on ice once." On the other hand, you go twice, three times, four times on the ice, and if you break in, you shout: The EU is to blame, the evil ones in Brussels! We are now complaining, and then we can stand and say - Mr Farnleitner will certainly say this - that: We have done everything, but unfortunately we have been forced by the European Court of Justice to take these measures back again. - It's last-class. With your negligent policy, you support transit-terrorism. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: The Greens are the eternal preventers!]] Mr Maitz, Mr Kröll, Mr Zweytick, Mr Khol, Mr Lukesch! That's exactly your kind of policy. You know very well that the transit problem cannot be solved by structural measures in the Innstal, even in the way you propose it. 'Cause there's the next mayor who says: Please, the Ennstrasse is not enough. We need to build a four-track road. - Mr. Kröll! They have been involved in this kind of transport policy, and you insist that the mistakes made in Tyrol are remedied. [[Abg. Kröll: They say the untruth!]] Mr Kröll! If you still do not understand in 1998 that more roads mean more traffic, then, honourable Member Kröll, you should simply withdraw from the political stage of transport policy and at last say that you are not able to solve this problem. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kröll.]] Mr Kröll! Yes, it was in Tyrol. And the bishop was elected over and over again. Mr. Landeshuptmann Wallnöfer was elected again and again with his beautiful plans, with the plans of the highways through the country of Tyrol. There have been majorities over and over again. But today, 1998, Mr Kröll, you should learn from these mistakes! And you should consider who your true opponents are. You still think your opponents are the Greens. You think the greens are the preventions of correct transit solutions. That's the perfidy, that's last-class! Mr Kröll! You should really refrain from making such requests. This is a declaration of bankruptcy of your transport policy. The Khol would've brought it together better!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e7429	Mr Platter. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e7447	Mr. Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In the case of the individual Members' speeches, I think, we must say something from the point of view of the EIA. Ladies and gentlemen! What the liberals have allowed themselves to do in this urgent question today was undoubtedly immense! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You put them!]] Dear Member of the Meischberger! Do you even know who is responsible for transport in the country of Tyrol? Who is responsible for transport there? - The liberal councillor Dr. Lugger! [[Call to the liberals: Winemen!]] You always forget that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Dear Member of the Meischberger! You are constantly criticizing the head of state Weingartner, who is really interested in solving the transit problem, who remains hard, but the Free Transport Council cannot be seen at all! When it becomes brilliant, the Free State Council is constantly under cover. This is the policy of the liberals! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Dear Member of the Meischberger! Your idea was embarrassing, your idea was immense. [[Abg. Haller: Excellent it was!]] You can see how seriously you are taking the concerns of the Tyrolean population! Mrs Haller, ladies and gentlemen! What do you think bad about Mr. Dr. Lukesch asking the Minister a urgent question? I am convinced that this urgent request was extremely necessary. They are about party-political change, but not about solving the problems. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intercession with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! On the two Green motions for resolutions. Mrs Langthaler, ladies and gentlemen! We assume that we will not lose the complaint. The behaviour of Commissioner Kinnock is undoubtedly not understandable to me. You can't deal with us like that! But even now, in the event that one may lose the claim, it would be a premature surrender. We're not there. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: Then it might be too late!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! On your motion for a resolution concerning the extension of the design of the Brennerbahn to Kufstein: The Minister has already said that an Austrian solution is planned here. A separate solution for Tyrol is not imaginable. We Tyroleans don't make us bad! [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] And now to the liberals. Mrs Schaffenrath is no longer in the hall. She speaks of things that she either does not understand or does not want to understand. She says incredible things. It claims that in Tyrol traffic is not properly controlled on the transit route. Do you know that Tyrol is a leader in this regard? In Tyrol a great deal of control is being carried out, and some even believe that too much control is being exercised. So, Mrs Schaffenrath, you really have no idea. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to highlight our position on the Brenner toll: First: The existing high tolls are justified. Secondly, It cannot be that a Member State is being misplaced as a non-member country. Thirdly, The revenue from the Brenner toll shall be made available for the railway structure. Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion, I would like to put the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Minister! I would ask you, together with Mr Wendelin Weingartner, to maintain this line so that the interests of our burdened people are preserved.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e7585	In addition, Mr. Federal Minister Dr. Farnleitner. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e7603	Mr President. High house! As the officials of my department, the Ministry of Transport and the Federal Chancellor's Office have to deal with the response to the complaint very thoroughly in the next few days, today's discussion - if I may personally see it - has been quite helpful in many things for what we will have to discuss with the Commission in the next few weeks. Because the Commission has clearly sent signals towards compromise - clearly! - before this strategy is virtually collapsed in an unusual co-incidence of statements by a Bavarian transport minister and a day later the imposition of complaints. - First point. Second point: It's unusual: The EU does not charge us with a certain amount of money, but it charges us with the current illegality of establishing a toll on the basis of a directive which has been repealed by the Court of Justice itself. Third point: There is a similar conviction in France in a matter of toll, not at the level of an amount but of illegality. France has replaced the costs and has not responded - and the EU has not responded. And with this knowledge, should we now take it into consideration to give in unilaterally and trigger this very discussion, which was often the case? Fourth point: At the same time, there is a new directive debate in the EU, in which the Alpine Corridor is under discussion and in which the current toll height would be accepted for the entire route. And I would ask you, Mrs Langthaler, not to give me lectures on EU strategies: The EU should also know what is happening in its area slowly. And the last point that is interesting in this context: We do not want Switzerland to get bad conditions. We want to have the same conditions as Switzerland, because that would drastically reduce detour traffic. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] - Switzerland does not conduct accession negotiations, young man. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: No, we! Austria!]] And a final remark: I have pointed to the need for infrastructure construction measures in Eastern Austria, with exactly those figures that have been presented here today by FPÖ Members in the western Länder. I deblocked the B 301 and we operate the environmental compatibility procedure against all protests. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] We have deblocked in Vienna that the North-East span is once planned and released. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Edler.]] We discuss the generous circle of Vienna - Tulln - Vienna. Therefore, please: This government is in no way sparse in terms of a transport concept to the East! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e7662	Thank you very much, Minister of State. No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to some votes. I therefore ask the ladies and gentlemen to take their respective place. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. Langthaler and comrades concerning the introduction of a truck night-time ban on the Brenner and Inntal motorway. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. - This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ing. Langthaler and comrades concerning "Maut-stretching". In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. - This is the minority. Rejected. [[Calls and calls between individual Members.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We are not in any debate, we are in a voting procedure, and there should be as few calls as possible. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ing. Meschberger and comrades concerning Brenner-Maut. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. - This is done by the minority. Rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ing. Meschberger and comrades on the creation of a single transport ministry. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. - This is the minority. Rejected. Finally, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dipl.-Vw. Dr. Lukesch, DDr. Deweisers and comrades concerning Brenner-Maut. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. - This is the majority. Accepted. (E 136.) That concludes the voting procedure. I note that the next meeting of the National Council will be convened immediately after this meeting. The agenda for this next meeting is to be found in the written communication distributed at the meeting room. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Objections!]] Amendments to the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e7738	Mr Kostelka and Dr. Khol have made written objections to Mr Hiezu, according to which the agenda for the 137. Meeting on the report of the Committee on Health on Amendment 802/A by Dr Leiner and Comrades on a Federal Act amending the Pharmacopoeia Act. Mr Stadler's objections were also raised in written form, namely: The National Council wants to decide: The following shall be added to the agenda for 137. Agenda items scheduled for the National Council will be negotiated as TOP 1 to 6. The remaining items on the agenda are given a corresponding new designation, namely as follows: 1.) Government template: The Federal Act amending the Criminal Code, the Criminal Procedures Act, the Banking Act and the Insurance Supervision Act (Strasbourg Change Act 1998) (1230 of the Supplements) 2.) Report of the Federal Minister for Justice on the protection of our children, based on the resolution of the National Council of 19 December 1988. September 1996 (III-74 of the Supplements) 3.) Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Dr. Heide Schmidt and comrades concerning a federal law amending the Criminal Code (329/A) 4.) Motion for a resolution by Mr Magnette. Johann Ewald Stadler and comrades on the comprehensive protection of children (464/A) (E) 5.) Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Dr. Heide Schmidt and comrades concerning a federal law with which the Criminal Code, BGBl. 1974/60, amended, BGBl. 1997/I 12 (667/A) 6.) Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Schweitzer, Dr. Krüger, Ing. Meischberger and comrades concerning a federal law amending the Criminal Code 1974 (336/A) In accordance with § 50, five representatives of a club, namely the liberal, requested separate debate of these applications. This desire should therefore be accepted. In accordance with Article 50 of the Rules of Procedure, I do not support these objections so that the National Council has to decide. I have already said that a separate debate must be held, and in the two debates held in accordance with § 50 of the Rules of Procedure, I limit speaking time per speaker to 5 minutes and the number of speakers per club to three. We shall now proceed to the first debate. Mr Klubobmann, Dr. Kostelka, has been spoken. - Please, Mr. Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e7806	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection has today completed a proposal in the morning. This House wants to work, and no one, including the Group of the Party of European Socialists, will be unable to do so. I therefore request that the report by the Committee on Health on Amendment 802/A on the Pharmacies Act be put on the agenda as item 23. The fact that I have to explain this in a debate of my own, we all owe to the abusive and arbitrary interpretation of the Rules of Procedure by the Freemans.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e7851	Mr Pumberger has also spoken in favour of this first debate. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e7869	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Today we have called a health committee very surprisingly at 8.30 p.m. and I, as the chairman of the Health Committee, have agreed to this, and this is also possible, because a long debated and very important issue, namely medical care and also the supply of medicinal products in the country, should finally be introduced to a satisfactory regime. [[Call the SPÖ: Who called him?]] We must say that a committee meeting really took place at the last minute, and I would like to thank Mr Rasinger, as I have already done in the Committee, for having made the effort to bring about a further arrangement in this respect, although this regulation, as presented by the Committee on Health and Consumer Affairs, has not complied with the intentions of the FPÖ. We liberals have always stated that the VGH recognition is to be recognized and that the liberalisation of the pharmacy branch was clearly and clearly expressed by the VGH. But we have also said that there should not be any risk of the supply of medicinal products to the rural population, because this includes many details. Mr Guggenberger scratches his nose. - Body language clearly expresses your feelings, Mr. Guggenberger. You have also had concerns and agreed to this solution with abdominal pain, although you have had abdominal pains for very different reasons than I have, for example, for 17 years I myself have been working on a house apothecary and know that in a remote rural community where there is no public transport, chronic illness and social weakness depend on getting the medicine as soon as possible with the doctor. [[Ironic calls of astonishment at the SPÖ]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is important that a regulation be made to ensure that the supply of medicinal products is as comfortable and easy as before. If Mr Leiner has said in committee that the last best solution has been reached today, I would like to reply: the best solution in the run-up. And today's solution was only because of the fact that a connex was made with the crowns of teeth, because the ÖVP - Mr. Feurstein - did not shake your head, it was so! - said: If the dental ambulatorys are now allowed to make dental crowns - something that the SPÖ does not want, however, the ÖVP - then we have to look out for something, then you can settle the house pharmacies question in the sense of the ÖVP. - That's why there was a Husch-Fuch rule in the last minute. Already weeks ago, exactly on the eve of the action day of the Chamber of Doctors, the ÖVP submitted a request in which it requested: Until the doctor's retirement, the house apotheke may be maintained even at the opening of a public pharmacy. Then she cut down disks for slices after salamitactics: first up to 15 years, then up to 10 years, and finally a proposal came from the SPÖ that only house pharmacies would be in question up to a turnover of 1 million schilling. That was really not a thoughtful solution. And I would also like to criticize the following, because it is always stated to seek consensus: They have left tooth crowns free, for example, for trade unions. The chambers wanted to involve you, but under the authority of the union. At the same time, you have always asked the doctor's chamber and the pharmacist's chamber to the same extent. A very quick solution was adopted yesterday, and today the Health Committee met. And now I have learned that the representatives of the Pharmacies Chamber have no longer been involved in the discussions that took place yesterday. I think this is a procedure that cannot be accepted. I would like to say to the public that medical care must be maintained in rural areas, where it is possible and necessary, through the medical home pharmacies. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Gartlehner.]] I am also in favour of extending the time limit if it would be constitutionally possible, even until the doctor's retirement. But all of this had to be negotiated much more. It's still time for conversations in summer. There is no need to deal with applications already made during the summer. In autumn, we will have a healthy basis for a new legal regime. Until then, we can wait. That is why we do not necessarily have to put this item on the agenda today. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e7919	Mrs Povysil is also speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e7937	Mr President. High house! Mr Kostelka, I am pleased that you stress in your speech that this House wants to work. I think that's what we all want. It's nice to see you stress this so extra. We all want to work, but we don't want to produce sham solutions under pressure and in shortest time. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Call the SPÖ:Where is the shark?]] We don't want any sham solutions that don't actually have a right, but are just there to bring a political deal over the rounds quickly, namely the political deal "Zähnkronen versus Hausapotheken". The one professional group, which is not so large in numbers but still relatively important from reputation, we quickly give a political sugar, and the other we allow to carry out their medical ideology. These are decisions that you actually did not want to make. They have not been met either, because we have not agreed on liberalisation. They have simply been pushed to the long bank for another ten years, they have been pushed out, so that no really good political solution has been reached. No thought has been given to the patients either. Because what about the bedridden patients? What about the real-life patients? What about those who have many children? - For them, it is a massive difficulty - and I am referring in particular to the representatives of Social Democracy - to have to take their medicines from a pharmacy in the future. How is that supposed to go in your opinion? What's that supposed to be? - Now the doctor can come to them and bring them all the medications. Ladies and gentlemen! We're all interested in work. We are all interested in working in this House, but not under pressure and not when it comes to whipping through laws with sham solutions that do not correspond to our kind of policy.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e7975	Mr Dr Kier has also been mentioned on the floor. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e7993	Mr President. High house! The question of whether Parliament can make the point that a health committee, which is more than short-term, is taking place today at 8.30 p.m. and that an agenda which has already been supplemented on and on its own, which has been relatively steep, is all in all, then one more point is added, which is lacking in urgency and which would have to be excluded from the time-limit. I believe that this goes beyond the limits of the future. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum, as well as on representatives of the Greens and the Liberals.]] The fact that this Committee meeting has been held needs to be discussed separately because of the way in which the members of the Committee were asked to do so. That's what I'm leaving on the outside. But if even the chairman of the Committee goes here today and has to say that he felt that the Committee meeting should take place, and if he says in his self-poverty as a doctor that this should not be finally decided today... [[Abg. May. Guggenberger: Because what is decided here is not enough for him!]] Mr Guggenberger! I do not wish to hold a contentious debate here, unlike the previous speakers, because I believe that a debate on the subject should not concern itself with the matter, but rather with the procedure, with the question of what is the matter today. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I therefore did not assess content, but only stated the following: If even the chairman of the Committee is of the opinion that the matter of the delay is in need - although the Committee has taken its decisions so that the Committee's report itself is established - then it will be possible to negotiate it only in autumn. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Why did he even call?]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: To delay!]] I think it is a necessary step for Parliament's self-sanitary hygiene not to deal with this point today. [[Abg. Nuremberger: I already have a different opinion!]] I think that's essential. For if it is a question of you having to comply with any agreement - I think it is possible - then you have already fulfilled these agreements by the Committee meeting. It is now only a matter of whether the plenary also decides. If you are concerned that perhaps you will no longer have a majority in favour of the Committee's report in September, then you will have to put it on the agenda today. But if you believe that in September you will still have a majority who accept the Committee's report, you will not be able to do so until September. Because I do not agree with the fact that it is only the lobbyist doctors that are doing so today, I do not accept such a border within the framework of the Rules of Procedure. But he's possible, I'll let you know. [[Abg. Dr Fischer: With your approval, the Committee has been called up early for today, and now you are against it!]] Mr President. I am pleased that you have decided on interlocutory calls. You know very well that the fact that you are taking part in a committee does not mean that you will also give up the delay. You know that very well. [[Abg. Dr Fischer: You were willing to make a committee on a plenary day! You said: Today at 8.30 a.m.]] That's not automatically connected to it. I told you: The way in which and by whom Members were informed is a special chapter that I do not want to discuss here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] I therefore do not think it unfair if I insist on compliance with the time-limit. [[Abg. Dr Fischer: Only one committee day and then criticize that!]] That's what I'm instituting, and I think it's fair. [[Abg. Mr Fischer: If you had been aware of this at the end of the committee meeting, you would not have had the problem!]] Mr President. This will no longer make us very inclined to have the previous Council acting in agreement with committee meetings. Believe me, that won't do it anymore! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Because if you hold the minority of the house... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] Mr. Schieder! You're bothering me when I talk. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] If you hold the minority of the House that, if she has said A, she must say, too, B, I think that this is a little too far. [[Abg. Dr. Fischer: I'm just asking for logic!]] Then you should refer to the Uzancen and, once again, to the Rules of Procedure. We don't play this ping pong! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e8189	Mr Magistrate has also been reported to speak. Chief. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e8207	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I think that my previous speaker has already described today's procedure very impressively. The Health Committee was not involved in the negotiations for the preparation of matter with any single meeting. An amendment and a amendment to the amendment proposal were the substrate without consideration. The decision-making was made possible by the opposition by acquitting today, surprisingly with telegrams for early morning hours, an appropriate meeting to discuss in the substance. The only crucial question which I have raised - why we now have a ten-year period and not the 15 years which the Constitutional Court has allowed - and why we have not done what the pharmacists wanted, namely, no transitional period at all, today in the appropriate form - was the lapidar sentence. "This is a compromise" and blessed with the associated nick. Mr Kostelka! What you want to do here today is not to circumvent the Rules of Procedure - it is also not a misuse of the Rules of Procedure by the opposition - but it is nothing but the attempt of you, of the government parties, here a junk animation which has been carried out in advance of the decision-making on the back of Parliament, on the back of the credibility of Parliament, under attack of the time-limit and also under reference to the time-limit for assessment. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It should also be said to the public: The substance is a law that will have an impact in 2008. Mr Kostelka! In 2008 this law will then lead to the closure of house pharmacies, and those who today apply for pharmacies on the basis of the Constitutional Court decision - such as two advertisers in my community, in Spittal an der Drau - will have a review procedure of the community, a review procedure of the pharmacies board, a review procedure of interest groups, the representatives of the party position of the patients, the existing pharmacies and the home pharmacies doctors. You know that, in the course of the Austrian term of office of the district authorities, half a year will be a good deadline until each opinion is received, and a three-quarters of the year to a year is still an excellent deadline. Because I also have knowledge of decisions that the district authorities still did not like after three years. Mr Kostelka! Now that you want to introduce us, it is under pressure of time, that must be today, because otherwise there are major failures and delays, and the opposition is inconvenient? - Mr. Kostelka! I'll tell you one thing: They were reluctant to work on the part of the government! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Yes!]] You did not involve the opposition in the negotiations in good time. They have called up the opposition again and again in both the Committee on Social Affairs and the Committee on Health and Health and then have it returned home without negotiating in the substance. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] Now - and I should also like to say this to you, Mrs Mertel - you have not even given the President's approval that the colleague can call the committee, because this must be done unanimously. There you have blocked, and now you want to pull the chairman out! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mrs Mertel! This is more than just a word to avoid using a different word that might bring me a call for order. Mr Kostelka! I can only say one thing in the substance: What you are planning today is simply and simply a misuse of this Parliament in the interest of the altar of the related materials that the great coalition has dealt with each other. Here, dental crown regulation, as house apothecary regulation, and so proceeds with the junkimization of apples and pears minter. The joyful originals' of the great coalition's first character - from 1945 to 1966 - clearly begin to function again. Here things on the back of Parliament, on the back of the interest groups, are yanked and whipped on the back of the patients. Obviously you don't even have the confidence to each other that if you give each other an approval for autumn today, you will also comply with it. That is the declaration of bankruptcy of handshake quality within the government parties!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e8266	Mr Klubobmann, Dr. Khol, has also been reported on the floor. - Please, Mr. Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e8284	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The People's Party is without reservation behind this request - it is signed by me - by Mr Kostelka because we stand for the house pharmacies because we want to ensure the provision of rural areas, valleys and villages where there is no public pharmacy with house pharmacies. And we thank those who lead house pharmacies. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Why did the law have to be passed before the summer? - It's very easy. On the basis of the findings of the Constitutional Court, an automatic procedure has occurred, which, according to a public pharmacy, must close the house pharmacies in a certain area. There are currently more than 50 applications for the establishment of public pharmacies. Mrs. Hostasch is under the obligation of administrative procedural law so that these matters can be decided in September. It must then allow public pharmacies where 13 or more house pharmacies must close. But we do not want that, but we want the house pharmacies to continue for a certain period of time, because the doctors also have a right to trust protection. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to say one thing very clearly: I would like to thank Mr Pumberger for having called the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection, as he has known how important this is. I would like to thank the political groups - the Greens, the Liberals, the People's Party and the Social Democrats - that they also know beyond the theatre donor, who is being held here, how important the house pharmacies are for the provision of rural areas, and that they have had this committee today in the early days. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr Kier! I would like to tell you one more thing, because that distinguishes us from you: We support the social partners, we are looking for consensus, even if it is laborious. But you dare the conflict!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e8336	No one has been reported in the word anymore. That is why this first objection debate is closed. We shall now come to the second objection debate. It concerns the objection of Mr Mag. Stadler. Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé spoke. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e8365	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We have already held an objection debate today at the first session. In this, you have made a number of assumptions about why we want a change in the agenda, according to which the issue of child abuse before the social package comes up. You have accused us of misusing the Rules of Procedure because we want to amend the agenda. That's always the case, you could keep the same speeches on it all the time: Whenever the liberals express any opinion that is different from those you support, it is said that we are committing abuse. I've always heard before, depending on the political camp: You are consterned that you are shocked that you are affected - only because we consider something more important than you do. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel:... as the Rosenstingl!]] I say having "against better knowledge" It expresses these assumptions because you know from many of our actions in Parliament that combating child abuse is very important to us. [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: How should we know?]] You know this from many speeches of debate, many requests and many responses to questions, and also from our Committee opinions you know that the fight against child abuse is extremely important to us. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Why do you delay it like that?]] That obviously bothers you! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They come with really unfounded precepts. You are annoyed that we would like to delay the debate on Rosenstingl. [[Ironic no-run at SPÖ and ÖVP.]] That's really not true. This assumption is absolutely unfounded. [[Ah-Rufe at SPÖ and ÖVP.]] On the matter of Rosenstingl, it is to be said that we have reached a very clear solution in this respect, when we have seen that we have deceived ourselves in the Rosenstingl House. [[Complaints with the liberals]] [[new Ah-Rufe at SPÖ and ÖVP]] When we learned about his manipulations, we immediately drew consequences, ladies and gentlemen, dear. [[Abg. Müller: November!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Unlike you. We are separate from Members who are suspicious of a criminal conduct. This is not the case with you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: What about the Meischberger? He's sentenced in the first instance!]] [[Further calls.]] If something like this happens in your rows - we've already experienced x-times - then it's walled, then it's covered, then there's no consequences. This is the great difference between you and us, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: That you are not ashamed! Shame!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] We have again applied for this objection debate and raised objections because we have believed that you will at last become more reasonable. [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] We have believed that you see that the public has a real interest in the debate on child abuse. You have to bear in mind that the parliamentary meetings are public meetings. [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: We forced you to speak!]] And by starting this debate for midnight or later, you are taking the opportunity of the people to participate in it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But that's probably part of your plan. Because what you're presenting here today is really just a reflection. You have not attacked the really big things to combat child abuse. You have once again proved that you are not serious enough on this issue and that you really do not want to have any serious consequences, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That is why we wanted to prefer the debate so that the public can once convince themselves of your true attitude.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e8569	Mr Klubobmann, Dr. Kostelka, was also mentioned. - Please, Mr. Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e8588	Mr President. High house! Mrs Partik-Pablé! It is understandable that the Commissioner Meischberger did not give you any applause in your speech. He has already been sentenced in the first instance, and you have not in any way adopted by him - and by a number of others - in any way. That's double-beddedness! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: But blame us! Shame! A judge!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I can save myself from addressing the complaining double-bedded morals in your argumentation. I am now only giving you a small example of how to act in a liberal way, and thus the proof that you are acting differently than you really think. If someone is interested in the homepage of the Freedom Party, then he has a number of possibilities. [[The speaker holds a large-format sheet of paper on which an Internet title page with the heading "FPÖ" is shown.]] This includes, among other things, continuing to trade among the individual national organizations, such as Vienna and the Federal Government or Burgundy. [[The speaker shows a sheet of paper with the appropriate internet page.]] High house! We are particularly interested in the Freedom Party Oberpulendorf. [[Abg. Kiss: Oh!]] So we're taking up the Freedom Party Oberpüllendorf and there are various ways of looking at this one or the other. [[The speaker shows another sheet of paper.]] We are interested - because we can't imagine anything - in "IBIZA-Online" for a specific link. In this context, we have the possibility between Spanish, English and German. [[Abg. May. Stadler: International!]] Because we are with the Freedom Party, we choose "German" of course. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You can't read the other one!]] There we have the choice between "Immobilien", "Booten" or, for example, "Eating and drinking". [[The speaker shows the appropriate sheet of paper.]] It is a bit strange that such transactions are dealt with freely. But be it. FPÖ and private shops - as we know - have a certain tradition. But what we want to look at is nightlife. [[The speaker holds a sheet with the title "VIP'P" in height.]] Ladies and gentlemen! So we're going to the area of "Nightlife", and what's showing us in moving shape here are four smelmünder. Schmolmünder, who smoke the following: In a cozy, informal atmosphere you will find your dream companion. [[Cheerfulness with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Here you will experience the most beautiful moments on this magical island. - It's also being breathed. We'll follow you wherever you want and make sure you're an unforgettable adventure. Let us spoil you! [[Cheerfulness with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Then comes the only political statement: Choose us! [[Cheerfulness and applause with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] If you go on, you have the choice. Ladies and gentlemen! At least in this lasciative and libidinous context, you can't really blame the liberals: Nationality: Polish, Nationality: Czech. In this context, they at least show a corresponding willingness to respond to international understanding. This is a reality of freedom, ladies and gentlemen. [[The speaker shows a sheet of paper on which two photographs are pictured, showing the heads of two women who are heavily maimed.]] [[Live calls at SPÖ and ÖVP.]] That's double-beddedness, ladies and gentlemen! That's really how you act. They claim that fighting sexuality in its abusive forms is a concern to you. - That's your reality! [[On the pre-shown leaves, showing:]] You still have a lot to do to be able to deliver a credible opinion here at all.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e8732	Mrs Povysil is speaking on the next floor. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e8780	Mr President. High house! First, let me actually correct and relativize the dreams of Mr Kostelka, whom he brought us here, a little: We're not fighting sexuality. This is quite natural, Mr Deputies. [[Live calls at SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I would now like to say loud and clear - and I hope that this is in your heads or goes into your heads - that: Sexuality has nothing to do with sexual abuse, take note! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I only need to start with the beginning of my last speech today. [[Lasting lively calls at SPÖ and ÖVP.]] - Ladies and gentlemen! Please be quiet so I can talk properly! In my last speech, I said: Children have no priority. - That's it. This has remained so, it has not changed. Children have no priority with you! Because today we stand here and debate the value of dental crown ideology versus sexual abuse. What is more valuable? What's more important? What is the theme that affects people these days, the crowns of teeth or sexual abuse?
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e8828	Ladies and gentlemen! I'm asking for a little more peace. Finally, we have a meeting in front of us today. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e8850	Healthy peripheral themes are being whipped up, ladies and gentlemen: the dental crown ideology, the house pharmacies! As far as health policy really is concerned and what will really be reformed is not addressed at all - no, this is even prevented: Let us just take the entire settled and outpatient area, where absolutely nothing is done at all! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But on the subject of abuse, on the subject of abuse, none of you will tire of deficient rhetoric that this matter is important to him and that people are valuable to him. Even Mrs. Dr. Petrovic, whom I very much appreciate in her argument, has today shown a clear derailment in her rhetoric. It has compared sexual abuse with the rudeness or the impossible behaviour of Mr Rumpold, who has attacked his counterpart - let us call it so - on masculinity. An impossible behaviour of this gentleman, no question at all - but where is the connex with sexual abuse, where, ladies and gentlemen? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Smolle: It is about credibility, Mrs Colleague!]] [[Further calls.]] There is this grölen from your ranks - I really have to call it grölen - when we talk about sexual acts that obviously excite you all very much, but in sexual abuse you will be silent, then look away! [[Abg. Smolle: It is about your credibility in the question!]] You're not doing anything, you're just talking bubblingly about your dreams! [[Abg. Smoking call: Mrs. Povysil! Is that normal with you?]] [[Further calls at SPÖ and ÖVP.]] It's a hypocrisy like that! Show your appreciation of this topic! Show them by changing the agenda here and now and saying: The sexual abuse, the sexual abuse of children, this issue is really worth us. [[Abg. Smolle: End with populism!]] Deputies! You can't put populism in my mind on this question at all! [[Abg. Smolle: Work on serious topics!]] [[Further calls.]] I have absolutely every day to do with these children. So stop putting up with me populism here! That's a bad thing. These kids don't scream, they're quiet! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Discuss our 31-point catalogue on this topic, which really contains all the accompanying measures! But if my opinion is not important to you, please note the following: More than 200 000 signatures have been collected by the people we have presented to you today. Don't you take the population important? - It's a guest here, a self-affected person who's been involved in all this, whereas You're arguing and grueling here. Don't you take this woman important? [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: You abused them!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] [[Further calls.]] I'll tell you one thing: Give everyone you are here finally to the people the value they deserve!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e9002	It is reported as the next Mrs. Dr. Petrovic. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e9020	Mr President. High house! I am glad that we are perhaps getting a little closer to the core of this debate on political climate and political responsibility in the context of this debate on objection. As Mrs Povysil, on the other hand, has taken note of the fact that there has always been a mix between allowed, wanted, incriminated sexuality, pornography, child abuse, abuse of dependency and perhaps also the question of articulation in the context of art and culture, I would like to ask you, Mrs Primaria: Who brought the mixture into this house? I remember very well a very not very high urgent request made by you and in which exactly this mixture has been cultivated. It is precisely this mixture that has taken place because it has encountered the abuse of dependency, a fog around pornography of every kind, and then the notary attack on the freedom of art and culture in a colorful collection surium. It was your urgent request regarding child abuse, which then implied that all persons, institutions and organizations that have anything to do with pornography or are disseminating it should be turned off. That would have happened at the time, as has been said, in particular to the Freedom Party of Lower Austria. Considered in retrospect, it would have been a great blessing to turn back to the fanfare at the time, because that might have minimized the damage. But you were the ones who have been conscious and - I say so - with political motivation repeatedly sought these ball horns and twists by throwing all that - pornography, child abuse, the alleged promotion of the government for an art that would not bother you and which you would prefer to forbid - into a pot. [[Abg. May. Stadler: What is it? Mühl's name is the man!]] That's your style! If you are measured by these standards, please don't be so whitish and so wretched!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e9061	Ladies and gentlemen! The course of this second debate seems to me to take a direction which leads me to point out that it is an objection debate. I would like to take the impression at one or other speech that an item on the agenda of the second session which is still ahead of us today is being preceded. I would ask you to take this into account - without looking at the further list of speakers. Mrs Dr Schmidt is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e9088	I agree with the assessment of the President-in-Office of the Council. As you know, the Liberals are not concerned with an objection debate, and I also say that they are not concerned with the matter either, because they can prove nothing good with this kind of polemics. Mrs Povysil! I should like to make one of your statements from this speaker's point of view - and I am opposed to the insolence of your speech - that a woman in question is sitting in this room who, as you have literally said, participated in it, whereas we all polemized. This is the summit of insolence, insolence and insanity! You have lost any credibility in this matter for me!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e9115	There is now a speech by the honourable Member Mag. Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e9154	Mr President. High house! Mrs Schmidt could have spared her outrage. For you, Mrs Schmidt, as colleague Applebeck, have shown for the first time how abused children look, while preserving that such a thing is shown, because it is not taken care of. At that time, Mrs Schmidt was still a member of the liberal club! I am glad that you have left this club. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In view of your behaviour at the time, I would therefore be very self-critical in your place, Mrs Schmidt. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: But we don't show them like a trophy!]] But what Mr Kostelka has delivered today is probably the summit point! This shows that this man is not even able to be ashamed. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] You see, he's having fun, he's not ashamed at all. You have lost it, Mr. Collegue, to be ashamed of yourself! [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Is that an objection?]] Ladies and gentlemen! With an appeal to the lust of female representations - all female feminists have held back, have yet to knock on the thighs when they have seen some lascivious female representations - with an appeal to the pompery and to the tightness of one or another Member who has been pleased that he may at last look unsuspectingly to want to explain child pornography with such an appeal is disgraceful! You should be ashamed, Mr Kostelka! You should be ashamed because a father doesn't behave like that. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Whatever adult people look at, whatever adult people do with their sexuality, is, as long as it doesn't concern children, nothing like anything. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Karlsson.]] Take note if you are no longer able to be ashamed! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Petrovic spoke today of an attack on the freedom of art! That's a kid's muffin. [[The speaker shows posters with works by Otto Mühls.]] The most famous child-skin of Austria has done this, he has been sitting for years. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: objection debate!]] The victims have not been shown in museums. This has made one of Austria's most famous children's scarfs. Has this disturbed anyone of yours? - No one's bothered this! And you didn't think about the victims for five minutes. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Barmüller.]] You have not lost a single sentence of regret in all your speeches for the victims of Mr Mühl. No sentence so far! And you should be ashamed of it as a mother! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian People's Party, whose minister has published these things and opened exhibitions about them, whose Foreign Minister sponsored this exhibition, is now collecting signatures against child abuse. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Where is the objection?]] As I have already mentioned, Mrs Horngacher has made himself worthy of this, but today she is supporting her own group with a ridiculously urgent request, which was not even worth a full list of speakers in order to remove the issue of child abuse from the agenda. That is what I call - forgive me, Mrs Horngacher - hypocrisy, naked hypocrisy! I'd be ashamed of that! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Arbitrator: Pui! Take it back!]] I would also be ashamed if, at any level, there were free people surfing the Internet to see child pornography. It's not about prohibiting someone from looking at depictions of naked women or naked men. I don't care. But in the case of child pornography, sensitivity is recommended! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Karlsson.]] Mr Kostelka for the heart of female representations and to be eager to knock on the legs does not give evidence of sensitivity, Mr Kukacka. You should write that into the main book and not praise it! You should be ashamed of your coalition partner, that would be appropriate. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You should also be ashamed of your Minister, who will allow these pornographic representations - Mr Kostelka, you would call it Blasphemy. Excuse me, Mr. Khol! The Siamese twins are already being messed up! - blasphemous content is best given by a child shame in the public museums of this country. That's the real scandal! You are responsible for this scandal as a government party. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This government is proven to promote such things, not only Mr Mühl, but also Mr Allemann. - Her head of state has made sure that the piece of Ur's Allemann "Babyicker" could be performed in a public theatre! Her head of state in Upper Austria is responsible for this. Their government is responsible for the fact that in the year one of the Belgian processes, at the same time as the Dutch operations, where one-year-old children were almost killed - it has not yet been shown whether children were also killed - for sexual abuse...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e9315	To conclude, Mr President, or to put the final sentence to a close.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e9339	As you are no longer in a position to be ashamed, we have no hope that you will agree to our request for a revision of the agenda.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e9366	Ladies and gentlemen! I shall now briefly interrupt the sitting and ask the Members of this House to take me to the Bureau. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e9393	I'll start the interrupted session again. I have discussed with the Members of this House the point I have already made, and I would ask you once again to make a point, even in the sense of a normal parliamentaryism, in an objection debate, against the agenda in this case. We are now continuing on the speaker list. Mr Wabl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e9428	Mr President. We are not in favour of these objections by the Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Party, for a very simple reason: It has not been possible to make it plausible, ladies and gentlemen - I would like to say so kindly to you - to change the social conditions if you condone all the other political groups in a way that I will go even further, saying that they are actually for pornography and for child abuse. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's suspicious!]] The Federal Chancellor himself was accused by you of promoting child abuse. [[Abg. May. Stadler: We can prove that!]] [[Abg. Nürnberger: You have no evidence!]] Mr Stadler! If it were to be said that the EIA or SPÖ would like to suppress a debate in the House which is not yet available to the public, which will be silent, it would still be understandable. But all the newspapers are full of it, the debate is being held everywhere, and laws against it are passed. The headlines are clear and clear in the newspapers. Your attempt is obviously also clear and clear. What I have not yet fully understood is what causes people to talk about a subject in this way without interruption with such an emotion! [[Abg. May. Stadler: The Outrage!]] Mr Stadler! I assume the outrage is real. But at every event you stage in this hall in connection with child abuse, what causes you to continue to propagate Mr Mühl's work, which I think is a good one? [[Abg. May. Stadler: The cultural promotion of the government!]] There is no other person in this house who constantly presents these pictures and in this way! [[Abg. May. Stadler: Why make the museums available to him? Burgtheater, Museum of Applied Arts, Secession!]] Mr Stadler! If it is really so bad, then it is enough for these works to hang in a public museum. Why do you still have to stop in the high house in a way like the porn hunter... [[Abg. May. Stadler: Help stop it!]] [[Abg. Dr. Stippel: Advertise!]] Everyone already knows these pictures. But you bring these pictures again and again with visible pleasure - with disgusting pleasure of course, you are correctly opposed - and show the public and this house again and again what you are fighting against. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: It won't respond!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: As long as the mill is promoted, I will continue to do so!]] We know that, Mr Stadler, but your zeal and zeal are remarkable! I saw Mr Humer on TV and was surprised when this man suddenly wanted to go out in front of the camera, although there was no reason for that. [[Cheerfulness with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I am also always surprised with what severity You always show these posters that you and your group are constantly getting caught up in these posters. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: What do you want to say?]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Out of indignation! Because nothing happens!]] Mrs. Partik-Pablé! It is obvious that society is unisono outraged by these facts. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Not the Socialists! Not the People's Party!]] It is obvious that the public is constantly opposed. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Not this High House!]] There is no interest - neither from the Federal Government nor from any party in this House - in pornography. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: The Federal Chancellor has not even apologized for this!]] There are some Members within the FPÖ who are interested in pornography, but there are no interests of this House! You should take note of this! [[Congratulations on the Greens and on representatives of the SPÖ, the ÖVP and the Liberal Forum.]] Mr Stadler! Do you know what's so threatening about your strange legal position? - I'll take your excitement! [[Abg. May. Stadler: You are more embarrassing than the Kostelka!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: It's stupid what you say!]] But I don't take it from you anymore that this is about you. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Do you have children?]] - Deputies! I've got kids. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Nothing happens!]] If Mr Mühl had the intention of demasking a social state - which I do not accept; he has only demasked himself - then he has succeeded in the FPÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e9727	Mr Klubobmann is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. - Please, Mr. Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e9756	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to repeat what I said earlier this morning in this objection debate: No one in this house supports children's shame! On the contrary. All in this House, all political groups, are against these inhuman and repugnant crimes. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Who is responsible for the Burgtheater?]] We have a law in this House today that will punish all these crimes more than before. And that's right! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ as well as representatives of the Liberal Forum.]] I think I can speak in your name when I say that we have the deepest sympathy for all those who have been abused by child abuse and that we all want to do everything we can to ensure that such crimes are severely persecuted and that they are helped to the victims of such crimes. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ, the Liberal Forum and the Greens.]] I am not in favour of the objections to the agenda on behalf of my group, because we have clearly arranged our priorities, namely, that child abuses are natural criminal acts, and that we have... - If it occurred at midnight - it will not be so - then most of you, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, would be guilty of it with your present fibuster debates. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You can see that!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: At the end!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: At midnight!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Behind the tooth replacement!]] [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ, the Liberal Forum and the Greens.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Behind the dental crowns!]] I'm telling you now: We will be very reluctant in all debates so that the debate on the law on criminal law can be conducted at a reasonable time, i.e. at a time when we can still track what is happening in the House on television. In view of the fact that there is no actual correction in an objection debate, in the context of my speech, I would like to correct the claims made by Mr Stadler, who meant that the Federal Minister for Education has promoted the exhibition with these objectionable pictures. I have an official communication from the Federal Ministry of Education. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The Museum of Applied Art is the woman Gehrer!]] Because, Mr. Stadler, I know my cardboard house. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Petrovic.]] Mrs Gehrer said: "The exhibition with the Mühl image in the Vienna Secession was not supported by the BMuk. On the occasion of the 100th anniversary of the Secession, only the processing of the archives was funded. The BMUK does not support exhibition projects of the Secession due to the competence situation." Your speech, Mr Stadler, was, as in so many cases, not correct. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! All you want to do is to divert from your deep knitting into the scandal to the Causa Rosenstingl - according to the motto: Let's talk about something else! Your Mr. Haider, who has made two urgent requests against child abuse, has also shown clearly today what is important to him: not the children, but New York, the happy life in the States.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e9909	No one has been reported in the word anymore. That is why this second objection debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on both motions for resolutions. First of all, we are voting on the motion for a resolution by Mr Kostelka, Dr. Khol, on the addition of the 137 agenda. Meeting on the report of the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection 1381 of the Supplements. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. - This is the majority. The request was accepted. The agenda for the subsequent 137. Sitting of 23 May, subject to amendment 802/A. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Magnette. Stadler on the revision of the 137 agenda. Parliament resolution on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. - This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. The agenda should therefore remain unchanged. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e9967	I declare that in this session, self-employed requests were made for 845/A to 859/A (E). Questions 4717/J to 4787/J were also raised. Opinion on the absence of a Member
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00136_d7e9991	I would also like to point out that Members Rosenstingl did not appear at this meeting either. The next meeting will begin shortly. This meeting is closed.
