ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e2030	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to welcome you very warmly and ask you to take the places. I'll open the 116. Meeting of the National Council of this legislative period. I declare that, for today's session, Members Dr Graf, Haigermoser and Jung have been reported to be prevented. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e2064	The Federal Chancellor made a statement on a resolution by the President of the Federal Republic of Germany that Mr Wolfgang Schüssel was prevented from attending today's meeting and was represented by the Minister of State for Defence Dr. Fassleven. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e2085	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the written communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e2211	According to § 74a para. 2 before the entry into the agenda, the Rules of Procedure asked for urgent consideration of the self-employed amendment 748/A (E) tabled at the same time by Mr Scheibner and Mr Comrades concerning the opening of negotiations with the Contracting Parties to the North Atlantic Treaty on the accession of Austria to the NATO Treaty. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, this urgent request will be put to the debate at 3 p.m. Request for a brief debate on the reply to the question 3595/AB
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e2236	I would also like to say that there is a desire, in accordance with Rule 92 of the Rules of Procedure, to hold a brief debate on the reply to Question No 3675/J by Mr Morak on bribery in the mill process by the Federal Minister for Justice. In view of the call for urgent procedure for today's sitting, this brief debate will take place after the debate on the urgent request has been concluded. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e2260	As far as today's agenda is concerned, I would like to sum up points 1 and 2, 3 to 18 and 19 and 20 of the agenda. Is there any objection? - They're all happy with it, so we're going to do that. We are now going into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e2287	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the duration of the debates as follows: For Agenda items 1 and 2, a block speaking time of 4 was set 'Vienna hours' was envisaged, so that the following speaking times for this block arise: SPÖ 60 minutes, ÖVP 56 minutes, Free 52 minutes, Liberal Forum and Greens each 36 minutes. A further 6 "Vienna hours" were envisaged for the rest of the agenda. Of these, 90 minutes are on the SPÖ, 84 minutes on the ÖVP, 78 minutes on the Freedom and 54 minutes on the Liberal Forum and Greens. These proposals are to be found in the House. I am now asking whether there are objections to this proposal. - That's not the case. This means that these speaking times are unanimously decided. 1. Point Report of the Special Committee for the Preliminary Advice of Genetic Engineering (715/1111 of the Supplements) 2. Point Report and request of the Special Committee for the Preliminary Advice of the Human Genetics People's Desire concerning the draft federal law governing the Federal Law, working with genetically modified organisms, the release and placing on the market of genetically modified organisms and the application of gene analysis and gene therapy to humans (Generary Law - GTG), BGBl.No. 510/1994, amended (1112 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e2337	We now come to points 1 and 2 of the agenda, which are being negotiated together. Oral reporting is not required by anyone. That is why we are going into the debate. First of all, Mr Magistrate. Schweitzer. The clock is set to 12 minutes. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e2364	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Minister of State Prammer! Yesterday's press releases and also your statements on the show in the "ZiB 3" were that you represent the result of seven meetings of the Special Committee of Genetic Engineering People's Desire on Genocic People's Desire, namely the result achieved after the hearing with a total of 52 experts, as a good thing and even cheer. Mrs. Federal Minister! I do not understand why you, as a SPÖ minister, who at the time has made great hopes to the 1.2 million signatorys of the genetic engineering people's desire that the demands made in the popular desire are at least partially implemented, are delighted with this result, although none of the three demands has been implemented almost? I understand very well if it is the ÖVP when the ÖVP celebrates this result, as it was more or less remote from the pharmaceutical and genetic engineering industries. The chairman of the smoke-callat was nothing but a Marionette of Dr. Nikolaus Zacherl, who was represented as the top lobbyist in the genetic engineering industry in this committee and defined the line. [[Complaints with the liberals]] The ÖVP has done well to understand all that Zacherl has given it, has followed in contradiction with what the industry has set out. But why the SPÖ rejoices about it, which has repeatedly said: We may even be supporting a five-year release moratorium!, I do not understand. Mrs. Federal Minister! With this statement you will fall into the back of the subscribers of the genetic engineering folk desire, which you have made a lot of hope. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! How does the strict liability law, on which industry is still outraged today, look like? - The head of the Novartis complained yesterday about the serious consequences of this liability law. If you look at this law more precisely, it actually turns out to be a arrest law for the operators. My colleague, Mr Pumberger, has already referred to it as such. The Federal Ministry of Justice originally provided for a new system of compensation for environmental damage. However, this damage compensation for environmental damage for the first time was removed from the draft. This means that no one needs to be held liable for major environmental damage which can be caused by releases. Does such a sharp liability law look like? My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Furthermore, there is no liability for damage that occurs after the approval of a product, and therefore there is no liability for any long-term consequences. Does that look like a sharp liability law, Mr. Lukesch? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lukesch.]] In addition, the provision that the obligation to substitute includes the lost profit originally contained in the law was eliminated. Can you tell me, Mr Lukesch, why this provision, originally contained in the law, has been eliminated with regard to the lost profit? - This is an essential step back to the case law in force. This is not an intensification, but a evasion of liability laws, colleague Luke. - All of this is in the interests of the lobbyists in the genetic engineering industry. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The only - this must be said to the ÖVP farmers! - those farmers who will have to bear liability risks in the future will be those who will apply genetically modified products. That's what you have to tell the farmers outside! They have been left, so to speak, held to the undivided hand. This is the only liability obligation that is actually left in this liability law. The protection of the operator actually serves this liability law. Just as the liability issue is not adequately regulated, the position of the parties is not adequately regulated. For example, there is no party position in the event of the release of genetically modified animals, and there is only a very narrowed party position in the case of the release of plants - limited to the immediate neighbours, to the affected community and to the countryside. With these regulations, the environment, organic farming and the fine food shop of Europe, which you have so propagated, remain on the track. It is significant that, yesterday, the organic farmers close to the ÖVP have received a proposal for renewal, which includes: It is inconceivable for us that there should be no legal regulation against the use of genetic engineering in biological fields. We do not believe that we can be forced into a new technology that we reject! The organic farmers also said: We believe that wind and insects cannot be described as inevitable natural events and must therefore be included in liability! Against the organic farmers who are working in the interests of the Austrian small-structured farming industry, who really want to build the fine food shop in Austria, all that we want to make the law today is addressed. You have to explain this to the organic farmers! You are the representatives of the fine food shop! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Read this in the letter that your ÖVP farmers probably sent to you yesterday! If the People's Party and the "falling" SPÖ decide on these proposals today, there will also be food from the genetic laboratory, ladies and gentlemen in the future! This will not be comprehensively marked. Until the first releases, if this law is passed today, it will only take a few weeks. This means that in Austria there will be long-term experiments in nature without any technology impact assessment. You have rejected our request for a five-year moratorium. They don't want technology impact assessment. They want a long-term attempt which is not known how it will end up. They only build on the principle of hope, and you have finally only followed the path that the Gen-Lobby has prescribed for you. None of you can say whether the changes made and their effects that may exist are then also reparable. Nobody knows today. No one knows how the newly created organisms, whose genetic components and compounds can somehow develop, will then be controlled, Mr Leiner! You don't know, nobody knows. Who can give us the guarantee that a threat to genetic diversity is actually excluded by these attempts? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Leiner.]] Mr Leiner! As a pronounced genetic engineering advocate, can you describe all the secondary effects that will occur in 20, 30 years? Can you tell us what this will look like in 20 and 30 years? - Of course you can't. I am convinced that there are hypothetical risks which cannot be estimated at the time of change, because they are only born later. Of course there are these. You are not interested in how much the risk is. They are only doing the business of the profitable lobbyists - at the expense of the Austrian population! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Who then achieves the profit from the new legal situation? - You followed the genetic engineering lobby. - Who's at risk? - The entire Austrian population. The food buyer carries the risk. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Where is the patient?]] [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: The sick people!]] The profits have few, the risk is all. There may even be massive interventions in evolution; you have not discussed this in the committees at all. Complex systems can be changed in a sustainable way, and there has also been no discussion in the committees. The molecular clock can be adjusted and the committees did not discuss this either. I therefore say that genetic engineering advocates cannot and do not want to fully predict the risks. They're all about winning. All these open questions - uncertainties - should be enough reason to abandon this technology for at least as long as the consequences are not estimated. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, there is no need for genetically modified food. There's no need for it. We should like to make that clear and clear. The path should go exactly in the other direction. The principles of nutrition are not improved with genetic engineering, not secured, but more at risk in the long term. If Austria is to become the cold food shop of Europe, then natural production must be protected and must not be threatened as you do. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We Liberals represent the interests of the signatorys of the genetic engineering people's desire more than that of its protagonists, I can say at the end of the special committee set up for that purpose, because they have in the meantime even agreed to make only more minimum demands. We are for a free genetic engineering Austria as long as the risks are not affordable. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: You're out of genes!]] We want a free genetic engineering Austria, Mr. Lukesch! We have to represent the interests of the rural family farms, consumers and the coming generations. You represent the interests of Monsanto, you represent the interests of De Kalb and Du Pont, of AgrEvo and, as they are called - interests that are purely pecuniary, ladies and gentlemen! You want to open the market to these chemical companies, and thus you will give the genetic engineering lobby a power that will lead to ever greater dependency. All are made dependent: farmers and consumers. There's still a big risk. What's at the end? - At the end there is a huge market, dominated by a few. Those who have previously supplied food to the Austrian population are no longer able to keep up with it. This means the end of the fine food shop in Austria. However, the responsibility for this is borne by the ÖVP and the performance assistant SPÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e2474	Next speaker is Mrs Maria Rauch-Kallat. The clock is set to 12 minutes. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e2493	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! The decision on the report of the Special Committee on the Pre-consultation of Genetic Engineering and a comprehensive amendment to the Genetic Engineering Act, which deals both with the issue of releases and with those of liability, enables us today to take a very satisfactory outcome before you, which takes into account to a great extent the demands of the Signatories of the Genocal People's Desire. Let me just say something about the results. This amendment or application to the Genetic Engineering Act contains one of the strictest liability worldwide. With this liability system, we have ensured that all claims that may arise due to possible damage are fully covered, both in matters relating to the environment and in health. This makes Austria the world leader. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] At the same time, we have taken into account a demand for a comprehensive party position in the field of genetic engineering. If only the applicant had the right to be regarded as a party, it is now also the directly affected neighbor, both the property owner and an appropriate tenant. But it is also the local community, it is, if the property is located at the municipal border, the neighbouring community, and it is the respective federal state which now has a party position, which also ensures that the interests and rights of those concerned can be safeguarded. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Another requirement of the genetic engineering people's desire was an additional nomination in the scientific committees. There has also been a significant improvement in the legislation so far. We now have a transparent nomination procedure for the scientific committees, a public tender and a public evaluation by the Academy of Sciences, so that genetic critical scientists are also represented in the scientific committees. In addition, we have also transferred the role of the representative of the genetic engineering people's desire Professor Dr. Weish in the genetic engineering commission ex offo to the scientific committees with seat and voice, so that it is ensured that in these committees, where it concerns releases, the proponents of the genetic engineering people's desire are represented. In addition, this is also a demand for genetic engineering people's desire, we have dramatically increased the penalties for illegal releases, ranging from 50 000 S to 300 000 S. Ladies and gentlemen! In this way, I believe, we have been able to meet large-scale demands of the exponents and the signatorys of the genetic engineering people's desire, even if the exponents do not want to accept it. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that it is very important to note here that in seven months we have heard very serious negotiations on the genetic engineering people's desire for genetic engineering, that we have tried to communicate with the proponents of genetic engineering people from the beginning and to take all their wishes and demands into account, both in terms of the number of people's desire and the number of experts and the order of treatment. I very much regret that, despite our willingness to cooperate, the promoters have not always taken our outstretched hand and have been removed from the committee, which has led to the fact that they have not been present in substantial parts of the discussions and therefore have not been able to be consulted by us in part. Nevertheless, I believe that with this result we have also shown in terms of democracy policy that popular desire in this House is being taken seriously. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] However, the deliberations and the initiative put forward by three peoples' desires have shown that additional mechanisms should be introduced and needed in order to improve direct democracy in Austria. My group will therefore, after the Federal President's election, make an independent request for the improvement of the instruments of direct democracy, which will focus in particular on the fact that the opening procedures for popular desires can be carried out exclusively by citizens and not by political parties, and that the possibility of supporting the Federal Presidents with five signatures of national council members will be abolished and replaced by signatures of citizens, namely at least 6,000 citizens, and will also be concerned with facilitating the delivery of declarations of support. All of this will be submitted to my party in a corresponding request after the Federal President's election. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let me address some of the points that were important to us in the treatment of this genetic engineering popular desire. The demands are as follows: no food from the gene laboratory in Austria, no releases of genetically modified organisms in Austria and no patent on life. I think it is very important to say that the demand for "no food from the gene laboratory" implies that there is a belief that genetically modified foods must in any case be harmful to health. I believe it is very important to note that in Austria there is a very strict food law, which does not allow harmful foods to be placed on the market at all, and that this food law, of course, also applies to any genetically modified food. It is therefore essential to note that the citizen should be free to choose whether to choose a genetically modified food or a biological food. It is therefore very important that we have a comprehensive label - not in Austrian alone, because in a European market economy this will have little meaning - and that we carry out a Europe-wide clear label for consumers, ensuring that the consumer is free to choose and make his decision on his own and is not forced to take genetically modified foods. The second requirement was: no release of genetically modified organisms in Austria. It was important for us not to decouple Austria from scientific research. This is a very essential provision or decision - because Austria cannot operate worldwide alone, so to speak, cannot remain the "island of the Blessed". Furthermore, it cannot be assumed that Austrian researchers may have to go abroad to conduct research. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Novotny.]] It was therefore very important to us to note that there can only be releases under clear conditions. These are: Security of party status, liability security, but also clear framework conditions for businesses and businesses, a legal certainty necessary to maintain the economic location of Austria in order to have the security for businesses that they can stay in Austria and thus also to maintain jobs in Austria. My party confesses itself to this, and it is not embarrassing for us, even if this writes a representative or a lobbyist of Greenpeace today in the "standard". We from the EIA are committed to maintaining jobs. That is, I believe, what the Austrians can expect. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I have yet to make an amendment to the Genetic Engineering Act, which amends the amendment tabled by Mrs Rauch-Kallat, Mr Gradwelt and Mr Colleagues, to the report and request of the Special Committee on the Preliminary Advice of Genetic Engineering (1112 of the Supplements) on the draft federal law, which regulates the Federal Law, working with genetically modified organisms, the release and placing on the market of genetically modified organisms and the application of gene analysis and gene therapy to humans. On the basis of the scale, I would like to ask the President for the distribution of this amendment. The key points of the application are as follows: In spite of its scope, it primarily serves to correct editorial failures; it essentially provides for a regulatory authorisation for several members of the Federal Government to ensure safety information on the subsequent risks of products with GMOs; it regulates the exchange of scientific committees by the end of October 1998; it lays down new provisions for entry into force corresponding to the contents; it brings about a better combination of the Party's position with the EU requirements to complete the procedure in 80 days; and it finally achieves a vote on the right of nomination of the Austrian Academy of Sciences with the organisation provisions of the Austrian Academy of Sciences. Ladies and gentlemen! Let me take a brief look at the future. We will continue to focus on dialogue, but above all on information and information on this issue. I am convinced that environmental organisations cannot escape dialogue with the informed and critical citizen, whose donations they also depend on in their existence, without risking losing their credibility. With the results of the Committee, we in Austria have strict and worldwide unique rules for genetic research and development. After a long and intensive discussion, we have reached a point that represents a balance of interests between the ecological interests, the concerns and fears of the citizens and the legitimate interests of the Austrian economy that secures jobs. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to thank all those who have contributed to this committee, above all my colleague, Mr Gradwelt, who, in a very cooperative way, has gone the chosen path. However, I would also like to thank all the experts, both the employees of the political groups and the colleagues of the political groups, but also the officials in the ministries and the ministers themselves very much. I think that we can be quite satisfied with the result achieved.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e2619	The amendment tabled by Mr Rauch-Kallat, Mr Gradwelt and Mr Comrades is now before us. He is sufficiently supported. He has been explained in his key points, his written version will be distributed, and he is therefore under negotiation. The amendment reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e2912	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Barmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e2931	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Despite the fact that the Committee has actually held many meetings for a very long time, I do not share the view of Mrs Rauch-Kallat that we can be satisfied with the outcome. I believe that we will see this very soon, because a balance of interests that has been sought has not been achieved. Since we in this House are talking about genetic technology and the legal basis for genetic engineering in Austria, it has failed to allow a fair balance of interests - with the result that today we are just facing the situation that very many concerns and fears exist that no one believes that this technology is at risk, but that everyone is concerned that this is something that can escape us. This is because of the behaviour which is also set out in the Committee... [[Abg. Head: This is a question of faith!]] It is not a question of faith, Mr President-in-Office, but it is a question of plausibility, and I will address it in connection with the liability provisions. Then: If, as it is said, there are no risks, there would be no reason at all to introduce a strict liability regime. I do not understand why those representatives from the field of genetic technology, who say that is something that is good, that was something that brought many benefits to Austria, and there are no risks behind that, not also say: We also want a strict liability regime for this! If anything should ever happen from this context, then we will completely cover the resulting damage to the injured! - But it's not said, it's quite the opposite. You don't want liability rules. What is now being decided is also dead right from the outset. That's clear. It is therefore prolonged that the policy that has been being made in this House since 1992 and in fact does not achieve anything but - case to case, step by step - an escalation of the situation. Ladies and gentlemen! This has already been described on other occasions, it is a little more than ten years ago: Barbara Tuchman: "The folly of the rulers." In this context, she writes: "It is only by folly that one can only speak where there is inconspicuously a policy that is proven to be ineffective or that works directly against one's own goals. There is almost no need to see that the present study - this big one here - was "insured by the fact that we are meeting this problem in a step-by-step manner these days." - That's to be read on page 49. Ladies and gentlemen! It's the same thing. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Posch.]] Mr Posch! You'll see: What has been done in the Committee on Budgets will not lead to a satisfactory dialogue in Austria. Mr De Vries (PPE). — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank Mrs Rauch-Kallat for having worked very constructively in this respect. This has been done by others until the end of the committee. But when it became clear that in truth no real compromise would be desired, I too drew the consequences for myself and said: Then I will not attend the Committee until its end, but I will express my protest by leaving the Committee before the end of the last meeting. Mr Deputies, who has worked very constructively, has been so constructive that he has even highlighted Mr Bundeskanzler, who has made promises from this place in connection with a question from the Greens. He was the one who apparently opened the door to the fact that the Socialist Group has done something in this special genetic engineering committee, which is the opposite of what the Federal Chancellor has promised in this place. This will probably be still to be regulated internally. Mr Langthaler will also address this in this connection, I assume. Since that's going to be the case, I refuse to quote it. You will then hear that what the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany has promised with regard to the position of the party and the rules of liability has not been respected. Interestingly, this is already the second case. In the context of short side-step, there is also a statement by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany of the 2nd century with driving licences. February 1997, which he carried out on the mission "For business", which is that he wants to make it possible for driving licences to be made generally where it is best for those who want to make them, because he wants to allow competition. It already stood here twice in the House the driving licence law for negotiation. This promise of the Federal Chancellor has not been fulfilled twice. Obviously, the Federal Chancellor climate can say what he wants, his group in this House does not scratch at all. That's the problem you have. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] We have the problem, Mr Wabl, that the government groups do not take seriously their own chairmen and their own promises and that increasingly confidence in politics is lost. Not for nothing, Dr. Weish has already announced as a proponent of popular desire that an initiative "Direct Democracy" will be set up, because one is not only content with the genetic engineering people's desire, but also with the women's desire and also with the animal welfare popular desire and the treatment of the same here in the House. Ladies and gentlemen! The special committee has not succeeded in taking into account the concerns and fears expressed by popular desire, which have been expressed so clearly and so intrusively by over 1.2 million signatures. The special committee has failed to establish administrative procedures to ensure that there is a fair balance of interests. That's still on the track. Because it has remained on the track, the debate will not take place in the administrative procedures, but directly where a release takes place. Then it'll be called: The plants will be torn out! There will be sometime when once the little grasses have grown, the Sensenmann will go over it! Then we'll say: What is Austria for a peculiar country in which it is obvious that every further development is closed? - That's not true! It is true, rather, that it is simply not desirable by the government parties that a fair balance of interests should take place in an administrative procedure. This has also been seen in the discussion on the provision of scientific committees. What, ladies and gentlemen, is against the fact that the scientific committees, which are not other than consultative bodies, which take their decision by a majority, are not only to be sent to one, two, three critical persons - definitely by critical organizations, that is to say, to the organizations critical of genetic technology? What about allowing a minority vote there? [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: You can do that at any time, Mr. Colleague!]] That is not the case, Mr Deputies. The problem is that a single person is being delegated there - and still a person from the Austrian Academy of Sciences - and that one has excluded organizations that are definitely critical of genetic technology. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Novotny.]] This, Mr Novotny, is exactly the failure that must be blamed on this committee. You will see that it does not lead to a calming of the situation if you believe you can just drive over it and 1.2 million signatures do not need to scratch you. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I felt it was very positive that we discussed in the Committee on the proposal of the Federal Ministry of Justice concerning the rules of liability. Such a discussion has been held in the Committee and has subsequently led to a change in individual provisions in this draft. However, after this discussion had been held in committee - including with the representatives of the people's desire - there has been an § 27-GOG proposal from the government groups, which has essentially been removed from those positions which have clearly been felt by many as a common approach in the Committee. It is true that you are refusing a liability which is then permissible if a joint damage is caused by the genetically modified properties of an organism. There is no such liability in the new draft. There is only a liability if a damage occurs with the participation of other dangerous properties of a GMO. The fact that a damage is co-founded due to the genetically modified properties of an organism has been included in the first draft, but you have erased it from your request. There is no provision on the Product Liability Act, so it will only go until the placing on the market, Mr Lucisch. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: That's what's coming! This is already in Brussels!]] It is true, rather, that this is still contained in this draft, with the corresponding provisions of entry into force, and that it is not in that draft which you are presenting. That's the truth! It is also true that - as the genetic engineering law was passed in this House - you promised that there will be liability rules. It only took a popular desire with 1.2 million signatures to remind you of your promise, the You've just failed to fulfil it again. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] This is a process, ladies and gentlemen, with which you will not be sure to satisfy the situation - and there is an unsatisfied situation in Austria in the area of genetic engineering. In the context of the rules on liability, consider the case that several operators are responsible for this. While in the field of nuclear liability the SPÖ wants to have an impact on the economically potent companies behind it, according to the Genetics Act, only the operator is currently to be held liable. Now I ask you: What is easier than creating a GmbH that has no large capital and is then sent into bankruptcy if anything is going wrong? It is not possible to get through to the person behind it - at least not in accordance with the provisions you have submitted to the Committee. Although they want a corresponding liability in the nuclear field, not in the genetic engineering sector. If the result is that a damage has been caused by several parties, then the injured are not protected by the fact that there is a solid liability - that each of the perpetrators is liable for the whole damage - but then, if it can be proved, there is a liability. There is a very central problem, ladies and gentlemen. If a company is charged with all the damage and it turns out that this company is only responsible for a certain percentage of the damage and therefore only has to replace that percentage, then this leads to a cost-sharing of the procedure. But this cost sharing of the procedure will be difficult for the injured persons. Therefore, under this particular risk of cost sharing, which now exists in the case of a partial obsequence, no one will impose a liability charge on several causers, because a injured person, if he does not get through 100 percent with his claim, can still go against the damage he already has personally. It would have been fair to establish a solidar liability in the field of genetic engineering. This would be both a means of dealing with the injured person and a requirement for any genetic engineering undertaking in Austria. But you say there's nothing more passionate anyway. They say: On the one hand, we are not only very careful, but also the technology itself is not dangerous! - If it's not dangerous, it can't cause any damage. But if there can be no damage from it, then you can be very offensively liable for it. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on Green MEPs.]] But that is not what is planned! Therefore, there is still the concern and suspicion that genetic engineering is something quite blatantly dangerous. The fact that the grounds of liability against the first draft in your application under § 27 GOG have been extended to include the fact that it is still economically reasonable to reject an event, and not only if it is an event of force majeure, can only allow the reversing of the fact that it is also assumed by the representatives of the genetic engineering industry that something can happen that reaches the extent which can no longer be covered by a single company. I have now reached exactly that central point, which has actually led to this popular desire and that it has received 1.2 million signatures. This shows that exactly these fears were not taken into account in what has been done. Therefore, you will not be able to calm down the situation in this context. This will permanently harm the economic location of Austria and the positive properties of genetic technology in areas other than food production and agriculture more than it could ever have done if it had been a moderate implementation of popular desire. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, a few comments on the Committee's dealings. Mrs Rauch-Kallat rightly pointed out that the proponents of popular desire were once withdrawn during the Committee. I did not think this was useful either, but you did not say, Madame Rauch-Kallat, that at the meeting on 5 November, the Commission was not prepared to do so. It was at that meeting in December 1997, at which the Members of the government groups were not present at first, because during the ongoing negotiations the representatives of the government groups were sitting in Parliament's backrooms and negotiating motions for resolutions there, so they did not participate in the negotiations. From September 1997 to today, when the negotiations took place, it was enough time to do so outside the meetings. The dates were known, so it was possible. But there has obviously been no agreement among the government groups. That is why, because the government groups did not think it worth consulting in committee, but instead negotiated "soft" motions for resolutions which you then presented to the Committee, all the other participants in the Committee - including the experts - felt inclined. In view of the fact that the proponents of popular desire have left the committee after this behaviour had been set by the government groups, I think that it is at least unanimous. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Liberals are convinced that in the field of genetic engineering in Austria no conditions have been created to enable the successful development of genetic engineering in those areas in which it is useful. They have not taken into account in the results of this Special Committee the fears and concerns expressed in popular desire - and they are massive -. Administrative procedures still do not guarantee fair interests. This will also be seen with regard to all the provisions concerning the rights of the neighbours. For example, they have not been able to say that a neighbouring community has a party status in a procedure only if the land on which the release takes place is immediately adjacent. [[Abg. Smoking callat: I said!]] The following shall not be deleted either: Although the neighbours have a party position, it is, of course, quite different, namely: There is a freight road, there is a freight road, between it there are three fields, in the middle a release is made, the left and right fields also belong the same owner, then there are no other neighbours. This situation, however, is quite simply insufficient in relation to the possible impact, particularly in the environmental context. Since no balance of interest has been created by this Special Committee and by the Government parties, genetic technology and the legal bases remain on the agenda, the discussions continue to exist in the political life of Austria. As far as the genetic engineering sector is concerned, we have not done any good work in this Parliament. I also have to say critically that, unfortunately, the government groups have once again succeeded in persuading their heads - to the detriment of our country, to the detriment of this economic sector. I only hope that, after the next election, there will be a result that you will only have a majority with which you can no longer go through such a procedure. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e3053	The next speaker is Mr Deputie Gradwelt. The speaking time is set at 12 minutes. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e3071	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! High house! I do not wish to reply directly to the material arguments he has put forward, because otherwise I could not say what I have done for my speech. Just as much as that: I think it is very nice, but really not necessary, Mr Barmüller, that you are breaking my head over the internal problems I will have with my Federal Chancellor. I would like to emphasise the human note, but there is no need. If today, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the report and the request made by the Special Committee for the preliminary consultation of the genetic engineering people and then we are making our decision, it is also appropriate to consider the initial situation of the deliberations and developments in recent months. The constitution of the Special Committee took place at a time marked by a very intense and emotional public debate. This has led in some areas to a dramatic polarization between opinions pro and counter. This polarization was also reflected in the Committee and in the Committee's deliberations. The "Cish" was acceptable - a picture that I believe can best be illustrated by the encounter of fire and water. That's exactly what happened in the committee. The Committee's discussion - the consideration of the opportunities of this young technology on the one hand and its risks on the other - has led to controversial and very interesting discussions. Despite this background, despite the high level of emotionalisation and strong polarization, it was possible, in agreement with all five political groups and also with the proponents of the genetic engineering people's desire, to define a procedure which was divided into the main topics and also to decide unanimously on the course of the meetings. The main points agreed on - they have already been mentioned: no patent on life, no release of genetically modified organisms, the issues of liability rights relating to genetic engineering, the labelling and the demand for "no food from the gene laboratory" - were discussed in detail and I believe that they were also discussed very objectively in the Committee's deliberations. Despite the polarization that has already been mentioned, these debates - and this has also been confirmed by representatives of the opposition groups in press conferences - took place at a very high level. In addition, of course not only the Committee's deliberations themselves took place, but - I can only say this to my group - also very many discussions with pro- and counter-experts, where arguments have been balanced and subjects have been analysed in order to make decisions in the fastest way. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As far as the Committee's work is concerned, there are four aspects for me in addition to the objectives which I would like to look at more closely. First of all, I should like to make a few comments on the first aspect of democracy. In addition to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee unanimously decided not only to allow the representative of the Committee to participate and to participate in the Committee, but also in all cases three, in some cases even more, proponents of popular desire, to enable participation and thus the right of participation and participation in the legislative phase. The assessment of the fact that they have not always made use of it is not my responsibility, but this has not been pleasant and targeted for the discussion. But by linking instruments of direct democracy with those of representative democracy, we have achieved a result that I believe is forward-looking and therefore recommended for imitation. The second aspect I would like to mention is the legal one. On the basis of the results of the study commissioned by the Federal Minister for Women's Affairs and Consumer Protection, we had the opportunity in the Committee to take into account the national opportunities and scope we have in this area of justice. In addition, we have been able to benefit from those laws and legal instruments that serve the goal of achieving the objectives pursued. I believe that clear rules on the issue of liability, the position of parties and also on labelling are created - and on these points I clearly and clearly distinguish myself from my previous speaker. With the resolutions to be adopted and the findings made in the main committee on the Patents Directive, this committee has worked very objectively, legally and even in the context of EU law. A third aspect I would like to mention is economic policy. In view of the fact that biotechnology is presented worldwide as the technology of the future with the highest rates of capital growth and the highest opportunities for new, highly qualified jobs, we could not ignore this aspect in the discussions and, of course, also have the task of dealing responsibly with the security and maintenance of Austria's economic location. The fourth aspect, but even though it is in line with the conclusion, is not in any way the most important aspect for me is the research policy. The Committee's deliberations also succeeded not only in weakening Austria's research site, which is not the largest and the strongest, but also the most insignificant of Europe, but also in consulting and integrating the topics of university and teaching research, on the one hand, and economic and economic research on the other. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The Committee has succeeded in taking all these aspects into account and, despite the polarization mentioned earlier, the Committee's deliberations have shown that the desire to make an adjustment is quite feasible: The debate has taken place at a high level of subject matter. It was not the Committee's task, as perhaps some would have wished to express their fears, but I would say, in the light of the discussion currently taking place in Switzerland, that it is our duty to draw up guide rails; Guidelines for the protection of people, the environment and for improving legal certainty, guidelines and ethical concerns on this subject. We were concerned with achieving a balance of legal matter for researchers, users, producers and consumers. With the present § 27 proposal, which is a summary of the modification of the genetic engineering law on the one hand and the liability right in the genetic engineering field on the other, we have not only created an excellent legal matter, but also complied with and implemented the intentions of the Enqueste Commission. The area of liability will be completed with the regulations in the Product Liability Act, which were decided yesterday in the Council of Ministers and to be discussed here in the High House after the notification procedure, which cannot be decided today for legal reasons, but which are still to be adopted before the middle of this year, as it is said. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Let me also draw attention to the motions for resolutions which are today subject to this debate on the report of the Special Committee on Decision-making. It was said who won what victories. I shall also make clear briefly my opinion on this matter: I assume that a group that has been willing to take responsibility in this Republic must be quite prepared to make compromises - compromises that are viable and compromises that lead to the desired goal. However, I admit that my group would have presented itself and wished for a further solution in one part or another. Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to say thank you. I would like to thank, on behalf of the Socialist Group, Mr Wabl, all the experts who have been available to us in the Committee's deliberations, and whom we owe a correspondingly higher level of knowledge after these Committee deliberations. [[Abg. Wabl: Thank you!]] I would, however, particularly like to thank the Federal Minister for Women's Affairs and Consumer Protection and their employees - I am pleased that you are showing understanding of this, Mr Wabl - because it was greatly facilitated by the amendment to the Genetics Act, which she sent out for consideration in December of the previous year, and the opinions that had been received not only by this § 27 proposal to be adopted today, but it was also possible to implement this request within a short time because of the legal support of her department. [[Abg. Wabl: I understand!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In addition, in the context of the Committee's deliberations, regulations have already been adopted which have been in line with the intentions of the resolutions adopted. Thank you very much, Mrs. Federal Minister. However, I should also like to thank the Federal Minister for Justice and his staff because he has incorporated into this novel the opinions received in the review procedure on liability law. In addition, he - and I would particularly like to point out - had the opinion of the Committee of the Regions of 13 before the draft was sent out. In January of this year, the draft law. He has made it possible for the discussion to be more targeted, and he has also, with the support of his officials from his department, made it possible for this amendment to be presented in this form in accordance with § 27 today. I am also particularly grateful to him for having succeeded not only in complying with the deadline, but also before the deadline set by the National Council Decision of December of the previous year, he was able to have this legal matter under the cover of the law. Thank you very much for that too. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! After seven months of intensive deliberations, after seven committee meetings and two main committee meetings on genetic engineering, after consulting 55 experts and experts and the timely discussion and decision of clear legislation in the field of genetic engineering, it is no longer possible to say that we do not wish to deal with this matter or that we are not prepared to implement it. The compromise to be reached today, as I believe, is not a success for one or the other group, nor a success for a particular lobby, but it is through the law, so to speak, that legal certainty in the field of genetic engineering is created, the claims are secured and clear rules are created for research, for the economy, for science, for organic farmers, for workers and for consumers. Overall, this law is a success for Austria, and we can be proud of it.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e3126	Next speaker is Mrs Ing. Monika Langthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e3142	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! My two gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to begin with a quote from a philosopher, because I believe that it is not enough to focus solely on the legal aspects of science and here in concrete terms. I would particularly like to address this quote to my previous speaker, Mr Gradwelt, but also to all the other Members, especially those of the Socialist Party, who perhaps had their original programming in this direction. I would like to quote from the "Dialectic of Enlightenment" of Adorno. One of his essential quotations was and is: "Since ever, Enlightenment in the most progressive thought has pursued the goal of taking fear of the people and using them as lords, but the fully enlightened earth shines in the sign of triumphal evil." At the time, Adorno wrote this under the impression of fascists and National Socialism, but it still has up to date today - and especially when we are talking about risk technology. It can then reverse something if a methodology, an idea, or, like here, a technology is considered solely economic criteria of a small elite only on the point of usefulness, pragmatism. A technology that enables - and this creates all the emotions related to genetic engineering - that humans can finally become creators of everything, where it is not only more about creating new plant species, new species of animals, but, of course, where, in the last consequence, it is also about creating need-oriented people, such technology breaks through all taboos. And that is the essential reason why so many fears, legitimate emotions and so much concrete criticism are expressed in the debate on genetic engineering. We have discussed these questions in this broad sense in this House, namely in 1991 and 1992. There was a committee of inquiry, which dealt very comprehensively and in principle with the risks, the risks, but also with the opportunities of genetic technology. At the time, a five-party request, a survey Commission report, was adopted, which contained precisely these aspects. And it was also made clear at that time that the Greens and many environmentalists in this country clearly distinguish the use of genetic engineering in the field of medicine, in the field of research, from the specific application in the field of agriculture, in the field of food production and production. Shortly after the adoption of the five-party proposal in this House and following the decision of one of my very good Enquete Commission report, the then Minister of Health for Foreign Affairs presented a proposal for a law which had nothing to do with the one discussed in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. This proposal for a law was characterised solely by the short-term economic interests of a very small industry in this country, namely the genetic engineering industry, which, however, has incredible contacts, up to the highest levels of government. This genetic engineering industry has now been represented by representatives of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. This is, of course, about a lot of money, about very short-term dividends. At the time, these interests had reached 100 percent. In 1994, when the genetic engineering law in this House was passed with the majority of governments, the opposition has told you very clearly what will happen: There will be an escalation on this subject. If you are not ready, you have said in 1994 that the fears of taking into account the specific concerns - including many scientists - and an industry-only law that serves only a very small sector in industry will result in incredible conflicts in this country. It is precisely what we predicted during this debate at the time, 1994. Read the debate on this debate at the time! What was criticized? - The lack of transparency and the public has been criticized in this 1994 law. It has been criticised that scientific committees are exclusively occupied with genetic engineering advocates, that in the case of requests for releases and release attempts, there is no party position for people at all, that the interests of operators at all apply to public hearings and that all others must be heard but not taken into account at all. There were a number of concrete arguments, and there was the prognosis: If you do not take these fears into account, then there will be huge conflicts in concrete releases. - That's exactly what happened. At the time, the industry itself was kneeling. If the government really wanted genetic technology to develop in that country at the time, it has done exactly the opposite: To this day, there is no release request in this country that has been approved - thank God. But the reason for this is not that the environmentalists have done so much lobbying in recent months, but the reason for this is already in the 1994 decision-making process. You should have known that this law will all provoke, perhaps even those who are not 100 percent critical of this technique. You have seen what happened after this decision was taken: A popular desire has been initiated, supported by a broad platform: Catholic initiatives, organic farming initiatives and various environmental organisations, and this popular desire has been the most successful over-party popular desire in the history of this Republic. And now, Mrs. Rauch-Kallat comes to the speaker's desk and says: The concerns of these 1.27 million Signatories would be taken seriously. The concerns of the exponents were fulfilled - although they have been claiming the opposite for weeks. Mrs Rauch-Kallat ignores this, she still says that the concerns of the exponents would be taken seriously and fulfilled. And democracy policy was supposedly shown that this House is able to deal with popular desires. Indeed, if you, ladies and gentlemen, believe that people's desires are referred to a committee, a debate must be held, because this is what the Rules of Procedure require, but is still being discussed in the backroom - written by the genetic lobbyists alone, not even the members of the opposition are allowed to get information - and if you call such a procedure as a democratic policy and a progress compared to 1994, I really must say to you: We have a fundamentally different view of democratic debate and of parliamentarianism. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] This is not the way in which we imagine how to deal with concerns of 1.27 million people. You have, of course, formally invited the promoters to the committee. They could talk there, they could express their concerns there. But what was really done there? - Experts spoke, that was very interesting, and the whole thing could be summarized and published in a volume about different views on different subject areas. [[Abg. This is democracy!]] This is democracy, ladies and gentlemen, exactly, you understand this in democracy: We must go, let us raise our hands, let us say a bit of a thing that is not heard - but the real projects, the real decisions will not be discussed in the Committee. You sent us the actual legislative proposal one hour before the last committee meeting. We can still be glad that you did not give it to us directly in committee. You have never discussed with us substantially - neither with the opposition parties nor with the initiators of popular desire - the concrete legislative changes you did not want. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: But you don't!]] Dr. Zacherl has written it for you and other genetic engineering experts and lawyers from the various departments. This has never happened in the Committee, and this committee has never been able to deal specifically with the legislative amendments, which was not at all possible in a technical and factual manner. We have debated the various areas for almost a year: Release here and GMO-free food, yes or no? There, that was done. But when it comes to the substance, you want to stay under yourself, because you obviously fear that good and concrete proposals will be made by the initiators of popular desire and also by the representatives of the opposition parties. It is up to us - Mr Barmüller has already done this - that there is a balance of interests. We would be concerned that you really take the fears, the concerns of those who have signed the popular desire seriously. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You have shown by your procedure that this is not the case. You just went over all this, and even today you're doing this: They put in a motion for a amendment that we are only now facing. You have no interest in a balance of interests - not even here in this House! You don't care. And then you are still here to speak and complain - and this is what the crown is all about - that both the opposition parties and the initiators of popular desire have been removed from the committee. - Yeah, what else would we have had? Can you tell me that? What else could we have done if you did not inform us about concrete legislative changes if you did not discuss matters with the opposition parties and with the initiators, but only about pseudo hearings of different expert groups? Mr. Lukesch, you're shaking your head. You are so accustomed to being a Member of a majority party and a government party that you have no idea what it would be like to really involve opposition and initiators of popular desire in the discussions. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: You could have tabled amendments!]] Why are the initiators and the Greens removed from the Committee in December? - Because, while we were negotiating a motion for a resolution that originally came from the Social Democrats and agreed in broad areas with the views of Mrs Prammer and was far more comprehensive than what is to be decided here today, your expert Dr. Zacherl and some other representatives of the Ministries have worked on the specific provisions and have not at all given any information about them. This committee was a farce, and that is why, in December, both the initiators of popular desire and the Greens were withdrawn in order to demonstrate publicly that the concerns were not taken seriously that there should not be substantial negotiations here, that only foaming should be done here and then done as if democracy had really been fully served as if the concerns of the Signatories had been taken seriously. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] It wasn't. If you were really interested, we could have taken sufficient time in the Committee to discuss the specific legislative changes. We spent hours consulting experts, but then, when it was specifically about the law, it went up, back, and the opposition was no longer allowed to talk. What were the arguments, and which ones have come here today? - I'd like to talk to you about a few minutes. An argument that is particularly disturbing to me is that it will secure Austria's economic location, as is the job argument. So if you have not recognized one after the many hearings, I do not know what we are talking about here, namely that genetic technology, Mrs Rauch-Kallat, is undoubtedly a technology of rationalization. And the use of genetic engineering in agriculture, no matter how you stand, whether pro or counter, is of course something that contributes to rationalization and efficiency. Every reasonable thinking person cannot argue otherwise, for that is in the nature of the matter. So what do efficiency improvements and rationalizations mean? This means, of course, that more units are lost in agriculture, and that means, of course, that jobs in the field of agriculture are lost. We have repeatedly pointed out a study that comes from an economic institute that is unsuspecting of being against genetic engineering, namely from the Swiss Economic Institute Prognos in Basel. Prognos has clearly stated for the German Federal Government about genetic technology - I quote -: Under the rule, no jobs are sure to come out. A new job potential for Germany is currently not expected in the food sector. If one compares the number of jobs created by bio- and genetic engineering and how much would be superfluous, one finds that it would be a work destroyer under the line. - A job destroyer, Mrs. Rauch-Kallat! This is what Dr. Gerhard Becher, study author and vice director of Prognos AG says. We invited this study author to Austria and offered all the representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP to discuss with him. Although his study is on the table in writing, we have quoted it in committee, we have always been told that it is wrong, and we would only quote part of it. That's what we said: We bring the Lord here, and you are all invited to discuss with him. - Everybody was invited. Unfortunately, the SPÖ did not have a single Members' time, nor did the ÖVP have a single Members' time, she sent a staff. Representatives of the Industrial Union, with whom we have also been in contact, have spoken to this author, and they have at least allowed us to stop acting publicly with the workplace argument because they have seen in this discussion that this argument is simply wrong. Come anyway They come out here - and this is white populism - and say that this is a technology that creates jobs. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] No, she's not! This is a technology that destroys jobs and does not create jobs in the areas we are dealing with today, namely in the fields of agriculture and the food industry. The research aspect was also cited here. I think this is particularly good after the discussions in the Special Committee on Genetic Engineering. One thing has been clear in these discussions: that, because of the lack of research resources from the state, almost all professors, scientists in this country who are researching genetic engineering in various university institutes can only research with the resources of the genetic engineering industry, because public funds are not available for this. And the professors who research very often in the service of the genetic engineering industry, with whom they can only maintain their laboratories and their university institutes, will not discuss and argue against their bread-bearers, including in the committee. It has been shown that in Austria there is a fatal, a really fatal combination of genetic engineering scientists and genetic engineering users. And almost every scientist in Austria who works on university institutes is at the same time a genetic engineering user, attracts funds from the genetic engineering industry in order to maintain his research field. What would be necessary if we were to discuss research in this area is finally to increase the public funding for research. I am very much in favour of being researched here. Much more needs to be researched because it is a risk technology and because we do not know so much in this area. It is true that many things are still completely open, but we have many indications that the use of genetic engineering in agriculture in particular will have serious problems in the ecological field. We have seen from some studies and from research results mainly from abroad that there are risks - the Federal Environment Agency has done very good work as well as the Ministry of the Environment - that there are, of course, risk factors, but the increase of resources for research in the state There was no debate on the subject. If it is said today that the research site of Austria is a pleasure, I must say: I don't think so at all. One only reinforces the unfortunate synergies that exist between scientists in university institutes and the genetic engineering industry, one binds them even more together than before, and that certainly does not serve the cause. What exactly was the point of the changes? - The initiators of popular desire originally made three demands: no patent for life, no food from the gene laboratory and no releases. As these three demands, of course, all of them, cannot become law in this form, then minimum demands, and concrete demands in the Committee have been proposed. But none of these minimum requirements were fulfilled accordingly. In the area of citizens' participation, which is so important because you could in fact have made a balance of interest, you have failed to meet the minimum requirements. Yes, the parish, the federal state now have a party position, and this is a progress too early. But the need to make citizens' initiatives easy for individual citizens to get to the party position has not been taken into account. And it seems as if the mayors, who are mostly either of ÖVP or SPÖ, who can already somehow hold their hands, would be included in the process, but associations, citizens' initiatives would still be ignored. [[Abg. Kröll: You are a people's representative!]] It is precisely this that we should have taken care of when it comes to achieving a balance of interests and a conflict-free settlement of future procedures. The liability regime is completely inadequate. My previous speaker thanked the Minister of Justice for this; I must say, I do not know how serious he is. [[Abg. May. Main: The design was better than what happened!]] I would also like to thank him, but for his proposal, for he was very good and far more going than what is being decided here today. What we are going to do here today with regard to liability - and this is just one point that I would like to highlight - is that there is no substitute for loss of profit due to damage. And many experts say, many lawyers - and this is also the case in the Committee - that this is a step back in comparison with the case law in force: So far - in the normal civil procedure - damage that has arisen has been replaced. To protect sensitive areas: You always praise this in the press. A motion for a resolution is to be tabled today. If you really want to, why don't you decide?
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e3251	Please put to the conclusion, Mrs Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e3267	Mr President, I come to the conclusion. - You can sum up the following: It has not succeeded in finding a balance of interests, it has failed to take real account of the fears of the population. Today's result is a disappointment for all those who signed the popular desire a year ago
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e3294	Mrs. Mag now speaks. Prammer reported. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e3309	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! First of all, let me address some statements made by previous speakers. It was said both by Mrs Langthaler and by Mr Barmüller that negotiations were conducted under the exclusion of the opposition. I deeply regret that the opposition has left the Committee every time the discussion has taken place. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: Please!]] And especially at the last committee meeting, which was very committed to discussing the very specific and very specific matter of liability, the opposition was not there. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: On the day of the Committee we received the request! One hour before the committee.]] Mrs Langthaler! It was indeed a very exciting discussion, and I really - I say that out of full conviction - deeply regret that you have not been there and have not conducted this discussion, because the matter is indeed a very difficult one and because there have already been preconceptions. [[Abg. Hans Helmut Moser: It's about how you deal with the opposition!]] Only the Judicature will show how the liability provisions will be dealt with in the future. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: Mrs Minister, why then do you restrict the party position in this request?]] I know that Austria is entering the new country. There is nothing comparable in Europe, and we can be very, very proud that we have taken this step. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Whether he is the definition for all time and all the future, no one - no one here in the House, no one here on this government bank - can answer. At least I did not care for this absolute claim. Let me also say the following: They're talking about balance of interests. I think the results have achieved exactly the desired balance of interests. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: Why are you once again restricting the party position in contrast to what is stated in the report?]] I could have imagined something or other in some areas, but it was necessary to achieve a balance of interests: on the one hand, towards the population, to those who are concerned with skeptical, to see the risks, and on the other hand to those who work in the economy, in science and, on the other hand, to derive opportunities for themselves and for the population. I think it is a pity that we are discussing things that should be very positive here in such a negative mood. For me, it is an achievement if the municipalities and the countries are now to be partyed. Communities and countries will be granted rights on the one hand, but they will also have obligations. For the duty will be to carry responsibility and not just to demand from others. I also believe that it will be necessary to step up the dialogue with the people - by the way, a concern that was important to me from the very beginning. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: This is the minimum!]] I have always asked this about the economy, the scientists and scientists. They can't move back into a room without a window and operate their work there and come to the results. You have to face up to the dialogue with the population. Fear cannot be taken otherwise than with this dialogue. Above all, Mrs Langthaler has quoted it, as I give you a hundred percent right, people need information to be able to estimate what opportunities and what risks are actually in the first and in the second case. Austria - and I particularly, I have never left my way there - has voted for the individual case decision. And today I am very, very happy about it - the day is a coincidence which we have not been able to influence - that we, this little Austria with the exotic existence as regards genetic engineering, yesterday came through the Article 21 Committee on Import Prohibition for Genmais. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The ban on imports from Austria will continue to be maintained. The matter must be re-examined in the Council of Ministers in June. And we, Mr Bartenstein and I, will not stop our lobbying in the individual Member States, especially as regards this maize, because it is necessary to proceed differently. This corn actually has shortcomings to take seriously and are not so easy to wipe from the table. In other cases, you will probably come to quite different results and will gain quite different insights. This individual decision is an essential and important thing that has led Europe to think because it is necessary to act sensitively. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There is still a lot to be done at European level. And at European level - and I say this quite openly here - I would like to be a little more quick. As far as labelling is concerned, it would be necessary not only for consumers but also for the economy in particular to make rapid decisions. We have regulations, we have directives in place that cannot be implemented in de facto because the implementing rules are missing. And this is a state that will not be sustained. It will again be in Austria to produce appropriate pressure and to intensify the necessary contacts. I believe that this is also an essential signal towards the economy, because the economic representatives know that it is not good to have open questions and have found unsatisfying answers. Austria can in certain cases make a single entry, and Austria has shown, particularly as regards the ban on Genmais, that it makes sense to cooperate and contact the other Member States. I also believe that it is essential and interesting how the question of the labelling of additives will proceed. And I'm still saying... [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: That's decided for a long time now!]] That's not true, I can give you the last information. It is still the draft additive labelling regulation in Brussels, for a new notification, because, regrettably, on the Brussels side, the time limits and official periods have not been properly implemented. The Commission has given answers, but not specifically, to the request for notification. We'll see how the decision goes, because one thing is sure: Extensive labelling must be an actual comprehensive labelling. Austria will continue to promote that not only sub-products are identified so that we can really guarantee what we have promised people to choose. [[Abg. May. That's not what Farnleitner says! Why doesn't Farnleitner want to?]] This can and must not be dangerous to the economy! Why should the economy be afraid of that, where exactly those who use this technology are so convinced to do good and to provide good for the people? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The so-called positive marking, which is actually a negative marking, is also an Austrian first step at European level. We have consulted experts in a subcommittee of the Codex Commission or have been working there for a very long time on how to define and define genetic engineering freedom in Austria, but not only in Austria, but at the pan-European level in order to ensure application and implementation. And we have come to a conclusion, to a very constructive result, as I mean. The Commission in Brussels was very interested in this, and it will benefit from the work we have done in the Subcommittee. I will also make a number of events in the context of the EU Presidency to use this period to operate lobbying at European level. A very essential and very important thing is - I have already said it - the information. For this reason, I focused on information for consumers, citizens and consumers in 1998. And I will be very careful to see that there is balance here that everyone speaks. I have already had discussions, especially with environmental organisations: I want you to come with me. There will be events and information that will be run or given by one side or another. It will not always succeed in bringing both sides, the proponents and the opponents to a table as regards information work, but the objective must be to engage in dialogue that there is a debate so that the content argument can be discussed against the content argument. It is, of course, important for this dialogue with citizens that policy should provide the appropriate framework conditions, but no one should close it either. Above all, this information work must not close up the economy and science, for otherwise the population would have to accept and expect something secret and dangerous to happen. And I hope that will and will not be the case. This information and this discussion with the population has the economy, but above all science. Although, of course, in the sense of legislation and enforcement, policy in this country has to be held responsible, we will not be able to release economics and science from their responsibilities and will not be able to assume their responsibilities. And that is why I find it so welcome and positive that we will have a liability right. So you will not be able to withdraw from a once given permit, but even later something will be required if a damage has been caused in expectation - hopefully this will never be the case. I have always said that liability is the best and most intense prevention there is, because no one, no economic operator, no scientist, will take a risk if he or she knows that it will have consequences if negligently or possibly even grossly negligently acted. The work for me as a competent minister is certainly not finished, but it will continue today with a new beginning, with a very positive new beginning for me, because essential provisions which I have missed from the beginning are to be decided today and here. I believe that, with the parties' positions, with the opening and re-access of the scientific committees, with the rules of liability and with many others, the basis was actually created for us to face genetic engineering in the future in fairness, openness and above all in case by case, case in case. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e3461	The next speaker is Mr. Federal Minister Dr. Michalek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e3476	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In accordance with the order given to me by the National Council in December for the submission of liability arrangements under the Genetics Act until 15. On 4 April, I submitted a draft law, modified on the basis of the results of the assessment procedure on the draft ministry and taking into account further discussions at expert level, to speed up the project and to facilitate parliamentary procedures directly to Parliament. This legislative text has also been incorporated into today's proposal. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: What remains?]] We too, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, do not see the civil liability regulations relating to genetic engineering isolated in the field of the development and testing of GMOs. We are well aware that the risk potential of genetic engineering continues in the subsequent placing on the market of genetically engineered or modified products. This raises the question of which changes to the Product Liability Act governing this area are appropriate, but also possible in accordance with EU law. In its meeting yesterday, the Federal Government took note of my proposal for a Council of Ministers that, in the context of the amendments envisaged in the Product Liability Act, we would contact the European Commission in connection with the withdrawal of the liability of the so-called risk of development and would inform it of the changes already provided for in the draft assessment. Therefore, the decoupling of this part of the reform is not due, for example, to an unwillingness to adapt the Product Liability Act, but to the notification obligations of the Member States provided for in EU law. In this context, it is also important that, as a result of the so-called BSE scandal, a revision of the Product Liability Directive is currently being discussed in the European Parliament and in a Council Committee, according to which agricultural natural products should be subject to product liability without exception. I do not want to mention that the product liability directive still needs to be discussed in other areas, particularly in connection with the relatively short period of 10 years in the field of GMOs and in connection with the requirements for the proof of causality. We shall refer to this situation in an appropriate manner to the Commission, which is known to be the sole right of initiative in the first pillar. Now to the actual liability regulations in the genetic engineering law. Although the text in this regard in the self-employed application remains in some respects behind the assessment draft, the strict liability rules now provided for do not have to be compared across Europe and in particular go beyond the liability provisions laid down in the German Genetic Engineering Act. [[Abg. May. Stadler: How's America?]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: What about America?]] In particular, the liability of the amount is unlimited; all compensation claims and, in particular, the pain benefit are covered, and the relief provided for in the interest of the injured person is far more likely to be met by the person concerned than is the case in German law. I cannot understand many criticisms expressed here and in previous press releases of the liability rules contained in the self-employed application. In particular, there can be no reference to the fact that the arrangements provided for remain under applicable law or case law. Mrs Langthaler! If, for example, the lost profit is no longer expressly mentioned in the draft assessment, this does not, of course, mean that the neighbor concerned, the property owner, was not at all replaced by the lost profit in the context of a compensation claim. [[Abg. May. Stadler: But it's getting harder!]] However, it continues to take place, not on the basis of the Genetic Engineering Act, but, as before, on the basis of the general provisions of § 364a ABGB, which remain unaffected by the liability regulations. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: Yes, but why?]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: I'll tell you something about it!]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Your design was good!]] - I'm just saying that you can't say that there's no longer at all. There's still that. [[Abg. May. Stadler: It's harder to stop!]] In general, the question of compensation for lost profits from the point of view of the right of compensation is not of all practical importance, since the Supreme Court of Justice, which is generally regarded as a lost profit, nevertheless recognises very much as a positive damage. [[Calls of the Abg. Ing. Langthaler]] [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: Yes, right!]] That's all right! A significant progress in comparison to the applicable law is that the liability schemes now include environmental impairments, provided that the environmental damage is at the same time a material damage to the property concerned.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e3618	Minister! Will you allow Mrs Langthaler's interlocutory call? - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e3672	I am opposed to the statement that this text is a step back in relation to the current legal situation or case law. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: Not the legal situation, the case law!]] There is no change in the current legal situation or case law. I turned to different statements. That we had something else in the draft assessment was not my secret. [[Abg. May. Stadler: If you remained persistent, Minister, it would have been better!]] Persevering...! - Do you want more calls? [[Abg. May. Stadler: If you allow an interlocutory speech!]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Your draft has not remained much, Mr. Minister!]] The damaged property owner will be entitled to the costs of rehabilitation of environmental hazards even if they exceed the value of the property. The injured person may also demand the costs of remedying the environmental impairment, but he must actually use the money paid to him, which in particular serves to protect the environment, because it is not in the interest of the injured person, what he does with the compensation granted to him. According to the concept of the self-employed application, the courts should not decide on purely eco-damage. This innovation in relation to the draft assessment also has very good reasons. Some of the opinions received in the examination procedure - also very significant in the field of teaching - have shown that it would not only be difficult, but also certainly not unproblematic to include the obligation to substitute for purely eco-harmous damage in the general system of damages. This abolition of civil rights replacement of purely eco-damage is not a disadvantage for the affected environment, because the regulation of the reorganisation of such purely environmental damage is intended, above all, to be a much better management authority for this purpose. This solution, which is also in the well-understood interest of the neighbours concerned, also has the advantage that the decision to reorganise purely environmental disadvantages for the parties concerned is not linked to the inevitable risk of costs in the civil process. Two further remarkable innovations are the reliefs and claims for information provided in favour of the injured person. The injured person is thus provided with a practical tool which is quite appropriate to compensate for his lack of information and legal protection properly and efficiently. Ladies and gentlemen! I am of course aware that in the debate on genetic engineering, which has sometimes been very emotional, it is difficult to create generally accepted regulations in all respects. This also applies to liability under my competence as the Federal Minister for Justice, which - these are the extreme points - was rejected by some as completely inadequate and referred to by others as a threat to Austria's economic location. I believe that the future genetic engineering arrest takes account of the concerns and fears of the population expressed in the genetic engineering people's desire in its scope of application, namely the expansion and testing of GMOs. It is particularly vulnerable because of the rules on liability, the presumption of causality, the operator's obligation to provide information, and the obligation to provide cover, if I may say so, by considerably facilitating the achievement of compensation for damage and thereby also the intended preventive function. - Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e3749	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Bartenstein. - Please, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e3768	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mrs Prammer! Mr Michalek! As Minister for the Environment, I would like to speak in this genetic engineering debate, particularly because, at European level, at the Council of Environment Ministers, as Mrs Prammer has already said, I have had to represent in the last few years Austria's positions on genetic engineering issues essentially. In fact, it was a gratifying event that yesterday the so-called Article 21 Committee did not decide, as it was to be feared, that Austria could not maintain its ban on imports, as a block minority was established; a block minority which, of course, was also achieved through the operation and lobbying of Austria and the work of Mrs Prammer and me. We have achieved a step-by-step success, we have gained time, and we have achieved that in a few months - probably at the June Council meeting of Environment Ministers - this issue will again be discussed at the political level. However, I would also like to say to the House that, following the somewhat antique comitology-3a procedure, which is subject to this procedure, a unanimous decision by the Council against the Commission's proposal would be necessary - not just a block-minority but a unanimous decision by the Council of the Environment Ministers of the Member States of the European Union against the Commission - in order to continue to maintain the abolition of the ban on imports for Austria. This is certainly not to be expected, but until then we will try to achieve something at the political level, which may not be possible today. It was also a surprisingly positive decision-making last night, as I have already said. However, the fact that the European Member States will have to decide unanimously against the Commission in order to deal with its position in the future will no longer be subject to such antiquated procedures; this release directive, which I discussed, among other things, with the chairman of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection in the European Parliament, Kenneth D. Collins, will be discussed here in Vienna on Monday with the Commissioner responsible for the environment, Ritt Bjerregaard. Why? - Because during its second half of this year, Austria wishes to work on this Directive 90/220 in the Council. I intend to allow for a guidance debate on Directive 90/220 in the second half of the year. This new Directive 90/220 contains quite positive elements, apart from the fact that, as has already been said, the antiquated comitology-3a procedure is to be replaced by a more modern, more democratic procedure. There are provisions for a better labelling, for a future limited authorisation and for full information of the Member States - that is, we have already recognised points which we can recognise as positive, but some others will still be discussed, we are here in the middle of the discussion. Mrs Langthaler! This was a brief outlook on what is happening at European level, where Austria, as a small member country, has successfully raised its voice in the last two years and at least has been able to achieve partial success: Delaying the approval of the Genmaise of Ciba-Geigy, more recently Novartis, now at least delay in the maintenance of our ban on imports of this product, because we really believe that individual decisions are taken. We do not want flat-rate convictions, we do not want flat-rate import bans - that is not possible at all - but we have proved that we can achieve Austrian successes if we believe that a product should not be imported to Austria for good reason - because it is herbicidal, but especially because it is antibiotic-resistant - and we have proved that we can enforce at least to the extent described. Mrs Langthaler! I would also like to say to you, in recognition of the usual procedure of selectively quoting, that you will once again place an interlocutory appeal, which is sanctioned by the President: They have quoted Mr Becher's and Mr Schuppenhauer's prognostic study, and with two sentences they wanted to illustrate that in this order study for the German Ministry of Science on the chances of commercial biotechnology in Germany between 1996 and 2000, the two gentlemen considered that these opportunities were very small or negligible. But please read on, or let me do it for the sake of simplicity - I will not do as selectively as you do. In addition, let me quote the gentlemen who write in this study - and this does not fit in with your concept of the genetic engineering and biotechnology industry: boundless greed, rapid waste, rapid dividends; you have said from the honourable Member's mouth - that in the United States only 3 per cent of this industry is profitable today, 97 per cent are producing losses and only 10 to 15 per cent of the companies in this area have a chance of survival. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: This is not necessarily the case for this industry!]] - Please also tell me if you are talking about the fact that in this The area is to be quickly disbursed, dividends are to be corrected quickly! If you are talking about job opportunities, please also say what the gentlemen of Prognos are writing a few sentences. There it is literally said that the uncertainty in the assessment of future trends due to the innovation potential of biotechnology in the early phase of its development is still very high in companies. Market developments are not sufficiently verifiable and also market expectations as such. Mr Becher has been quoted in an issue of the APA - an original quote - that he believes that the work effects are de facto not yet projectable. But what Mr Becher says about Prognos after that is interesting! He says: The genetic engineering stands where the microelectronics stood in the fifties when the first transistors came. In addition, the European biotechnology of the American has been lagging behind for ten years. This amendment to the Genetics Act also includes some of the things that should prevent a hindrance, since I am quite sure that the honourable Member's view is that this is a technology for the future. [[Abg. May. Stadler: But they have a very strict product liability right!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: The Americans have the sharpest principle of cause in the world!]] What you will decide today is not only to worry and fear the Austrians - at least the attempt to do so - but also to create framework conditions that will enable the controlled development of research and the important industry in this area in Austria to continue in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I conclude, Mrs Langthaler, ladies and gentlemen of the House, with the estimate of the jobs which the gentlemen have made of prognostic and which is also in the right context. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: He was here! We talked to him!]] There are only 20 000 jobs in Germany today. The gentlemen appreciate that within the next four years - four years! - the number of jobs can be increased by 40 000 to 80 000, i.e. three to five times - within just four years! [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: But not in agriculture and food production...! You should know that as a chemist, Minister.]] - I would ask you to quote this in addition on the next occasion to complete your quote of the prognosis study. In addition, I fully endorse the comments made by my colleague Mr Prammer and my colleague, Mr Michalek. I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his speech.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e3861	Thank you, Minister of State. The next speaker was Mr. Dr. Lukesch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e3883	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! I have always suspected that Mrs Langthaler, in delicate situations, says only half the truth - to remain polite. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] I am all the more grateful to the Federal Minister for stressing the second part of the truth now. Mrs Langthaler! You quoted Adorno, I'm going to hold you a quote from another philosopher. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: If you sit in the glass house, don't throw stones!]] [[Further call-ins]] In a situation where the future seems uncertain, the worst of all counselors is the fear. - At this very level, however, the discussion has taken place in the public. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: Who is the fear of the jobs? – You do it all the time!]] But in fact this future, ladies and gentlemen, is only the repetition of a discussion process that has expired in other countries - in the USA, but also in other European countries - 10, 15 years ago and there - and this must be said today - different from in our countries, because with the precautionary principle we have intervened much more in genetic research and development than in other countries. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: Because you refused the discussion for five years!]] [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] I can say: We present today a result which takes very seriously the concerns of voters who have signed the popular desire. It has already been said - and has not been rejected by you by the opposition; nor by you, Mr Schweitzer. - that Austria is today the country which has the strictest rules and conditions in all countries of the world, as well as the broadest participation rights of the population in the fields of genetic engineering and biotechnology. There's no way to go, and you should recognize that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course, one can object that the demands of the operators of popular desire, as they have been formulated, have not been implemented 1:1. But I would like to say - and I quote from today's edition of the "Kronen-Zeitung" - that Mrs. Dr. Sima of "Global 2000" also meant that she was also clear that these demands had not been implemented 1:1. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If we had done so, we would have actually implemented the demands 1:1, especially the three essential demands, then we would have decoupled from one of the most promising branches of science, research, as well as economic application and implementation. That can't be our goal! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mrs Langthaler! Excuse me: As a Tyrolean, and next to you, the colleague Van der Bellen, who also has a lot to do with Tyrol, does not matter whether the company Biochemie in Kundl remains and produces 2 000 jobs in Tyrol or whether it migrates. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: A Tyrolean!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is the alternative that you simply deny! [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: No! That's your fright!]] This is where 2 000 high-quality jobs are concerned, resulting in about 8 000 people with families. They want to drive you out of our country! We're not going with that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am also pleased that the National Action Plan on Employment, as decided yesterday by the Federal Government and sent to Brussels, has also defined a future in terms of genetic engineering and biotechnology, which must be promoted in the interests of job development, job security and the competitiveness of our economy. In this respect, the Federal Government has set the right accents. However, in the discussion with the operators of popular desire, I had the impression on many detailed questions that they were not so much concerned with the implementation of individual demands, but rather with a fundamental, fundamental rejection of genetic engineering and biotechnology - as we have already experienced in 1994 when we passed a very clear, very transparent and stringent genetic engineering law. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: Exactly! Without citizen participation!]] Mrs Langthaler! You said something else today. You have said you want more genetic research, you want to promote in this area. I take note of the fact that you are not one of the fundamentalists on this issue. But it was as I said: for example, in the discussion on the EU's Biopatent Directive. When it turned out that a patent for life is not possible under this Biopatent Directive, the response of the operators of popular desire was as follows: We are also opposed to a patent which, in the course of commercial use, protects genetic engineering procedures and their application. Do you know what you're risking? - First, they risk the ceasefire of research and second, that they become a secret science where they still take place. The results would simply - because they are not patentable - no longer be patented and kept secret. This is not my view of scientific progress, which must be given to the public and always the responsibility. The same was also noted in the release discussion: In the case of applications for approval of release - this is an intentional release of genetically modified plants or micro-organisms from the closed system into the environment, provided that no authorisation has been granted for their placing on the market under the Genetic Engineering Act - the parties have introduced a multi-party procedure. I have made one of the conditions for the parties to demonstrate scientific competence in this field within the framework of the Scientific Committees. I believe that we have been able to ensure maximum pluridisciplinarity, but also scientific competence, through the new tendering conditions for these positions, and that is new. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to say: It is true that the findings of science have not always been used for the benefit of mankind. However, I contradict you, Mr Barmüller, if you think that we politicians in this area are a little helpless and that this will result in further discussions and uncertainties taking place. I believe that policy has taken a leading role, particularly in the field of the modification of the genetic engineering law, in the context of its legal possibilities to allow science, research and a reasonable application of genetic engineering, but also to control it accordingly. In this sense, the reason was the head of our actions.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e4029	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Stadler. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e4047	Mr President. High house! - Mr. Federal Minister Michalek! Allow me to avert a famous quote of late antiquities from the "consolation of philosophy" and say: If you had remained persistent, you would have remained a philosopher, Mr. Federal Minister! They have sent Parliament a completely correct draft based on our legal order, but we have not seen inventive reasons. We regret this, Minister of State! We regret that you have been forced into your knees by the ÖVP and a probably very powerful industrial lobby. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! You have, with what you have presented to Parliament as a modified draft with regard to product liability, gone far behind the existing legal rules on product liability. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Michalek.]] - But no, in the case of product liability, you have fallen behind the existing legal regime for product liability, in particular as regards the Lucrum-Cessans problem. They have fallen behind the existing rules and the existing judicial system, Mr. Federal Minister. That's unfortunate! You know exactly that this genetic engineering law will have to be applied by the courts in the future according to the Lex-posterior rule and according to the Lex-specialis rule, that this new law will overshadow the old standards and that it will be almost impossible for the affected citizen to come to his compensation. Ladies and gentlemen, that is unfortunate! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It also shows how powerful the companies are here. If, for example, the ceiling for compensation for damage is reached at 300 000 s, ladies and gentlemen, it is simply laughing. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: That's where the chickens laugh! It's a breach of justice!]] Do you know how much this is for a group? - There are corporate lords who are going to dinner around 300,000 s! And this is the ceiling for damages for the little man and for the citizen, ladies and gentlemen. That's unfortunate, that's disgraceful! The argument that the companies will then no longer remain in Austria that genetic engineering research will no longer take place in this context has the Federal Minister Bartenstein itself disproved. He spoke very correctly that America has ten years' advantage in the field of genetic engineering. Ladies and gentlemen! Do you know that America has one of the sharpest product liability rights in the world? - And yet... - An interlocutory speech, good. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: (lifting from the square) But now comes the conclusion!]] [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: How many damage replacement processes have been tried on genetic issues in the USA?! - Zero, zero-comma-josef!]] Professor! You have misinterpreted your interlocutory speech. Mr Bartenstein has said that ten years' advantage - and this despite the world's sharpest product liability right. This shows how little solid your own arguments are. Ladies and gentlemen! It's cynicism that speaks of you. You probably need a genetic engineering Chernobyl like nuclear law until you're going to rethink until you stop listening to the corporations, but you're again looking at the citizen, the damage and the danger potential for the citizen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Langthaler.]] I just wanted to tell the Federal Minister that it would have been better if he had remained persistent, he would have remained philosopher - in order to try again "the consolation of philosophy" of late antiquities, ladies and gentlemen, the High House! It is unfortunate that the amendment tabled by Mrs Rauch-Kallat on the question of who gets a party position in the proceedings has even gone behind building law. Please write in that you just want to equip the neighbor with a party position and not the neighbor. In the building law, the neighbor is everyone affected by the construction, everyone affected by emissions. But all you've done here is get the pretzel. Only the locals, the immediate property neighbors! [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: If there's a way in between, then it's no longer a trailer!]] If in between a Bacherl, a street, is a footpath, then he's not a coach anymore. Then he can go brutal, his party position is gone. Federal Minister! This goes far behind the valid construction law. If a housekeeper builds a single family house today, he has to expect multi-party position of his neighbors, as provided for in this law following the amendment by the colleague Rauch-Kallat. Ladies and gentlemen! One can see how closely one wants to shape the rights of the citizen and how far one keeps the field of activity open for powerful but supposedly so poor corporations. Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! What you decide today is a corporate law and not a right for the citizen! That is very unfortunate. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I am therefore in favour of the democratic implications of this whole popular desire and its treatment in Parliament; this question has already been raised by a number of previous speakers. Ladies and gentlemen! What the coalition is doing is, and this is the example, particularly clear, that it is messing up the constitutional structure of this country every day and every day, to the detriment of civil rights, to the detriment of democracy and to the detriment of parliamentarianism. They deal with the operators of popular desire in a way that Mrs Langthaler has already described: The participants of the coalition parties withdraw to the command edition in the side room, then return and tell the people's desire operators what they have to do in the discussion at all. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Nothing negotiable!]] They deal with the people's desire and thus with the citizens in such a way that the citizen simply has to fall into resignation! If he sees how to deal with this, but also with other popular desires, he must have the impression that there is nothing at all to express his opinion to the politicians with his signature. There is no point in trying to get a church office to sign and support a concern there. Ladies and gentlemen! For the first time, Mr. Khol, the operators of three popular desires have joined forces to an "initiative direct democracy" the operators of the women's people's desire, Mrs. Prammer's Minister of State, the genetic engineering people's desire and the popular desire, because all three people's desires are trampled on by the coalition. [[The speaker shall hold a statement bearing this title.]] This is the result of the treatment of these popular desires! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That is why Mr Waigel in Germany is currently warning all democrats of the Austrian coalition situation. He exhorts them not to take an example of the Austrian great coalition. The Socialists are currently considering a large coalition in Germany. Waigel appeals to her not to take an example of Austria, because that would be the renunciation, the swan singing of democracy. - And this is indeed the case in the case of the treatment of these three people's desires, ladies and gentlemen. There is always the excuse with the European Union. We are talking about an institution that is not even sufficiently legitimate in terms of democracy. You talk about institutions and you say: Parliamentaryism in Austria has no other means. But it is not to be said that, in fact, Parliament should also be reduced, that the Federal Council should then be abolished at all. And even the days of land can be saved pretty slowly if this continues, ladies and gentlemen. Tell the citizen that, although he has no rights, he at least does not have to afford to himself these huge devices with countless privileges. Ladies and gentlemen! Tell the people! If you say so, at least you'll be taken seriously by the people. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] As is now the case, the public can only have the impression that Parliament is being transferred to a puppet theatre in the Federal Government. Government legislation is on the agenda; we have seen it today. I repeat: Government legislation is on the agenda! With a reform of the Rules of Procedure, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Langthaler of the Greens, this has just been a sin that you agreed to at the time, this Parliament has been hit by a muzzle. This has been shown yesterday, and this shows up in the committees today, and it will show up in the future. The great coalition abuses its absolute power shamelessly! Investigation committees shall not be authorised. Parliament's right of control is being trampled on. The Court of Auditors - as the Greens are also suffering, as we are - has come to an institution with which the government... [[Abg. Dr. Gredler: Would you have agreed yesterday!]] No, my dear colleague! I could not support the fact that you came here and wanted to make your own democratic failure to do so to the President of the Federal Republic of Germany. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Barmüller: You fell into the Kurdish question!]] The Federal President, a directly democratically elected body, will continue to be circumcised in his right hand. You have also carried the last novel from the Liberal Forum. That was the novel to the Austrian National Bank Act. That's how it goes every day. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: Overturned!]] I remember that the attempts of President Fischer to further modify the rights of the President of the Federal Republic of Germany to the EU Constitutional Law have also been supported by your group. I remember that very well. And now your Mrs. President-in-Office wants to pretend that she is becoming a strong Federal President. - But she'll never get into this embarrassment. She'll go down in a simple way in the election, believe me. She'll probably be behind Richard Lugner. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: She won't go down as far as you do!]] Mein Ladies and gentlemen from the Liberal Forum! This shows the dual nature with which you conduct politics - depending on how it fits you right now. You understand me? That is why the Green Group, which has closed a line, is simply the more serious and more serious contact person and, as far as genetic engineering is concerned, certainly the more competent contact person. [[Abg. Dr Gredler: Oh! Look, look!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This refusal of democracy of the great coalition - and this is the problem with these three popular desires - leads 150 years after the bourgeois revolution, to which we today have a special exhibition in Parliament - I do not know if you have received this invitation - 150 years after the 1848 revolution with which parliamentaryism was founded, to the fact that this Parliament is constantly being disregarded. [[the speaker keeps the invitation up to date]] We have seen yesterday that Parliament's resolutions are no longer worth anything. Today we are experiencing that this Parliament is even being put under the dictatorship of powerful corporate lords, ladies and gentlemen and Mr Federal Minister and Mrs Federal Minister. That's the sad one! That is what makes people increasingly despair about democracy! This is also the reason why the non-electorate share is constantly increasing, why the refusal of democracy is increasing among citizens and why we fall into a new biedermeiertum. A new Biedermeiertum is announced 150 years after the revolution of 1848. The little "mini-metres" are back - whether they are called One or Kostelka, no longer plays a role. The little "mini-metres" are again the ones that have the saying and which are based on powerful lobbies - but not on the voice of the citizen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The censorship of the "Political Correctness" is the one that is supposed to ban us from thinking and talking today. That's the problem! Federal Minister! The citizen is therefore disappointed more and more by a democracy designed to permanently reduce his rights, while the rights of powerful lobbys are constantly increasing. I think that this is a path that is not responsible for my group: away from democracy, away from parliamentarianism and towards oligarchy. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Talk time!]] That's something we don't want. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Talk time!]] - Please, that's my speaking time. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: The light shines!]] Mr Kostelka has discovered a light! A little light went up to him! Mr Kostelka, I do not know whether your Federal Managing Director Rudas also raised a little light when he looked through the accounts and discovered that you had transferred 33 million schillings, which you should not have transferred. Mr Kostelka! You know, you should not take care of my speaking time or the speaking time of my group. If you'd rather take care of citizens' rights, you'll be taken seriously again!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e4333	Mrs Anna Huber is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e4361	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! Despite a climate of artificial excitement, despite many populist actionism, I would like to say: I believe that in the last seven months the Committee on Genetics has succeeded in discussing the very complex field of genetic engineering very much, very objectively, and in fulfilling the intentions of popular desire as far as possible. I think this has succeeded, although in some respects I would have wished for more, and despite the phased refusal of dialogue of the proponents of popular desire and opposition parties, it has succeeded. Ladies and gentlemen! In principle, genetic engineering is not rejected in Austria. The Austrian population is very different between the different applications. Genetic engineering research and development in the field of medicine, health care and the development of drugs is expressly supported. However, I believe that even as developments are closely monitored, there are ethical problems in this area in particular. I am thinking, for example, of discrimination against workers if they might have disclosed their genome to the worker. What do the Austrians want, far beyond the number of supporters of popular desire, as all surveys show? - We all do not want to eat genetically modified foods, and we do not want genetically modified organisms in our environment. "No food from the gene lab" was the very plausible demand of popular desire. But how can this be achieved in a free market where food from all over the world is on the shelves of our stores? The only possibility is that consumers can choose to opt for or against genetically modified foods. This is, however, only about comprehensive labelling. This is the path that Minister Krammer showed and took at the time, and which Minister Barbara Prammer has now gone on in an extremely consistent way. In this area Austrians have been very, very successful; this has already been indicated today. There has been a tremendous change of mood in Europe. I too am very pleased that we have achieved a stage victory by continuing the ban on Gen-Mais import. We Austrians have prepared the ground for comprehensive labelling in the European Union, namely labelling with all additives. I particularly congratulate our Minister for Consumer Protection for her extremely consistent attitude, for her toughness and for her enforcement. She managed to do that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, because all of this is far too slow and far too tough, it is necessary to put pressure on this comprehensive label to be enforced throughout Europe as soon as possible. I believe that Austria - particularly within the framework of the EU Presidency - can and must set an important impetus on this. I also expect further security for consumers through our positive labelling, which will bring new standards, especially in the Austrian bio-country. Today's legislative proposals, which are a compromise - I would like to admit - are, in my view, very important steps towards greater participation for citizens, greater safety and greater clarity in the field of the application of genetic engineering. However, I do not believe that the conclusion of the Committee's deliberations, or today's day, can and may be the end of the discussion of the pros and cons of genetic engineering, their opportunities and risks. I therefore particularly welcome the information campaign of our Minister for Consumer Protection. There will be much more to it, which is not yet foreseeable and affordable. I therefore think it is particularly important that we, as legislators, strive to follow developments in this field of new technologies very closely and very attentively and, if this is necessary, to use barriers and security mechanisms - for all our good and for all our protection!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e4427	The next speaker is Mrs Gredler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e4445	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Mrs Bundesminister, I do not agree with your statement that you have regretd that not all the members of the committee were present when it came to liability. As I do not agree with the Committee's protocol, you yourself said that the documents were incomplete. You've done - that's on page 19 -: The results soon available show the way in the right direction. - So you refer to results which are not yet available to the Committee, and you wonder that the Committee members who do not have a basis for discussion do not wish to have a therapeutic hour with you, but only have the basis for discussing or expressing their opinions. I think that's correct. I think they will not be paid to do with you or spend a nice hour, but they will be created on a basis in the Committee. The fact that you complain and say that you do not understand that you refuse the discussion, I think it is particularly strange. That should be said to you - even if you are now distracted by Mr Schwemlein. [[Abg. Schwemlein speaks to the Federal Minister Mag, who is sitting on the government bank. Prammer]] [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I think it is also in line with your democratic understanding that we all have more of it when there are grounds for discussion at a meeting. And if these are not there, then we should actually interrupt the meeting. So claim. Don't ask things that aren't true. I also have to say that this is also the case with colleagues from other groups, such as Mr Magn. Chief, it's notable who meant: I would like to know how long it will take for the announced § 27 proposal to be present, because it is now obvious that it will be filibustered. In his opinion, it would have been fair to interrupt the Committee if it were not able to complete the request in good time. - That's to be read on page 23. There have therefore been very clear comments in this regard at the Committee meeting, and your regret is therefore not appropriate, Mrs Federal Minister. Finally, I would like to say that it has also been noted that, although the beginning of the sitting was 11 a.m., the Maria Rauch-Kallat was only informed at 14.45 a.m. that the § 27-proposal is now in place. So at 11 a.m. the meeting started and only at 1.45 p.m. was the basis for the discussion. I think this is a strange process. But it's going on. In fact, I would like us not to get 20 points in this law in the plenary amendment. Either this has been chordd in the government or not. [[Abg. Schwemlein continues to speak with Federal Minister Mag. Prammer]] - Mr. Schwemlein! Please hold your discussions when we finish the debate. I see that you want to welcome Mrs Bundesminister, she is a very nice person, but if you want to discuss a problem with her, you do so outside the plenary. We are talking about item 3 in the amendment you have discussed here. There it says: The owners of the property on which the release is to take place shall have a party position if they meet different criteria. First: If according to § 43 para. 1 and 2 reasoned objections in writing to the authorities and explained in detail at the hearing, while at the same time demonstrating the existence of the conditions for a party position with his written objections. - So with the amendment that is now being tabled, you are actually leading to an intensification of the situation of those persons who are affected. What do you mean, "owners of the property"? Mr Stadler. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. If the property has been leased, you no longer have a party position, or if you are not an immediate neighbor, you are already out of the conversation cycle, and you still have to meet these three conditions. I don't think that's a step back. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Considering that genetic technology could be a problem, one must also risk dialogue with the affected population. I deliberately say "risk" because I believe that we all have something of it and it is not bad if there is resistance. This is the only way to determine whether there is a danger to the environment or not. And the surroundings are not just the neighbours. [[Federal Minister Mag. Prammer's in conversation.]] - So you're very popular, Mrs. Federal Minister; I congratulate you on this. However, unlike the Greens, who are unfortunately not present at the moment, I would like to point out the following: I do not see how such a fear of food has been produced that has been genetically modified. One has to research in this field and be really aware of what they are doing in the body. I know that people like Professor Graninger would like to conduct research by administering genetically modified foods for three months to determine the changes in the body. I think this research is particularly important. Only: On the one hand, to say that, for example, as a doctor, I may inject a potato extract without further injection, even if it has used genetic technology, and on the other hand to think that the same potato on the plate may be dangerous, I do not see. There are two measures of measure. We must set the same standards as in medicine, namely, to determine the long-term effects it might have in order to be able to really discuss food in a relaxed way. I know that there are research results in the Philippines in relation to a rice grain which is more resistant and even larger to drought. If we consider that in a few years the world population will include 15 billion people, we must ensure that these people can be fed with healthy food as possible. And if you cannot produce these foods in a natural way, then you must try to find ways to feed these people differently. I do not want research where there are no legal regulations, but I want to have research in those countries where there are particularly strict regulations. And that is why I would like us to proceed more offensively and give the researchers more space for development or more money. If one speaks first of 1 billion schilling, which is spent for it, and then suddenly, as last year, only more than 700 million schilling are available, then the trend is declining as far as research is concerned, and not forward, as is so often claimed by the ÖVP. Now I come to the end to talk about something that really irritated me. I have heard from colleagues from other countries in the European Parliament that they have built very much on Austria when it came to genetic patenting. The directive in question has, as you know, been negotiated in a conciliation committee. The Austrian side sent a dedicated but very young official, who had only recently resided in Brussels, to this conciliation committee. And there was really a disappointing result. In such a situation, one should send only the best officials, not a young official who really thinks it is good, but who has never met the mechanisms of a conciliation committee. This caused great disappointment among the European Parliamentarians, who were represented there, because they really built on Austria. You would have wished us to send a full-time profi, and not someone who is not yet mastering the mechanisms that are active in Brussels. Please, Mrs. Federal Minister, who talks about your commitment in Brussels, you also use your best officials there! [[Federal Minister Mag. Prammer: This is the Minister of Economic Affairs! That's not my area!]] Yes, then make sure that the Minister of Economic Affairs from the other government party employs the best people. I do not see why one colleague of government is constantly talking about the other. Are you in a government or not? - That's really the question!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e4510	Mr Dr. Schwimmer has now come to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e4528	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A brief comment on Mrs Gredler: Your last comments have been very well integrated into what you ordered here yesterday evening, namely to defame with a light hand, to bring down someone with ease. You have not yet relied on your own perceptions, but have claimed that other colleagues in the European Parliament would have said that the Austrian official would not have been able to do so. I think this is an official who makes his work to the best of his knowledge and conscience, who represents Austrian interests there, so to speak, for bad, Mrs. Gredler, and reject it! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Barmüller: Dr. Schwimmer! Stop saying something that does not correspond to the truth!]] Mr. Barmüller! No one will be able to represent Austrian interests at all if, by the way, his professional honour from the Liberal Forum - very "liberal" - is thus thrown into the dirt. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: This has not been done! You know that!]] That's to be rejected, Mr. Barmüller. As a lawyer, you should give Mrs Gredler the advice to refrain from such an operation here! I would like to say this clearly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] After all, they are going along with the truth very easily. Today's debate was highly revealing. You too have crocodile tears on the Committee meeting on 5 May. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. [[Abg. Dr Gredler: I didn't say that!]] I didn't talk about you, Mrs Gredler. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: On 5. You've been negotiating in Parliament's backroom on December!]] Let me speak out, Mr Barmüller. You don't want to hear the truth because then your argument collapses. They claimed that the coalition would not have been present and would have negotiated in the back room and that is why we had to leave. [[Abg. Dr Gredler: Who said that?]] Mrs Rauch-Kallat, my group colleague, presided over the entire Committee meeting. There was an exception to the entire ÖDP Group. There was an exception to the entire SPÖ Group. There are two Members outside who have discussed with experts a request to make in committee. I do not remember, Mr Barmüller, that you would ever have discussed in a committee with your experts in front of the eyes and ears of the others, as you put an application. You will come to the meeting with a fixed and completed request or receive a request from a club member during the meeting so that you can submit it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Barmüller.]] There is nothing to be said about it. A committee is not an editorial committee for political groups. This is a good thing to do outside the committee, and this has happened. So that's a really crazy excuse! Mr. Barmüller! The last committee meeting was even out of the open. Once again, representatives of the people's desire and oppositionists have left the committee's venue under protest because the procedure was supposedly totally impossible. The protest and the abandonment of the meeting took place at a time when a press conference had already been convened. [[Ironic calls of astonishment at the ÖVP.]] Right at the same time! However, the strategy has failed. The journalists who were invited knew why you came out - not out of protest, but because you had invited! Then the following happened, Mr Barmüller - and I should like to make this clear now -: Mrs Langthaler brought a real quote. She correctly quoted Mrs Rauch-Kallat: The coalition parties have taken seriously the concerns and fears of the signatorys of popular desire. We have therefore also put in place a concrete legislative proposal in committee. I thought maybe I missed something. I have therefore read the Committee's reports again. None of the opposition parties put forward a concrete bill, neither by Barmüller nor by Langthaler, neither by Schweitzer nor by Pumberger. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: That's not true!]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no! Therefore, it could not be agreed either. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: The application has been submitted! Then you didn't vote! That would be contrary to business rules!]] There has been no amendment to the request for amendments to the Genetic Engineering Act to be adopted today by the opposition. That could not happen either, because you were no longer present. They were outside at the press conference. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: You haven't even distributed it yet!]] So "severe" you have taken the concerns and fears of the Signatories. In contrast to you, we've been working on it. But I already admit: One must also deal with the arguments of the fearmakers, and that is what you belong to. For the following, I am very grateful to Mrs Gredler: In popular desire - not the Signatories, but the initiators - only things relating to food were written in, and it was said: As far as medicine is concerned, everything is completely out of question! - That's scientific nonsense in itself, because it's really about the same techniques. Because if you change a plant genetically by using sequences of another plant to give it other properties, then it is not at all more monstrostic or dangerous than if you transfer gene sequences of the human pancreas to a colibacterium that normally exists in the human intestine, so that this bacterium can produce human insulin. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Barmüller.]] Thank God it has succeeded! This human insulin is much more tolerable than that of a pig insulin that had to be used before and that has created new difficulties for the generation of sugar disease. The same applies to coagulation factor 8 and other things. Of course, you did not want to question that; I understand that because it would have been unpopular, but a border crossing - and Mrs Gredler thankfully said here - is not possible between medicine and use in food or plant biology. I happened to find an article on a gene potato in the "magazine" that is suitable for immunization against cholera, which means a connection between food and medical technology. Especially for developing countries where cholera is still a major threat - 5 million people suffer, 200 000 die every year - this would be a very, very good method. Since a clear border crossing is to be made, it is not possible. A limit must be drawn between things that are dangerous and things that are not dangerous, which have also been tested accordingly. In this context, for example, release is needed. We must draw borders - and I am very much in favour - between good use and abuse, for like everything that man does, it can also be used or misused. I therefore believe that the coalition parties are on the right track: We have taken seriously the concerns and fears of the Signatories. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: You didn't even understand!]] I admit, in one point we were not successful: We have not been able to stop the fear-making of MEPs Barmüller, Langthaler, Schweitzer, Pumberger et cetera. They will continue to try to make politics with fear, but I think the Austrians will see through them. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: Her polemics exposes her herself!]] And the Lower Austrians have long looked through the Liberal Forum, Mr. Barmüller.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e4710	Mrs Langthaler spoke on an actual correction. Ladies and gentlemen, please start with the facts you want to correct. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e4732	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schwimmer said that the opposition parties had not brought any legislative changes to the committees. - This claim is incorrect. The Greens have already submitted their own legislative proposal for a genetic engineering law many months ago and have repeatedly asked you to discuss it in concrete terms. Mr Schwimmer has also claimed that a border crossing between the use of genetic engineering in medicine and in the food sector is not possible. - This claim too is completely incorrect, otherwise I would call on all the colleagues present to produce a law in the future which precisely regulates the issue of packs and the reading of the same text when it comes to the sale of food. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e4762	Mr. Dr. Schwimmer, you have reported a personal response. Please explain briefly why you are personally affected.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e4786	Mrs Langthaler told me that I had reported wrong from the committee meeting. I'll put it right: I have reported to the Committee meeting that no legislative request has been submitted by the opposition committee. On the basis of the Committee's report, I have once again made sure that: The opposition representatives of the main, Schweitzer, Pumberger and Langthal resolution were put forward, which did not find a majority; no legislative proposal was put forward. [[Call the Greens: This is a smooth abuse!]] [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: We have submitted our own bill!]] I have therefore said the truth, and Mrs Langthaler has drawn me to the injustice of the truth.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e4842	Mr Wabl, Member of the Commission. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e4858	Mr President. Mr Schwimmer just claimed what he had already claimed. That was not a personal response, but a misuse of the Rules of Procedure! [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: I can't resist untruth?]] We can read this in the minutes and deal with it in the next presidency. That kind of response has never been approved!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e4907	Deputies! The discussion, which is permitted in the context of an actual correction, as well as in the context of a personal response, has a certain tradition in this House. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: But only for party colleagues!]] You know that. We have dealt with this on several occasions in the President-in-Office, and we will also take this case to the occasion to discuss it again. Mr Barmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e4933	Mr Neisser! I would just like to say that on another occasion, when I wanted to make a personal reply in a similar case, I was not granted by Mr Fischer, on the grounds that I was not personally affected. This was the same case as Mr Schwimmer. It is unfair to make such an uneven treatment between opposition and government. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e4958	Deputies! I cannot judge the case you mentioned because I did not hold the presidency at that time. We will talk about it in the Presidential. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Swimper lies!]] Mrs Dr Gabriela Moser has now come to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Swimper lies!]] [[Call at the ÖVP: She screamed "Swimmer lie"!]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Swimper lies!]] Mrs. Dr. Petrovic! I give you a call for order for the statement "Swimmer lies!". We are now continuing the discussion. [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: She's still laughing!]] Mrs Dr Gabriela Moser spoke. You have a total speaking time of 16 minutes available, and I now ask for attention to be paid to the speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e5057	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! Dear High House! Dear Mr Schwimmer! It's like a little follow-up. It is incorrect that the opposition would not have submitted any requests relating to the genetic engineering people's desire. There are three applications. [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: I didn't say that! I have said that there is no legislative proposal in the Committee on Special Affairs.]] There are three applications; one of them is from the Health Committee, and this one has been, as you have rightly stated - please be careful! - not dealt with in the special committee, because the procedure was that the special committee had to deal with us in such a way that we had to stay away from this meeting of the Special Committee in order to obtain a little more genetic engineering at all. [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: You didn't submit a bill!]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] That is why such a request has not been made in the Special Committee. However, there have been very likely applications from the opposition side, and these are in the Health Committee. - That's just the correct position. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] All in all, this eclate, this incident, shows very clearly that, in the context of genetic engineering, more than a democratic sound wall has been broken through. It is not only that 1.25 million signatures have not been taken seriously by Austrians, but today this democratic sound wall is going to come through here again, by arguing extremely hypocritically and putting us in a corner that we have not somehow been targeted at. We are neither hostile to the workplace nor anti-technology, nor are we lazy in committee work by not submitting any legislative proposals. That's all wrong! It is true, on the other hand, that the demands made by the people's signatorys, by the way they were treated in this Special Committee, were put more or less in front of the door, left on the left, crossed and stepped more or less with feet. Today, Mrs Prammer pointed out that several delays were possible in connection with the EU; Minister Bartenstein referred to this too. Mr Michalek referred to the "great" liability regime. Overall, however, the successes are extremely minimal; the most important points could not be enforced. What does it look like in relation to the party position? - There is no direct right of parties to the citizens' initiatives, and this is a big manko. There are also very, very large deficits as regards the balance of the genetic engineering Commission. They have failed to install an independent Commission. They have delegated this task to the Academy of Science, which has been in charge of the occupation for five years. This occupation is voluntary. That is to say, those scientists who need to get money out of industry in order to advance their research sit at the same time in the Commission of the Academy of Science, which then makes the decision whether something is allowed or not. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: This is an unhonorful submission!]] There you can make the bock a gardener, please! That's quite clear. On the back door of the Commission, practically the interests of industry are re-emphasized. A skillful, refined method, but de facto does not make an objective assessment. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: That's an intolerable premise!]] You may also have the opportunity to appoint some independent or a representative from the Austrian Scientific Forum, but this one is going under, because the regulation, which is the result of the majority, is that a simple majority is sufficient; a simple majority in a very, very controversial and technologically very, very open area. This is an area in which people in part have confidence in science, but very many people also show skepticism towards science, which is scepticism, because science in Austria can no longer work objectively because of the financial situation. This Commission will most likely weigh scientists who are paid by the genetic engineering industry - and on the other hand will draw up opinions which will be very likely to be crucial for the further process just in the sense of the genetic engineering lobby. I would also like to refer to the question of liability, because there is also a lot to criticise in this regard: In fact, it was not taken into account by the association action - and not by the instigation. A possible eco-damage cannot also be used, which could then be taken into account or treated in a liability procedure. And these are blatant legal flaws, please! The Minister himself has pointed out that, for example, the issue of the causality scheme is still very, very, very discussive. Please, there are shortcomings: Weaknesses in liability, shortcomings in the position of the party, shortcomings in the Commission. And all these shortcomings are combined into an overall picture characterized by the fact that you have not taken into account the basic requirement of popular desire, but have avoided it in detail. That is why our fundamental criticism of this procedure - and above all my reference to the fact that today's procedure in this debate is very, very questionable and also very dangerous - is very dangerous. Also, what Mr Bartenstein replied to my colleague, Mr Langthaler, regarding the work argument, namely his reference to the prognostic study is not correct! [[Call the ÖVP: vote!]] The prognosis study clearly states the following - I quote once again -: If one compares how many jobs are created by bio- and genetic engineering and how many become superfluous, they would be a job destroyer under the rule. - Citation. This has to be read, but the Minister has put genetic engineering and biotechnology back into a pot, and I must say that we have very little to do with biotechnology, if anything, but very probably with genetic technology, which is not in the medical field. And that's not where we're going to put wrong citations. The Minister has again compared twigs with pears, which I do not think is fair! Another argument which shows very clearly that the workplace discussion is being conducted in a false way is that very labour-intensive practices, as they are now usual, as a result of genetic engineering - which is probably the meaning and purpose of the whole; why is the industry so behind it? - mechanized, so to speak, shifted to machines and to the extent that workplace reduction is effected. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Then take off the ploughs! These are Ural arguments!]] Why is industry so much for that? - Because she can mechanize and save labour. That's why she's behind it. That is why this technology is very destructive! That's a clear bill! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Finally, I would like to focus on the dimension of labelling. Mrs Rauch-Kallat pointed out that this would be sought within the framework of the EU and that this might have been the performance of the Special Commission in connection with the call for "non-genotechnic food". So they have already weakened the demand of popular desire for "gentech-free food" into a requirement for labelling, and the labelling also depends on all clouds. This is not in any way EU-compliant, and you are not in a position to feel much too much pressure in Brussels in this direction. Above all, I do not understand this either in the light of the background, because, for example, individual Austrian country days - including your party colleagues - have decided the labelling system that genetically modified foods also bear this label. [[Calls.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] In this context, I can read to you a letter from your head of state in Upper Austria, Dr. Josef Pühringer, whom you have received as well as I, as a member of the National Council. In this letter he pointed out that the resolution of the Upper Austrian Land Day called for a labelling of genetic changes in seeds, feed and food, as well as the creation of an Austrian quality seal of genetic engineering freedom in foodstuffs. Even the land days are even further than you here in Parliament! They are not as far as the demands of popular desire. There's a democracy-political cascade. Finally, I would like to stress what I said at the outset: All in all, the procedure taken in this special committee in connection with the genetic engineering people's desire is really a scandal! This testifies to a democratic collapse and, above all, to a kneefall towards the genetic engineering lobby!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e5198	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Pittermann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e5213	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! Genetic engineering is a relatively new biotechnical branch of science and leaves little cold. The possibility to intervene in the smallest building blocks of life gives rise to feelings such as fear, hope, fascination, but also escape reflexes. Part of the fears are certainly based on the word "gen". Memories of the eugenics of the Third Reich with the most terrible effects in human history are awakened. More than 1.2 million people, around 21 percent of the electorate, did not support the genetic engineering people's desire, but about four-fifths of the electorate, about 4 million people, did not sign. Whether it is a vote against, a lack of interest or a lack of mobility is not to be found. It was therefore impossible to implement popular desire one because it is also the opinions of 4 million people to take into account. Not all exercise direct democracy by popular desire, many are sufficient for representative democracy by vote in the elections. It is therefore unacceptable to place a lack of democratic understanding among those who do not meet all the demands. I agree with those who claim that the risk of genetic engineering has not been proven - but neither is its danger guaranteed. The objectivity of some scientists is being doubted, and lobbyism is accused of them. It is asked: Should not the scientists of the Austrian Science Forum for Environmental Protection be nominated in the genetic engineering committee to represent views of the opponents of genetic engineering? - There is no uniform scientific statement on any subject; we must form our opinions from controversial knowledge and experience. Policymakers must find the greatest common denominator of people's needs in the future. On the three claims, first on the claim "No food from the gene lab!" because long-term damage cannot be ruled out: Personally, I don't share these fears. When I bring in genetically engineered vaccines as a healthy person, neither do I startle genetically produced food. Today we question genetic engineering in medicine. But how was it 10 years ago with us and about 25 years ago with the leading scientists in other countries? At that time there were similar concerns. I would like to introduce a few quotes to you, first one by Chargaff on the use of Escherichia coli in the experiments. He said: My generation was the first to wage a destructive war against nature under the leadership of the exact sciences. The future will curse us for that. - It has been applied for more than 20 years and has not yet been known to have any negative consequences. [[Abg. Aumayr: There is a fairly short period of 20 years!]] Much in life is done in shorter sequences. Berg, on the other hand, says: Our daily life, our social decisions and national actions bring certain risks. Similarly, the search for new knowledge can never be risk-free. So we assume that genetic engineering in medicine is undisputed today. How much better and less effective than genetically produced insulin! - Cancer, leukaemia or stem cell transplant without genetically produced growth factors is unimaginable today. Vaccines, which are most commonly administered healthy, are much safer today than those obtained in an old way from animals and human plasma. Hepatitis and HIV infections were transmitted through plasma medicines. If it had been given the geneticly produced factor 8, as it is available today, the AIDS epidemic of the blood would have saved us. Genetically produced erythropoietin helps save blood transfusions. Somatic gene therapy is a ray of hope in incurable diseases. This is much preferable to me than a discussion on death aid, because you can't help people otherwise. I am in favour of science continuing to research to save people in order to preserve and improve health. [[Congratulation with SPÖ and ÖVP as well as the Abg. May. Peter.]] Gene analysis can give people with risk factors greater security and decision-making opportunities for their future. Even after years of use, negative effects of genetically produced drugs have not been demonstrated. These drugs represent a quantum leap for medical possibilities. Back to the food and beverages: How dangerous are non-genotechnically modified foods? - Smoked foods have a high carcinogenic potential, they are co-polluters of the gastric cancer. Of course, occurring aflatoxin or mother grain in the food has dangerous consequences. On vacation abroad, we eat a lot of things that can't be sold here. The scientifically proven high risk potential of alcohol and nicotine for consumers and the environment does not induce any prohibition of these substances. An opposition party believes that it is free to harm itself; However, food from the genetic laboratory does not want to protect it from a danger that may not exist. Yes to the label! Everyone has to be able to decide for himself what food they want to eat. On the second demand "No release of genetically modified organisms in Austria!": A general ban is not possible. However, the Committee supports the improvements that have been requested with regard to party status - and I am particularly pleased with the party position of the federal states - and the extended occupation of the scientific committees and criminal frameworks. The genetic engineering makes its opponents fear for biodiversity. Haven't many species died out before and added new ones? Have not already our ancestors Species Changed and New Breeded? - It took longer periods. Since the existence of humanity, the human spirit has been driving forward development. Microorganisms have been eradicated, new ones have been discovered. Progress is so rapid, however, that they overwhelm many people. These then want to stop developments in order to feel secure and secure. But there is no way back, and there is no stop. If we don't push ourselves forward, we'll be driven. We cannot, however, vote for it, and we will not be more useful. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] For the benefit of our citizens, we must create conditions for research and industry to choose this country as a location. Only a growing economy enables jobs, social security and thus national peace. On the third request "No patent to life!": This is based on the following pathological reasons: The creation of life is to be reserved to nature. Is that still true today? - The seeds of a particular breeding bull are artificially brought into many cows in order to pass on the positive characteristics of an animal. Isn't that the root of a gene lab? One manipulates the nature with breeding of mules or of special breeds, one has dominated animals, one has moved animals and plants across earth parts. Male animals are castrated to make them more usable. These nature-changing, mostly improving interventions have existed since human thought. Now they are faster and more targeted. Finally, I note that few developments in recent decades have caused such diversity of opinion and contradiction of emotions as genetic engineering. More than 20 years ago, in America, leading scientists discussed the risks at the Aislomar Conference. In the meantime, new research results have been collected. There was no serious incident that made these fears appear justified. I would like to repeat another quote from Berg: It is expected that the public debate will shift from the question of how to conduct research safely to the question of whether it should be approved at all. - We have to allow research, and we have to promote it. Long-term risk will not be proven for a long time, but genetic technology is a quantum leap in progress and should be less emotionally debated. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] From the medical point of view, it is no longer possible to think of it, there it gives hope of controlling incurable diseases. I respect fears and social concerns of the opponents of genetic engineering, but I also expect them to understand contrasting views. The popular desire was taken very seriously and discussed in detail with experts. Unanimity was not attainable. Proposals, reports, resolutions and legislative drafts of this Special Committee have been prepared thanks to the extremely constructive work done by the Federal Minister Prammer, his staff and the representatives of our two political groups. They have brought the greatest common denominator of the various interests. That is why we are happy to agree.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e5274	Mr Barmüller asked for an actual correction. I give the floor to you, Mr Deputies. Please start with the facts you want to correct.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e5292	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schwimmer claimed that the Liberals had not made any request in the course of this Special Committee. [[Abg. Head: No bill!]] No bill, excuse me! I've gotten rid of this right now. [[The speaker shall keep a document up to date.]] Here is the request submitted to the Committee under order number 1/13 and to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. It has been called by Mrs Rauch-Kallat on the grounds that he would be voted. I cannot therefore understand why Mr Schwimmer said that we had not brought in anything. If the request is not in the report, I believe that there is a failure that will have to be resolved. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e5331	The next speaker is Mr Brauneder. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e5346	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! [[Calls and calls between the ÖVP, the Liberal Forum and Greens.]] I can understand that the waves are still going up and discussing - not within the meaning of the Rules of Procedure, but certainly for good reasons. These discussions show - as was the case before - that there is indeed a legitimate dissatisfaction about how means of direct democracy are treated in the House. I am aware that popular desire is not one to be implemented and can be implemented. However, arguments such as that must also be taken into account by the 4 million eligible persons who did not express themselves, are relatively difficult to understand. It seems that it is not directly a matter of a committee to take into account opinions that have not been expressed. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We are proud this year of the fact that 150 years ago parliamentaryism began in Austria. However, I do not know whether those who placed great hopes in parliamentarianism in 1848 would be happy to see what is happening here - not only in the matter of popular desires - and whether they would not rather turn around several times in their partly comfortable memorial tombs at the central cemetery. A minister of this commemorative year started with the fine statement - at least it was interpretable in this way - that Metternichsche Spittel should be sent to the university floor. Actually, this house - I correct myself: the majority of this house - makes something similar to that 150th anniversary of 1848. But I'm correcting myself again: This majority does not begin to disregard what was desired in 1848, but it continues, with an attitude towards parliamentarianism, which certainly does not meet the expectations of 1848. I would like to mention this banality: In principle, we have government legislation and no legislation by Parliament. If I recall some of the committee meetings in which the members are put down papers on paper at the last moment, and the opposition parties in particular have no opportunity to take a picture of the last version of the amendment of a law, I must say: This has little to do with parliamentarianism! At best, ladies and gentlemen - also from the majority of governments - we are here the eraser gum, which improves what is still wrong in the government template. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] So that corresponds entirely to the flood of law that is complained. Because what's going to be done? - The bureaucracy makes itself its own laws, not we create the guidelines for bureaucracy and administration. It is no wonder, therefore, that the flood of law often constitutes a collection of internal instructions for the officials who make themselves. Unfortunately, this also corresponds to the repeated instigation of opposition proposals in the committees, the introduction of opposition proposals and - as has just been clearly demonstrated - simply and simply forgetting legislative proposals on the part of the opposition. This also includes the reduction of control rights. I would just like to point out a recent point because we must not tire out that Austria is far below the European standard in this respect: The setting up of committees of inquiry is not a minority right in Austria, contrary to any parliamentary practice! [[Abg. May. Posch: What does this have to do with genetic engineering?]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is exactly how popular desire has been treated!]] This has to be done with the fact that we are now talking about popular desire and that the backdrop behind the way popular desires are dealt with is a general backdrop of how Parliamentaryism is dealt with here. That's it! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] As a parliamentarian, Mr Commissioner, it is not often enough to show that. Especially when there are shocks of brochures on exhibitions that praise the year 1848, one must measure the reality of parliamentarianism! I would also like to point out a certain kind of response. For example, there are requests for 33 lines of technical information relating to function, scope of action, decision-making power or legal form, which lead to the following response: 13 questions - in summary of questions 1 to 4 and 5 to 13 - are answered in 23 lines and, of course, in vain. This is also a way of dealing with parliamentarianism, which is unworthy of dealing with the means of direct democracy! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I do not want to talk about the "drying" of the Federal Council here, even though it would even be to talk about it, because this is something that is at the expense of indirect representations and in favour of the bureaucracy of the countries. However, it is now my concern to point out the general tendency of the escape from Parliament. We had the escape from the private administration, the escape from the budget and the escape from control 20 or 25 years ago. This continues to happen in the places where sham privatizations and sham autonomy solutions are sought, and we can no longer exercise our control rights here - I do not want to speak of legislation at all - here. Therefore, if two people's desires are removed if they are treated dilatorally, I regret that this is the general development of parliamentarianism. On the following point will still be to be discussed today - I hope I can comment on this -: If a people's desire demands that legal action be taken and then a constitutional provision which is completely unnecessary, I believe that this is a dilatoral treatment of one of the very few means of direct democracy that we have. I say this without any value judgment. We have only a few means of direct democracy, but those we have should be taken seriously by Parliament. I regret that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e5425	The next speaker is Mr Donabauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e5440	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Great processes of change concern us daily and touch our entire life. Not all that is old is good, and not all that is new is bad. In any case, it's clear: We should not encounter new developments with fear and panic, but we must be committed to them. [[Abg. May. Stadler: I expected this formulation!]] One must have the courage to go also unpleasant ways. A wide-ranging discussion process has been initiated by the genetic engineering people's desire, and this is what we have set ourselves. If criticism is appropriate, then it can be seen that popular desire is actually only aimed at a single part of genetic technology and has not perceived the whole range that we have to see here. Many members of the Committee have been very intensive in dealing with this matter. The genetic engineering, a sub-area of biotechnology, is certainly a highly controversial issue. This shows the discussion today, and the discussion in the committees was also dominated. The fact that even by the operators of popular desire and by many companions of these concerns genetic engineering and genetic change have not been properly questioned, for example, in medicine, shows that this matter has never been fully seen. Rather, it was observed that this question was strongly emotionalized, and in some cases the media have certainly also come in mightily. I think that we all have to keep going and think about the facts together. For example, if something, as mentioned earlier, is for the benefit of humans in important areas of our lives, it cannot be presented in life in general as a great threat or as a human being to curse. It was extremely difficult to find a proper way to develop the requirements of popular desire - which could be discussed for a long time - and to achieve a real useful result. It is certainly not all the questions that have been resolved with this bill. Certainly not all the expectations of the exponents were met. This was not to be expected either, since there was no consensus necessary for a common line. The results of the Committee's deliberations today are also not in line with the views of the opposition parties. There was no particular interest in a comprehensive solution either, otherwise they would not have taken off at the end of the discussions and would not have been in a spectacular way at a press conference which has completely failed to have its effect in its suffering - you must take note of it. If you like today. Schweitzer here said he splits into winner and loser, then I can only tell him one thing: He is certainly on the side of the losers, because all those who have gone out have shown no interest in a positive, usable solution, have not cooperated and are therefore not to be described as winners. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Democracy is on the side of the losers!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The result that we are consulting and deciding today is certainly in line with the expectations of many of the people's desires and of many citizens who are interested in a future-oriented meaningful development. The outcome of the consultation is certainly a major progress for our country as a whole, because it regulates scientific research. The use of genetically modified organisms in the products is, of course, only possible under strict conditions and when conditions are met. This result of the discussions is important for our country, because we had to get out of a depressing isolation in Austria. It was not reassuring and not at all upbuilding if companies of international or national concentration declared that in Austria companies do not want to invest, since - from their point of view - the attitude in Austria to genetic engineering and biotechnology is generally considered poor, insignificant and extremely emotional. Not to know and allow everything, but to find out from the previously mentioned blockade: That was the special performance of the Committee! We should not only thank the chairman of the committee, Maria Rauch-Kallat, and Mr Gradwelt, but also all the staff in the ministries who participated in the Committee's work, but above all all all all the experts who were willing to take part in the entire Committee's deliberations, to follow and to take part in them. I believe that we have achieved something very important for our country. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Novotny.]] The decisive factor for matter is the fact that the liability provisions are optimally regulated by a high moral requirement and by a provision of cover after safety levels. The environmental impact is also taken into account. Administrative authorities may request recovery in the event of significant disturbances. Those who either criticised or claimed that the position of the parties in this area would be worse than in the field of building law, I would like to ask what construction law is in which a federal state or a neighbouring community has a direct party position. I don't know any such case. In Austria, we urgently need a comprehensive label to give the consumer appropriate support in their purchasing behaviour, which we also expect. There is still much to be done, as does the labelling of genetically modified seeds. A single entry of Austria in this area is and would never have been a target. What we need is a new thought, real expectations. One thing is clear: The demand for a free genetic engineering Austria is unrealistic. This does not correspond to today's facts, nor to the expectations of the economy, science and citizens. That is why we have to see this really difficult matter in the future, discuss it with the citizens and do a comprehensive investigation work in all areas.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e5500	The next speaker is Mrs Motter. 10 minutes of voluntary time limit. [[Abg. Mother: No, I didn't give myself!]] Ladies and gentlemen, the 10 minutes are the remaining quota of the total time that is left to your club. Please, ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e5532	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Dr. Schwimmer, on your medical findings, which you have made here today, I would just like to say that I regret that the Special Committee on Genetic Engineering lacked: According to reports, it was hardly found on genetic engineering in the field of medicine. I'm sorry about that later. Yes, you may. [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: Mrs. Motter! Can I make a call?]] [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: This is explicitly excluded from popular desire!]] Excuse me, I'd like to continue. I believe that you too, Mr Schwimmer, know that there has been a subcommittee on genetic engineering/health in the House for a long time. But this committee has simply been eliminated, a special committee has been set up instead, and in this committee there are many unfinished requests, including those from us liberals, as Mr Bamüller made clear earlier. [[Abg. May. Main: There are also freedom-of-law applications there!]] Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to say that I find it unfortunate and not in order that only because a subcommittee is run by an opposition politician who does not quite fit into the concept of a special committee whose chairmanship a Member is entrusted with by one of the two coalition parties. I do not think this is all right and I would like to write our criticism here again: The Health Subcommittee has been paralysed. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Mrs Rauch-Kallat - unfortunately she is not here now - I wanted to say that I welcome the fact that she believes that the citizen should be free to decide and that it must be able to do so and that it is therefore necessary to seek a European system for the declaration of foodstuffs. Mr Donabauer, who spoke before me, is no longer there. Obviously, he does not consider it necessary to listen to the next speaker. It is common for one to respond to statements made by a previous speaker. I think he has forgotten that we have been dealing with genetic engineering here in the House for over six years and not only since the loyal popular desire. I would also like to say that. Ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party! You know just as I do the demands made in November 1992 in the report of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry. I would like to quote them here: A clear and understandable label must be ensured for the consumer's ability to decide on or against a product produced or modified by means of genetic engineering or processes. The labelling requirement for genetically produced or modified products, products derived from genetically modified organisms, food, medicinal products, cosmetics and so on, containing genetically modified ingredients and products produced by genetically modified organisms shall be provided for in the Genetics Act or in the relevant materials. We know these demands, but we also know the reservations of the EIAs, which are very unfortunate. These are also recorded in writing - I quote -: The aim is to ensure that labelling is sought. However, it goes on to say: The aim is to identify products produced using genetic engineering methods. In establishing legal labelling obligations, it should be borne in mind that genetic technology is not discriminated against. - End of the quote. I ask you how gene technology is discriminated against when products indicate that it contains genetically produced or modified organisms, that they are genetically produced. This fear, ladies and gentlemen, can only be justified if one starts from the uncertainty of genetic technology. I hope, however, that the reason for the hesitation of the EIA is no longer valid six years later, otherwise today's confession would only be a farce. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] If there is talk of the great success of the Austrian People's Party, then this can easily be denied. In this context, I would like to refer to an own-initiative proposal concerning a resolution on the continuous labelling of genetic changes in seeds, feed and food, as well as the creation of an Austrian quality label for the freedom of genetic engineering in foodstuffs, adopted by the Austrian Parliament on 25 May. Feb 1998. I ask you: What is the success if, after six years of hesitation, an EIA-dominated state government has to demand this? [[Abg. Aumayr: What country day?]] The Upper Austrian Landtag. [[Abg. Aumayr: You said "Austrian"!]] Sorry! I'm correcting the Upper Austrian Landday. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Minister! I believe - and unfortunately it is not here - that you will continue your efforts to bring about the overdue adoption of implementing rules with the European Union. You're certainly not alone in the train. But what we can get ourselves in our country is that we set a also promised labelling requirement for food which is free from genetic engineering. My question to the Minister is: How far have the preparations been in order to finally provide a substantial aid to consumers in the field of positive labelling for food free from genetic engineering, and why, Mrs Minister, do you not promote businesses that already voluntarily do so? Finally, I would like to say that while a small step has been taken in the safety of the handling of genetic technology, it is satisfactory - also in the sense of popular desire - that the results of the negotiations that have been taking place here in the House for over six years cannot be described as satisfactory. I hope and wish that today's decision-making, which we certainly cannot give the vote, has not yet been the last word in genetic technology. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e5631	Mrs Reitsamer has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e5647	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Mother is right: She was one of those who were there from the beginning. It has moved me from the past to look back a little bit. I believe, from my group, that it was the only one who worked in the IVF Act from the outset, whether it was in the genetic engineering survey committee "Technology Assessment on the example of genetic technology" in 1992 and also in the event of the entry into force of the Genetic Engineering Act in 1994. Let me now come to the Committee on Inquiry. For me as a parliamentarian at the time was the most exciting time here in this House at all, because, although I have worked in depth on this matter since 1986, there was no meeting in which not a whole wealth of new things flowed into me. Extremely controversial discussions have been held there, but at a high level, ladies and gentlemen; unfortunately, this is a little different today. On the expert side, too, controversial arguments were made up to go-not-more, but every single opinion was taken extremely seriously, and it may be referred to as a star hour that at that time all four parties - all here in the House - agreed on a joint report. At the time, however, genetic engineering applications in the health sector were still much more controversial. But if we had given in at that time, we would have worked with scavengers, where would we be in health care, in prevention, in vaccinations today? But why were we so successful at the time? - There was the will to cooperate constructively, on the subject matter and, above all, on the acceptance of opposite opinions. At the time, it was recognized that genetic engineering could achieve in a few years or decades what evolution or other methods would need for centuries and longer. estimate technical consequences, analyse intended and unintended effects, take into account longer-term impacts and formulate criteria for the assessment: That was our task at the time! Technical hostility and engineering euphoria are opposite each other. It was important to lift the chances of this new technology and minimize its risks. At the time, some 200 legal regulations - a real warp - were responsible for the fields of genetic engineering, but there was nothing specific about the issue of release, nothing specific about liability problems, but the Commission already demanded the risk liability status back then. The unanimous opinion that a genetic engineering law would be indispensable was represented in all political groups, and it became, ladies and gentlemen, a good law. Only on the question of liability did we let ourselves be maligned at that time. We were comforted by the EIA law. We would wait until the Sankt-Nimmerleins Day if we did not include the liability regime in the Genetics Act today. Already in the Committee on Inquiry, there was a consensus on the fact that, with regard to releases, recovery cannot be understood as absolute repeatability, because to demand zero risk and zero emission would mean that genetic engineering should be finally adopted. Ladies and gentlemen! The 1992 report also shows that agreement has ruled over Austria as a site for genetic engineering and applications, i.e. for research, development and production, not only to secure but to strengthen them. Both the report and the genetic engineering law enabled science and research, opponents and skeptics and advocates to live alike - of course only after long and laborious persuasion! But the rapid development of these new technologies will be permanent - I emphasize: permanent! - make adjustment steps necessary. I myself was never in question of genetic engineering with the jealous, rather always skeptical, but not incomprehensible, when arguments have taken hold. I've invested a lot of time in information. I've always considered information to be a culprit. I have already made this point several times in some of my previous speeches. Medicine should not only be used to combat disease, but also to promote health. My colleague, Mr Pittermann, has already done so in a very specific way so that I can save myself. First of all, the Minister of Health, later also the Minister for Consumer Protection, put national legislation on EU law, because we were never satisfied with the Novel Food Regulation, always considered them insufficient. Our colleague Illona Graenitz in the European Parliament is considered a fighter on this issue. I would now like to refer to the ban on the import of genetically modified maize. We have already heard that the EU Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection did not take account of the Commission's recommendation before yesterday. This ban has not been repealed. We've won a partial victory. However, in the food sector we have always put very much on the label. I would now like to address the popular desire with its three points. In the special committee, it was not always the case that I had as positive experiences as I had in the genetic engineering survey committee. There was no acceptance of different opinions in broad areas, but I am glad that consensus has yet to be reached. I would remind you that we discussed four hours of labelling and that the answer was from one of the promoters: "Our order is: No food from the gene laboratory!" Then we got back to zero. It is all the more positive to stress that, in seven months, a change in the genetic engineering law has come about with the essential points. I call it a short name: Extension of party status in the event of release, higher penalties for illegal releases, modification of the form of nomination for scientific committees, liability schemes. The criticism of this compromise by both sides, ladies and gentlemen, is actually proof of his success. I would like so much success for the next popular desire to be treated here, namely that of women. Ladies and gentlemen! 1.2 million signers are very serious to take. But there was a lot of fear. I can only point to the campaign of a small format. I spoke to some of the Signatories of this genetic engineering people's desire and I actually had to find that they knew nothing about genetic engineering. Do you know what these people told me? - Yes, but they told us that our children could get sick, and who wants it! Working with such unfair methods is very worrying. It has already been pointed out today that there were four million eligible Austrians who did not express themselves. Of course one cannot take this into account, but it is already the question to ask: Is it ignorance? Don't they fear? Are they better informed? Are they just more realistic? I would like to compare the results of a 1991 survey. At that time 67 percent voted in favour of a genetic engineering law, and only 20 percent simply refused genetic engineering. Ladies and gentlemen! There is a lively travel activity in the world. People used and race around the globe, not only within the European Union, but actually around the globe, eat everything they are strange, prefer everything they are, and don't think about it. Only recently did I see a post on TV about an in-local here in Vienna. Australian crocodile meat, some "genuine" like grilled locusts are the very special hit of this house. We're not scared? That's where we have to think about it. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: I do!]] That calms me, Mr. Reichhold. So it can't be a production and sales ban, but it can be labels - as has often been said - for additives and also for the manufacturing process. [[Complementary of the Abg. Dr. Krammer]] In this context, the question is: To what extent are GMOs detectable? I am aware of the fact that a small institute near Milan is currently engaged in providing this proof to Gensoja. And this can be done by this institution even if the genetically modified share is only one percent. That's a great success. However, such a thing would not be possible without research. Now you're trying to test it for heat. That is, with this gensoya flour one cooks cookies to find out if then something is still detectable. All of this is important knowledge that we need in order to achieve as complete a label as possible. So the realists rely on marking. The next point: no releases in Austria. In Salzburg, once - I say consciously - one came to the snapside to explain Salzburg as a genetic-free zone. If you know that the Bavarian Freilassing is already growing together with Salzburg, I ask you: What about such a thing? I do not want to spread more closely about this. Here, too, the realists rely on appropriate examination, on proper approval procedures and on the question of liability to be clarified today. The demand "No patent to life!", ladies and gentlemen, I am most likely to join. However, I am concerned because the danger of dependence is pressing me. That is why I would like to quote a quote from the debate on the report on the Committee on Genetics and Research: We agreed that a ban on the patenting of genes must be pushed forward. Of course, we couldn't agree on what we understand under Gen. Is it a synthetic thing or a natural thing? We have even agreed that beyond this ban on the patenting of genes, it is necessary to reconsider patenting bans because it is intended to prevent the restriction of biomedical research, medical progress and the accessibility of agriculturally used living beings by patenting organisms. - It's just repeated here for thought. The competent member of the government, Mrs Prammer, has done a lot, and it will still be strongly demanded, ladies and gentlemen. The first reading on releases is currently taking place in the EU Parliament, the second reading on the application of closed systems. The decision-making process will therefore fall within the time of our EU Presidency. The Special Committee has been very successful, consensus solutions can be achieved, political compromises are all necessary. But what seems important to me is that the basis for discussion with the economy, with science and with the promoters has been preserved. Nevertheless, I would like to quote from the April issue of the journal "Chemie". Here's what it says: "In the field of genetic engineering, Europe is beginning to swirl on a pragmatic line. Austria's policy, on the other hand, can be more integrated than ever by Boulevard press and eco-opposition." - So as bad as this law is described here by the opposition parties, it cannot be if it is not enough for the representatives in the "chemy" for example. I'd say, This is no more true than the expressions of the opponents who call the result ridiculous and a mockery of the people's people's people's desire. They can never have expected that Claims 1 : 1 can be implemented. But sometimes I say that actionism is obviously a question of survival for some. Ladies and gentlemen! We have responsibility, and this can only be done on the ground of reality. We have responsibility in the health field, in research, in the maintenance of the site, for the workers concerned and so on. The long history shows the responsible handling of genetic engineering as a whole, which we have maintained and will certainly continue to maintain. However, it is still important to rely on information to counteract the anxiety. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e5687	Mr Magz (PPE). — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, Mr It's the main word. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e5703	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Justice Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to begin by clarifying two things in the memory of the disputes about the request with order number 1/13: I was a writer at the last meeting of the Special Committee on the treatment of genetic engineering, because, contrary to what has been claimed here, I was not withdrawn as an opposition MP. I can therefore recall that I have agreed to the request that it has been voted on, and I also believe that it corresponds to the political correctness that the actual operations of this committee are also correctly recorded. [[Abg. Hans Helmut Moser: Here you see the essential meaning of a writer!]] However, I have also been in the Bureau of this Parliament for a long time to know that, despite and without prejudice to the fact that it has been voted, this report has become valid in 1111, because the Liberal Forum, but also my group and I, as a writer, have not protested against the faulty presentation of this procedure within the corresponding time-limit and therefore have not requested any such supplement as it would actually be appropriate and correct. I would therefore like to say clearly and clearly to the minutes that the first is that the request has been tabled, that it has come to the vote, and that it has been rejected by the majority of the government parties against my vote. I think it is a matter of political fairness to clarify these things in the appropriate form. [[Congratulations on the Freeman, the ÖVP and the Liberal Forum.]] It was also with one reason why I was not expelled from the special committee of Parliament, although I would like to make it clear and clear that the fundamental concerns expressed here by Mr Schweitzer, Mr Barmüller and the colleague of the Greens were also my main concerns. However, I should like to stress the democratic tradition of this House that for so long negotiations will take place as long as there is a chance of achieving better results than those on the table. I have tried to improve this outcome for myself. In one point - I would like to confess - I also succeeded. The original application concerning the question of liability or the original amendments relating to the increase of the penalties included an error that the unsubmitted notification in Stage 1 for first-time genetic engineering projects and the repeated reporting in Stage 2 and any higher level had been lost. At the request of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, this has returned to the final decision-making paper. In the final analysis, I did not praise this, although I would like to say again to the public today that the peanuts are in relation to the omissions that have taken place within the framework of this Special Committee. I would also like to say clearly that I do not think that a committee of its own has been set up to deal with genetic engineering. I am long enough parliamentarians, and I know - the use in this House has actually been unbroken since 1945 - that these applications have been dealt with in those committees in which they belong. This would have been the case in the present case for the genetic engineering people's desire of the Health Committee. The legislative proposals of the Greens, the Liberal Forum and the Liberal Group are also on the subject of the Health Committee's subcommittee, and for me it is already a democratic disaster that the two government parties have not been able to make an appointment for a further meeting of the Health Committee's subcommittee for a year. [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: Who's the chairman?]] I believe, Mr Leiner, that there is nothing to be beautiful about. [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: Who's the chairman?]] You know that these dates are to be negotiated by common accord in the Presidential. [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: The chairman can do this!]] If you're serious about your speech, we're going to stand an example. Then Mr Pumberger will convene the meeting, we will inform you, and we will then consider who comes from the government parties to actually hold this meeting. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I tell you one thing, Mr Leiner: What you have said here as an intervening call will be a positive contradiction to us liberals, because it has always been disturbing for me as a parliamentarian that, if the government parties were to deal with legislative requests of the opposition, they have no dates, and we always as opposition, when a member of the government has been seeking a delay of time, have to be careful to deal with the wishes of the government parties. We, Mr Leiner, will be happy to support you with your support, which is now to be read in the Minutes, and I am convinced that, as a member of the Committee on Health for the Austrian People's Party, you will receive a corresponding call from Mr Pumberger on this subcommittee this week. [[Complaints with the liberals]] I will then look at you, Mr Leiner, who comes to this subcommittee from your group and which ministers are actually coming from your group. We've experienced that before. You have made such commitments in the plenary session, and when the subcommittee is convened, zero persons have been published by the government. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: That can't be!]] The subcommittee had to be re-opened with the waste of taxpayers' money, because there was no such viable majority. Mr Leiner! I'll be happy to meet your suggestion that you've put in the room here. I am also sure that our committee chairman will be happy to take this up. I am waiting, Mr Leiner, who will be right then. I am sure - and I have rarely been wrong in such matters of the Rules of Procedure - that my view will be that you will not appear again for consideration. If it were different, it should be right. Then, from today's debate, you have learned at least one thing: that democracy's fellow footsteps in this House are becoming quite dangerous, and that political indifference in Austria is also caused by how the government parties are handling the instruments of direct democracy here in this House. I believe that it was also significant in connection with the possibilities of direct democracy that honourable Member Posch meant, for which the speech by Mr Brauneder, Professor of the University, would be useful and that it was not part of the matter at all, for this is the attitude which many have in the SPÖ Group on direct democracy: Yes, what is the point, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, of turning directly to Parliament without a party official of Social Democracy? This is also noted in parliamentary practice outside the countryside, which is noted in parliamentary practice in the municipal councils. Mr Posch has certainly been the professionals who want to put away direct democracy here in the House once again. It is significant that this call has come from him. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I am, however, quite grateful for Mrs Pittermann's statement and also for the comments and intervening of Mr Schwimmer, because, in the run-up to this special genetic engineering committee, several attempts have been made - for example by the Industrial Association - to propose to the initiators of the genetic engineering people's desire for medicine hostility and, in the appropriate form, the turning off of genetic engineering in medicine. Today's two speeches have made it clear and clear - and this report is also clear and clear - that this has never been the interest of initiators. I would also like to point out that, at a time when it is actually standard, an assessment of the effects of technology in all areas, from telecommunications to power technology, from food technology to the production of sports goods is being carried out here as if the same would not be allowed in the field of genetic engineering. I say from my point of view and in contrarium to Mrs. Pittermann: As you have requested, Mrs Pittermann, that other opinions be admissible, I also ask you from the point of view of the opposition: Respect the other opinions of the representatives of the opposition! Technology assessment is also required in the context of genetic engineering not only, but also in our time, according to the spirit of time, in the context of scientific progress at all levels. I therefore believe that it would be wrong to establish a paradise here which would not provide for the assessment of the effects of genetic engineering. The attempts in this direction were varied in this subcommittee. I would like to confirm to the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats that it has been a pioneer in not allowing this technology assessment in the field of genetic engineering. I believe that Mr Schwimmer has been wrong. Not Mr Schweitzer was on the loser's way, because those who have tried to establish a method which is going on and going on today, namely the technology impact assessment, also in the field of genetic engineering, are not the losers, but those who are on the state of science, on the state of knowledge and, above all, on the side of democracy and citizens. I believe, Mr Schwimmer, that you will be taught a better person in the next few days. [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: Mr. Hoof! That's a mistake! I didn't say that! I have to make a real correction again.]] They will have to recognise that the position shown by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in the Committee is neither the attitude of advanced science nor advanced research nor the attitude of relevant forces in that state.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e5828	The next speaker is Mr Deputies Head. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e5843	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Quotes: "We take priority over the opportunities for this country and then deal with the risks." Quotes closed. - No quote from me, it's not from any ÖVP politician, but I still like it very well. It is from the German SPD Chancellor Schröder, and he has said this in particular with regard to the debate on genetic engineering in Germany. I wouldn't go as far as I can personally. I would not make any weighting or prioritisation, but I would say that these two things belong equally side by side, but they do not belong to reversed in their meaning. The fears of the population about genetic engineering and biotechnology are present. We must take them seriously, we have taken them seriously, even in the light of the fact that there is still no secure knowledge of hazards and not even about health damage and impairments - and this despite already 25 000 releases worldwide over the last ten years. Mr Langthaler mentioned the issue of jobs and the discussion with the Industrial Union some time ago and also mentioned a prognostic study on which it was discussed. I do not think, Mr Langthaler, that: They have come to a consensus or agreement with the Secretary-General of the Industrial Association of Lorenz Fritz, quoted by you, because in today's APA report, he continues to call it regrettable that "at times of national efforts to release employment potentials one of the most dynamic economic sectors of the future is fundamentally hindered in their employment-related development possibilities." - So that seems not to have been the case. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: The industrial union has said that it will no longer speak of 50,000 jobs!]] This is not, but he continues to quote prognosticism, in which the study clearly states that, in the face of overregulation, the frustration on the part of companies led to an acute reorientation and departure of the research departments abroad, and in the long term it only led to the fact that research and development took place abroad, but the products would then be sold in Germany, which of course would not generate value added and no jobs. The opponents of genetic engineering always accuse the advocates of one-sidedness. The opponents also always accuse the relevant economy of purely material interests and of acting on these interests and motives. I would say, if you are honest, you must also say in the direction of the NGOs: In both areas it is at best 1 : 1 between the economy and this sector of society. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Reichhold.]] Please, I admit, of course, that the economy has relevant interests - it would be bad if it were different - but I say that there are similar interests in NGOs, just holding in the other direction. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: You said material interests!]] It is precisely in this light that one must also see the motives of the opponents, and at the end of the day one must also see the popular desire and its condition. Here, opponents have formulated a popular desire, of which they say themselves today - quote in today's "Kurier" by Mrs. Sima -: "It is clear to us that one cannot put the demands into effect," of which they say themselves, the demands are not feasible in this formulation, in this expression. What's this? - Manipulation? [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] In any case, the Signatories had no choice in the formulations. There was Anxiety and fears among the signers, but they had no choice in the formulation. They have, of course, accepted those wordings which - perhaps clear from the outset - have now become unimplementable, because they wanted to express their concern. But what's behind that? - As a next step, the proponents interpret the text of popular desire according to their own ideas. As a member of this legislative body, however, I allow myself to interpret the text and the signatures in my own way, and I also take the right to derive from it a personal decision for myself. It is clear that the content of this popular desire by the legislator is not easy to implement 1 : 1 - then it would be in our constitution - but that it is a call for a group representing one-sided interests to deal with it. This is legitimate and should be done so. But it is equally legitimate and for us even an obligation to balance interests between these interests and the interests of other groups. This has been achieved to a degree in the treatment of this popular desire, as probably rarely before. In any case, the outcome of the treatment of this popular desire, which is now on the table with the amendment of the genetic engineering law, cannot be assumed to have failed to take sufficient account of the interests and concerns of the people expressed with the popular desire. What is the point of the vote? - A very comprehensive legislative change that introduces the world's strictest liability provisions, the strictest regulations on this issue at all, for the first time in Austria. For this balanced treatment, I would particularly like to thank our Secretary-General Maria Rauch-Kallat, as a member of the special committee on genetic engineering, but also Mr Gradwelt of the SPÖ. They have produced a balanced result for us, the legislative body of the federal government, in difficult negotiations, which fully fulfils the task.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e5904	Mr Pumberger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e5919	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I can't agree to the thanks of my previous speaker, Mr Kopf. [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: Why not?- Oh, my God!]] For what was done in these committees and what came out as a result is not in a reasonable relationship with each other. The installation of Mrs Rauch-Kallat as the subject of this special committee should be mentioned in this context. Although there has already been a subcommittee to deal only with genetic engineering issues, a special committee has been set up under its chairmanship, in order to ensure that there is an ÖVP chairman in the Committee on Genetics as a counterpart to the SPÖ chairman in the Subcommittee on Women's Rights. This balanced the ratio - as "balanced" as the negotiations were in the sense of those who did not want the operators of popular desire, and with them, of course, all 1.2 million signatorys, to take their account. Mr Gradwelt speaks of a success for Austria and is proud of this outcome of the negotiations. - Deputies! You can't be proud of that! They may be proud, and the ÖVP must also be particularly proud, because it is the SPÖ this time - invariably the other way! - I pulled it over the table. But proud of the result are neither the operators of popular desire nor a single opposition party, but not one of the 1.2 million signers in particular! [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: The population is very proud of it!]] And that should make you think. They have worked for themselves and sought to satisfy the lobbyists, the genetic engineering industry. You do not care what concerns the people on this question. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The SPÖ has not even managed to fulfill the wishes of the Federal Chancellor. The Federal Chancellor, when discussing the urgent question on this issue, answered the question of what he thought of a comprehensive party position quite clearly with Yes. He also said a clear yes to a balanced occupation of the scientific committees. - Nothing came out, nothing at all. Their own party, the SPÖ, has fallen in the back of their chancellor and has been pulled over the table by the ÖVP in the sense of the Genlobbyists. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] The opinion of the population has not been accepted! The SPÖ is doing only what she just believes. The Chancellor's word obviously does not apply much more to the party, otherwise it would be impossible to explain that, contrary to the instructions of the Federal Chancellor, so many SPÖ members signed for the Federal presidential candidate of Mrs Knoll. Contrary to the instructions of the Federal Chancellor! [[Abg. Koppler: You wouldn't have trusted that!]] So the chancellor can no longer assert himself in his own party. In this case, the SPÖ can be influenced more by the ÖVP than by its own chancellor! [[Abg. Müller: Democracy reigns with us!]] [[Abg. Dr. Stippel: We are not a leader party!]] In the SPÖ it looks ugly, and this is also documented by the results of the elections of the last two years, all of which have ended with defeats of the SPÖ. But also the ÖVP does not need to be pleased, it has lost just as much. [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: What about Lower Austria?]] The policy of such a great coalition is even feared in the Federal Republic of Germany. Theo Waigel warns the Germans of a great coalition. The policy of the great coalition, however, is also less and less approved by the Austrian population, and this also explains your electoral defeats. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Just wishful thinking!]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! To the point "free food". For this purpose, ÖVP invited Dr. Zacherl, employee of a large gene company, as an expert. This one has clearly stated where the free gene pickerl comes from. There was no mention of negative identification at all. Mrs Kallat even said that a positive label could only be voluntary, because it could not be demanded by the companies in the sense of distortion of competition and could not be enforced in the EU. - That's about her comment. [[Abg. Smoke-callat: Not exactly!]] - Mr Zacherl said that food would be "free" even if it contained up to 3 per cent of genetically modified substances. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Head.]] But if, for example, it is allergens, then it is not the concentration and the total quantity that is contained. Minimum components are sufficient to produce massive allergies. - Up to 3 per cent are no problem at all for your expert Zacherl, the chief negotiator in all these questions dealt with in the special genetic engineering committee. 3 per cent may stay inside. Or for release: It is really a joke to say that the penalty for illegal release is raised to 300 000 s. The genetic engineering companies pay such a sum from the post office! By 300 000 s they are not deterred from illegal releases. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Leiner.]] The Federal Minister for Justice has presented a nice draft on the liability arrangements. There would have been something else in it that you could have lived with. But all of this has unfortunately been stretched out. One now speaks of the world's strictest liability rules: Almost as sharp are the liability regulations of the Federal Republic of Germany, but in Austria they are even a bit sharper. - It could be. But even "better" is the exclusion of liability, virtually everything is excluded! For example, if an operator can prove or prove as likely that the damage has not been caused by genetic manipulation, then he is already "out of the tailor" and no longer needs to be held liable. [[Abg. Koppler: I think 7 minutes are up!]] It is therefore a law of liability for the genetic industry and not a liability for the people who need to eat these products and are thus exposed to this technology. That is why this committee has not acted in the interests of the population, but only in the interests of the genetic industry. It was supported by the ÖVP, the SPÖ was pulled over the table! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e6100	Mrs Silhavy is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Rest of the time of your club: 17 minutes. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e6115	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: What do you say about it now?]] What I'm saying, did you ask me, Mr. Colleague? - It's easy! There's a saying you might know. He refers to the fact that there are some short legs. - That's my statement. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Pumberger has qualified himself with his contribution to the debate. It is not worth taking a closer look at it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The debate on genetic engineering has included three points already quoted several times: no patent on life, no release of genetically engineered living beings in Austria and no food from the gene laboratory. These are three demands shared by many people at first listening. This is also confirmed by 1.2 million signatures. The SWS has recently published a motivational study on this popular desire. I assume she is known to all the ladies and gentlemen of this House. 24 percent of the respondents said that they could take a positive view of the use of genetic engineering in the food sector, but in medicine, the use of genetic engineering is rated as 68 percent positive - that is, only 24 percent in the food sector, but 68 percent in the medical field. Mr Pittermann has been very detailed in this area. Two thirds of the respondents have indicated that they have signed the popular desire precisely because they do not want to eat genetically engineered foods. I think that the initiatives of the SPÖ women and, above all, of our Minister for Consumer Protection on the issue of food labelling are an example of the fact that we are responding to the wishes of the people's signatorys, to the wishes of the powerful consumer, the powerful consumer. Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! You should deal with studies once and not just with your own opinions. But I can only recommend this to you; what the FPÖ is doing is yours. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Having your own opinion is difficult, I know!]] - Having one's own opinion is certainly difficult in the FPÖ, because you usually only wait for what a certain gentleman named "H. J." That's what I'm saying. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] 39 percent of non-signatorys have said that they would not have signed the popular desire because one cannot simply judge the attitude to genetic engineering with yes or no. [[Abg. Aumayr: But with "Well!"]] A clarification also seems to show another question: whether one is for the prohibition or control of this genetic technology. Two thirds of the respondents said they were for control and not for prohibition. That is to say, the vast majority is for the controlled use of genetic technology and against a fundamental ban. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Management at Surveys!]] In this context, I would like to draw attention to the initiatives of the Federal Minister, because I believe that the EU's decision to ban BT maize imports has been a real success experience. We have, of course, also been confronted with the labour market aspects of technology deployment in the course of this discussion. In the "WSI messages" you can find a very interesting article. The U.S. advantage on the labour market is reduced to the advantage in the biotech sector. It is made clear that such a technological advantage also constitutes a job advantage. For Germany, 40 000 jobs are calculated directly through the application of genetic technology by the year 2000. However, the reverse must also say that in the pharmaceutical industry a stagnation or rationalization of jobs will take place in conventional manufacturing processes. [[Abg. Aumayr: So what now? Are more or less jobs being created now?]] The genetic engineering will create new jobs, Mrs Colleague. [[Calls of the Abg. Aumayr and Haller.]] If you listened, you would recognize the difference, but in doing so, you are obviously a bit overwhelmed. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The majority of the population in Austria knows very well what the controlled use of genetic engineering means and how far-reaching this factor is. This responsibility has shaped the work of the Socialist Group in the Special Committee. This responsibility has moved us in the end to give our support to this compromise - it has clearly been referred to as such - in the final analysis. One point that is rather rarely addressed in the context of genetic engineering is the use of genetic analysis for certain purposes - perhaps also because we have drawn clear limits for this area in 1994 in the Genetic Engineering Act. Nevertheless, I would like to introduce a few passages from the magazine "Corso" - I quote - to you: "In the brochure, the Graz company Genetics Austria boasts close cooperation with university gene research centres worldwide. In fact, the offered personnel management program emerges as a simple standardized psychotest. The verbal description of the evaluation sounds like science lyrics from the gene research vocabulary. Genuine genetic tests for job applicants are prohibited in Austria. Genetics Austria could also be seen as a harmless attempt by a particularly smart consultant to go to the grey area of the currently authorized customer catch. - Grober Unfug? Or is there more behind it? Do we experience the first advances of the 'glass employee'? ... It is feared that "a disaster that would lead to even higher unemployment." ... For the individual job applicant, to whom a gene analysis could be used in the future, Dr. Zilian as an expert on the customs of the Austrian labour market only one council: 'Whoever really needs the job is to make the test and pray that he is good'. - End of the quote. If we deal with genetic engineering today, I do not want to hide this aspect. Our own past treatment shows us only too clearly where the genetically dismayed discussion about the "superlative race" has taken place. I therefore call on the representatives of all other parties, including the FPÖ, who usually do not listen to, but only in between, to join us in vehemently to oppose all the beginnings of such a despicable stigmatization and - just like we Social Democrats and Socialists - to allow a technology deployment only where he serves the people. However, we have decided to oppose all negative developments together. I refer only to the motion for a resolution tabled at the last committee meeting on democracy by the FPÖ. He was not compatible with the will of the signers of popular desire or with that of the promoters. - Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e6231	Mr Salzl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Rest of the time of your club: 7 minutes. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e6246	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In the course of my speech, I would like to take a brief look at the concept of democracy which my previous speaker referred to. [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: Have another concept of democracy!]] Ladies and gentlemen! If one compares today's debate with the debate in the Special Committee on the treatment of the genetic engineering people's desire, it is clear that the Federal Government never intended to meet the demands of the people's signatorys, either in real or even in close proximity, because none of the three main demands was actually implemented. Point 1 "No food from the gene laboratory" there is no concrete measure. This is not only the opinion of the opposition, but also the statement of the Proponent Committee. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, have made it clear to me that it is not enough. On point 2, the claim "No release of genetically modified organisms" has not even been implemented the required minimum standards. The party position was not adequately regulated, no two-way procedure was introduced and no balanced appointment of the Release Committees was carried out. The question of liability was also not adequately resolved. Point 3 "No patent to life" was simply transferred to the EU and finally interrupted there, because in Brussels, Austria represented a position that is diametrically opposed to the demands of the Signatories of the genetic engineering people's desire. Ladies and gentlemen! So instead of dealing with genetic engineering in a serious way during the time of popular desire, over half a year you have tried to bring the exponents and the 1.2 million signers around the nose and calm them down. Once again, the ÖVP has proved to be a braker and an obstacle and therefore unfortunately has been applied to almost all lines. The SPÖ has been drawn over the table against the initial announcements and has finally taken the decisions it has rejected a few weeks earlier. It has thus even counter-cared out promises made by Chancellors from this speaker's desk. But one thing has proved quite clearly in this context, namely that the statement that only the great coalition could solve major problems of this republic was simply and simply, Mr Leiner, you can come back to it afterwards - an electoral slogan and that the reality unfortunately looks quite different. [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: That's it!]] In fact, this coalition has been trapped in many areas and is unable to solve the problems in fact. It has shown this especially yesterday in the NATO question, and it has shown itself in the area of animal welfare, since the ÖVP is still the braker in the direction of a federal animal welfare law. The alleged Maker climate just doesn't take anything further with the brake bowl and step on the spot. Ladies and gentlemen! But one thing has also proved quite clearly: that direct democracy, the concerns and wishes of the citizens are not taken seriously by this government. It is true that both in the case of animal welfare, which has signed 460 000 people and in the case of women's desires, the wishes in the respective subcommittee have so far been shoved and nothing goes on. As mentioned, more than 1.2 million people who have signed this popular desire were led around at the nose when they desired genetic engineering. Ladies and gentlemen! Hopefully, these, in total, well over 2 million people's subscribers will present you with an account of how disgracefully and abusively you deal with direct democracy at the next election.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e6294	Mr Leiner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e6313	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to discuss a few things that may not have been discussed in this way. The word "democracy" is repeatedly placed in the room. I would like to say that Parliament simply decides by a majority. With regard to direct democracy, perhaps it would be better if we were to make it the same as Switzerland, which is also in the case of a People's Survey, an administrative clarification of the whole problem. This may have been an obstacle to our efforts. I would also like to draw attention to the remarks made by my friend Walter Schwimmer, who pointed out that the initiators of popular desire in particular have very vehemently advertised that they would not want to harm the medicine in any way. This is not true, however, because the Committee has clearly distanced itself from the popular desire and has said that the use of genetic engineering in medical research should not be made indiscriminately. I wonder what the 1.2 million signers would say. Already the day after the impressive and successful outcome of the genetic engineering people's desire, which has also received relatively high approval in our federal state of Tyrol, representatives of the genetic engineering people's desire have been given a totally surprising order with 38 detail points, instructions on the implementation of popular desire and minimum demand catalogues to the Parliament. - There the representatives of the women's people's desire were much more honest, because they have already presented this in detail. The requirements and detailed orders that have been made to us in relation to the genetic engineering people's desire had nothing but far away to do with the popular desire or, in part, nothing at all. And in view of that, the whole thing will be questionable for me, especially when one sees that the initiators are no longer identical to those who actually did the popular desire and were actually the wheel leaders and the spokespersons. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Langthaler.]] Of these initiators, only representatives of two organizations, the ARGE Creation Responsibility and the Austrian Mining Association, were present once, otherwise the talks were conducted by Global 2000 and by Greenpeace, who were not initiators. I just want to say that. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: Because only three people were allowed! They've made it up to each other!]] I would have expected the initiators to have been there all the time. Greenpeace and Global 2000 were not the initiators. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: These have been initiators! That's wrong!]] No, that's not wrong. Read it! All of this only gives the impression that the representatives of the genetic engineering people's desire have increasingly been removed from the interests of the 1.2 million Austrians, and instead of the initiatives, more and more fear-making has been done, just as you have suggested. I would also like to mention the criticism and point out that both the representatives of the opposition and the corresponding gentlemen and ladies of the people's desire have been excluded from the Committee's negotiations. For me, therefore, the question arises: On the basis of the ethical aspects, do the Signatories of the Genocidal People's Desire - I am deliberately not speaking here of the representatives - have reason to be dissatisfied with the outcome of the Special Committee? - That would be the real question. I am very proud that we, the Austrian People's Party, have just brought in two experts who were ethics, namely university professors Dr. Virt and Dr. Körtner. Both have accompanied the EIA and this Committee and have raised their ethical concerns. Both experts have clearly pointed out that - I quote - "but because of the limited nature of human knowledge and ability to act, it is never possible to act in the adoption of a 100% security. From the ethical point of view, it is necessary to ensure an optimal level of security according to the respective state of science and technology. However, a responsibilities ethics in the sense of Hans Jonas as a heuristic of fear tends to become aporetic, i.e. in an outrage to end in a senselessness. If one does not have any cause for concern at present, but can be prevented from action by potentially threatening risks, then one will eventually get into the situation of the incompetent." And that would have happened if we had complied with what was required of us. We have made the decisions according to our conscience and have accordingly brought them into a bill. The main focus was on social justice, the economic location and the scientific location of Austria. In the light of this ethical background, I believe that the measures adopted by the Special Committee in its report are very appropriate and, in part, they seem to me to be appropriate today for decision-making. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e6366	Mrs Ing. Langthaler referred to an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e6388	Mr President. Minister! I would like to correct my previous speaker, Mr Leiner. He said that Greenpeace and Global 2000 would not have been among the initiators of genetic engineering. - That's wrong. The proponents of the genetic engineering folk desire have been composed of the ARGE creative responsibility, from the Austrian organic farmers and from the eco-office. The Oeko-Office is an environmental roof association consisting of Greenpeace, Global 2000, WWF, the Association Four Pfoten, the Ecology Institute and some other associations, such as the VCÖ. All these associations, all of them environmental associations, have supported and supported the genetic engineering people's desire as promoters, and they have made up one another of them, who can take the places in the Committee for the deliberations, because unfortunately only three places were available and not - as it would have been necessary if you all wanted to involve - ten. It was no longer possible than these three places, and so I would like to correct you: Of course, those who carried the popular desire were the contributors, including those who spoke in the Committee on People's Desire. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e6418	The next speaker is Mrs Aumayr. Time left: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e6436	Mr President. Minister! I am apologizing on behalf of my group for the arrogant handling of the signatures of 1.2 million people by the ÖVP and by the SPÖ. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Koppler: My God!]] But I also promise on behalf of my group, on behalf of the Liberals, that we will continue to work without compromise for the use of direct democracy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Nothing, Mr Koppler, but nothing at all, is stronger than an idea whose time has come. And the time for direct democracy has come. But you haven't found out yet!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e6496	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Maier. The remaining time of your club is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e6515	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! The Sovereign, the People, is represented in this House by elected mandates of five parties. Let me keep this with all the clarity here. It is in no way right if speakers of the opposition parties, such as my predecessor, argue that direct democracy and 1.2 million signatures are dealt with arrogantly. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! It is basically about the policy in this House to make a decision. I am in no way relativizing the concerns of the advocates and representatives of popular desire. I just want to make one clear: It cannot be in the sense of our democracy to take on results of a popular desire 1 : 1. For example, I personally would resist, by all means, the fact that, if a people's desire to introduce the death penalty were to be imposed, we would be bound by such a decision in this House. [[Abg. Aumayr: This is a scandal to make such a comparison!]] Mrs Aumayr! [[Abg. Aumayr: This is indescribable!]] If you are talking about direct democracy and if I look at the policy of the Freedom Party, I have to say that this is a dangerous threat, and then we have to expect it. Let me keep this with all the clarity. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. That's a scandal!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The Special Committee has dealt with genetic engineering in great detail. Maybe another word for popular desire. Col. Silhavy has already briefly addressed why so many Austrians have signed this popular desire. I too have signed it, because I simply expected that in Austria it will raise awareness of these issues and make clear legal provisions, particularly in the area of liability. And we're also discussing this today. In my view, there are several reasons why this popular desire has been signed. On the one hand, it is certainly the lack of confidence of the Austrians in the food industry and, on the other, the lack of confidence in the European intensive farming industry, whose reputation among consumers has been particularly affected by the cases of bovine insanity or ewe and other scandals. The proponents of genetic engineering - let me retain this with all the clarity - believe and claim that all possible health and environmental risks are known and can also be avoided with due care. - This is an extremely risky thesis from the point of view of European consumer organisations, which will not be sustainable either. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! European and national policies must therefore show responsibility and provide a reasonable framework for biotechnology and genetic technology on the one hand, and on the other hand also set limits on the other. Genetic engineering is intended to help humanity and our environment, on the one hand, and on the other, economic development opportunities must be seen. Politically, it would be absolutely worrying not to make a clear political decision on the scope of this key technology - I believe it is a key technology. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We have discussed in detail in the Special Committee on Labelling, in particular liability, and I think it was a very high-level discussion. It was also tried to include all the groups, and I regret that both the representatives of the opposition parties and the advocates of this genetic engineering people have been partially removed from the committee and thus removed from the parliamentary debate. On behalf of my group, I should like to make a few points about what we have done in these negotiations and what we are going to do in the future. On the one hand: We want clear, comprehensive labelling schemes. 97 percent of Austrians require such labelling schemes. The informed consumer should be able to make his decision. The second finding: Marking without control is pointless. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In Austria we have an absolutely bad marking morale. I recall, for example, the investigations of the Chamber of Workers and the Consumer Information Association. In this area in particular, comprehensive control must be ensured. This, of course, also means the expansion of the research institutes. According to the commitment of Mrs. Federal Minister Prammer, the individual federal institutions will be expanded, there will be molecular-biological laboratories with at least two employees. This is intended to ensure that appropriate controls are carried out. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to refer briefly to the European framework in the third statement. Labelling in the national area is more or less pointless. What we need to achieve is clear, clear, comprehensive labelling at European level. The Novel Food Regulation, as it is currently present, is unsatisfying, and therefore the progress of our Federal Minister Prammer is absolutely to be supported in order to achieve improved regulations. Austria - I now come to the fourth conclusion - can continue to play an absolute pioneering role in this area. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We are currently playing this pioneering role. I just remember the discussion about the genetically modified maize. Austrian concerns have been taken into account yesterday's decision. I should also like to take a very brief look at the statement by Mr Bartenstein, the Federal Minister, who pointed out how obscene the rules of commitology are, namely these strange committees, which decide whether or not a regulation in Europe will become standard. There are already reform approaches, including at European level. It is urgently necessary - it is written - to simplify the decisions of the Committee and to make the Committee more transparent, since even committee professionals in Brussels sometimes have difficulty in looking through the thickness of the Committee. In this context, for example, it is important to call for the Type 3a Regulation Committee to be abolished, since it is completely unnecessary in relation to the administrative committees in particular. And exactly such a committee will decide whether Austria will maintain this ban on genetically modified maize. In this Environment Council, which has to decide on it, Austria is appointed by Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein. Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein has to represent the position of our Minister for Consumer Protection, because she is the competent minister. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! It is precisely in this area that we see how meaningful a cooperation is, how necessary a interaction between the various ministries is. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We are also discussing liability provisions today. It is about the legalisation of modern technologies. Let me stick to this: There is no alternative to a legal regime. However, we can discuss the form in which this right is to be formed. It is about resisting the risks posed by a risk technology. Genetic engineering remains a risk technology, and modern risk law, contrary to traditional safety law, requires primarily the abandonment of a safety concept in classical police law. We need a system of liability for danger. The risk liability is considered by many lawyers as a promising and appropriate principle for dealing with technical risks. We shall vote on this today. On behalf of my group, I can invite you to vote. I know exactly that I will not be able to convince the opposition. However, we will make this decision in the consciousness of improving the legal position for Austrian consumers.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e6585	Next speaker is Mrs Haidlmayr. The remaining time of your club is 6 minutes. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e6603	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to take a brief look at Mrs. Pittermann's comments on genetic medicine. It is undisputed that significant progress has been made in the field of genetic medicine. For example, if we had known before, what opportunities there are for bleeding, then probably not so many bleeding people would have died of HIV-infected blood. I do not want to say at all that there is good and important success in the field of genetic medicine. But you must also remember that genetic medicine is the area of medicine that puts very much pressure on people, because you want to achieve nothing but a suffering-free society, a society without disease. Ladies and gentlemen! We will not achieve that, and we should not. I think it is very important that all people - no matter what disability and which diseases - have a place and a right of life in our society. It is already so far that prenatal diagnostics are used to put pressure on mothers and fathers if there is a risk that a disabled child could be born. This moves far beyond the framework that is meaningful and useful. Ladies and gentlemen! You must not forget one thing either: You know that cloning is no longer an area that would not be transferable to humans. Researchers have long admitted that people too can be cloned. I know that there are countries that are already working in this direction and that countries are creating spare parts camps of human organs. These are the negative effects of genetic medicine. It simply must not come to such a level that today people are doubled, so they are cloned. It must also not be possible for genes to be exchanged, to be able to order at some point on the basis of a catalogue, which benefits and disadvantages a child should have and which may be excluded from a child's negative factors. We must not let it come to that. Because if we came to that point, we would be in danger of certain groups of people being selected, and one would agree on the right of life for them. Ladies and gentlemen! It is very important that there are clear limits in the field of genetic medicine. However, these boundaries are currently being revised by piece, and they have long threatened very many people in Austria - and not only in Austria. The argument that genetic medicine should be allowed in Austria is not a real argument, because it was a very large number of jobs. If you had invested only a fraction of the financial resources you used in genetic medicine in environmental medicine, then there would probably be no longer a lot of diseases that exist with us today, or certain risk groups might no longer occur, because we had a better environment and because we could find out which diseases occur in certain regions. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] Dedicating the money, investing it in environmental medicine, then you will see that we can achieve very great successes! The genetic medicine is not the all-healing medicine, but I think environmental medicine should be in the foreground. A human life must also be ensured for people in Austria. The limits of genetic medicine must not be further eroded! People must not be made experimental objects! I think that goes beyond the humanitarian objectives. Furthermore, the ethical requirements in genetic medicine are by far no longer fulfilled, although it was actually appropriate to meet them. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e6662	Mrs. Mag. has now been reported to speak. Prammer. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e6680	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I have once again spoken, because some Members have still raised very specific questions to me, which I would like to answer. But one thing ahead: Mrs Haidlmayr has just mentioned the negative forecasts or possibilities of genetic medicine. - I think Austria can be very proud of having a very clear, comprehensive law, which means that this very scenario cannot occur in Austria. However, we must not rest on it, but also in this area, as I believe, it is necessary to think internationally. This also means to exercise care - not only in Austria, but also, of course, across borders. Mrs Moser referred to the scientific committees and specifically to the occupation of the scientific committees. I would like to say once again that the functions of the Scientific Committees are clearly defined in the Genetics Act. They are a consultative body, a body which can and must express itself, deliver opinions and, as such, must also take part in scientific committees. As a responsible minister, it remains natural for me, as in the past, even in the future, of course other experts, other scientists, to consult other scientists, to create expertise and to order studies. This has also happened in the past in order to achieve a balance, and of course this should also be so in the future. It is important that many in research also have the opportunity to actually conduct research. As far as labelling is concerned, I would like to make it clear that nothing is open. Austria has fulfilled the tasks it has under the Genetic Engineering Act, but also the tasks derived from Austria from the field of the European Union. What is in place is the regulation at European level. This has to be stressed - I have already said this in my first contribution - in the interests of many, in the interests of consumers, but also in the interests of the economy. On the question of Mrs Mother's positive marking or negative marking, as I would like to refer to it now, and on the state of the matter. Yesterday, the Code Commission adopted the standards on genetic engineering. The call will take place in May. What I want to do next as a Minister for Consumer Protection is to start negotiations with the Minister for Economic Affairs under the Good Quality Seal Act on a corresponding seal of quality, because there is a great need and great desire for it. The foundation stone is laid, we have the standards and we know how to define them in Austria on the basis of the current state of knowledge. All of this is expected to achieve a higher level of liability in the future. Ladies and gentlemen! There has been a great deal of discussion in this House today about a balance of interests. The discussion has shown that the interests, opinions and opinions are very different, particularly in the field of genetic engineering. They are different between the parties and they are different within the parties. It is all the more important and necessary today to find a positive law that will have a positive effect on Austria, but in the future, of course, to do what I have already mentioned today, namely to place the information at the top and the top, to develop control, to have the control instrument at hand, and finally, of course, to allow the highest transparency to be exercised in all the decisions that are in place. It is important that the population knows what it is all about. Transparency can also create confidence. For only where confidence can be created can it be possible that products which have scientific knowledge be accepted. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Without this acceptance, genetic engineering or any other technology has no guarantee - not in Austria, not in Europe or worldwide. But that's what we want. We want a technological progress based on security and trust, and above all always involving the population.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e6738	Thank you very much, Mrs. Federal Minister. Mr Schrefel. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Rest of the time of your club: 5 minutes. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e6760	High house! Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A new Austrian study has shown that the Austrians present themselves as a tear-off when it comes to scientific and technical progress. Thus, more than half of the Austrians are in favour of furthering scientific progress in order to be able to overcome today's problems with the help of science, but at the same time almost nine out of ten people signed that it is not possible to do everything possible. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] The attitude of the respondents is therefore highly inconspicuous. You like to think in this relationship in categories like "a little pregnant". Excessed hopes are often faced with exaggerated fears. Ladies and gentlemen! Genetic engineering is such a controversial area. Similar to that in Germany and Switzerland, the discussion on biotechnology and genetic technology in agriculture and food has led to a strong polarization and ultimately to the genetic engineering people's desire. It is very difficult for the country to engage in physical conflicts in one of the most fascinating and controversial areas of science. Like any other technology, biotechnology and genetic technology have both opportunities and dangers. With the rules initiated by the Special Committee, we have set up a framework in Austria which will enable the use of biotechnology and genetic technology to be successful and responsible towards people and the environment. The amendments to the Genetics Act, which we will decide today, ensure compliance with the highest possible safety requirements, which largely exclude the risks of the people's desire, which any new technology - including this - brings with it. Former science minister Hans Tuppy, an internationally recognized biochemist, has recently tried to highlight the relationships that are often hidden in a remarkable interview with the magazine "Conturen". He says, for example, that there is no such thing as the much-quoted ecological balance in the sense of static balance, which is constantly spoken of. Instead, ecology has been subject to constant change. Fauna and flora change quite amazingly year after year. Hundreds of new species come into existence. The static balance - one could also say "stilstand" - is the point at which developments end. We wouldn't have become and stayed human - says Tuppy - if we hadn't changed all the time. But that means that we must set limits, but we must also exceed them. How big these steps are to be and should be - this assessment is very difficult. In the plant sector, for example, genetics seems to be a small step compared to what has been done through breeding in the course of human history. All our crops have already been tailored to our needs through breeding and selections, that is, to a large extent people have been changed. What is today called "natural nature" is still cultivated nature - far away from what was given in the beginning. It sounds that it is not only about preservation, but also about the responsible design of creation. Economic and social barriers to genetic engineering do not make sense because we need to open up new branches of our working life. I also understand very well - there is nothing against it - that groups of farmers are against genetic engineering because they have found niches in organic farming that are ideal and economically important. In the same way, it must be accepted that agriculture as a whole cannot be converted to organic farming. To intervene taxly, but not to prevent, is the task of politics. Political action is necessary in order to promote positive developments, but others are pushed back. The outcome of the Special Committee, ladies and gentlemen, shows that responsible policy cannot be taken together by the Boulevard press and by the populism of the eco-opposition. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e6818	The next speaker is Mrs Aumayr. Rest of the time of your club: 1 minute. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e6836	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Maier. By your explanations and your submission, you have shown how you actually value these 1.2 million signatures. You set 1.2 million signatures against the use of genetic engineering with signatures for the introduction of the death penalty, Mr Maier! That's what you did from the pult. This is not only arrogance, Mr Maier, but it is a scandal! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If you have character, Mr Maier, you will apologise to these 1.2 million people!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e6870	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Maier. Time left: 1 minute. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e6888	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I have character, and I must reply to your comments, Mrs Aumayr. - Let me hold you. Sovereign is the people - represented in this House by elected mandates of five parties, but not by representatives of a popular desire. [[Abg. Aumayr: Aha! That's it!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] With this we do not relativize the concerns of this popular desire, I would like to say that with all the clarity. But the responsibility lies here in the house, Mrs. Aumayr. If I have spoken about the fact that we are observing direct democracy very carefully, I mean that we are doing so especially when the Freedom Party comes with content. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Sit down! Five! Not enough!]] For one thing I say to you very well: Your legal policy is as follows: "Incarcerated and punished!"and in women's policy it says: "Women back to the stove!" [[Abg. May. Stadler: Where did you do the Constitutional Law Review?]] [[Further ongoing calls to the liberals.]] The Social Democratic Party - let me say this clearly - will always resist such projects, even if they are brought to this House by means of direct democracy.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e6974	No one is reporting on this. That concludes the debate. There is no final word from the rapporteur. We are entering the voting procedure, and I therefore ask the honourable Members to take their place. - I also ask the staff to leave the courses between the seats, and the Members of Parliament to stop talking to the staff. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we are voting on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report 1111 to the Annex 1 on the establishment of an Austrian Monitoring Committee for the evaluation of the impact of the Directive on the protection of biotechnological inventions. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. - This is the majority. Accepted. (E 107.) We shall also vote on the resolution on the protection of sensitive areas annexed to the Committee's report 1111. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. - This is the majority. Accepted. (E 108.) We shall also vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1112 of the Supplements. The Members of Parliament have tabled a supplementary or amendment request for smoke-callat, grade welfare and comrades. There is also a request from Mr Salzl for a separate vote. I will therefore be able to vote first of all on the parts affected by the request for a separate vote, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, as amended by the Committee's report, each taking into account the supplementary or amendment tabled. We shall be voting separately on paragraph 1 of the Committee's report, as amended by the amendment tabled by Mr Rauch-Kallat, Mr Gradwohl and Mr Comrades. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. - This is the majority. Accepted. In line with the request for a separate vote on paragraph 6 (43 paragraph). 1 and 2 in the version of the amendment tabled by Mr Rauch-Kallat, Mr Gradwelt and Mr Comrades. In the event of your consent, I ask you for a sign to be given. - This is the majority. Accepted. We shall also proceed to a separate vote on paragraph 14 as amended by the Committee's report. In the event of your consent, I ask you for a sign to be given. - This is the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on paragraph 15 (100c) and 100d as amended by the Committee's report. In the event of your consent, I ask you for a sign to be given. - This, too, is the majority. Accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report, taking account of the amendment or amendment tabled by the rapporteurs, Mr Rauch-Kallat, Mr Gradwelt and Mr Comrades. In the event of your consent, I ask you for a sign to be given. - This is the majority. Accepted. We shall therefore come to the third reading immediately. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who would like to give their third-reading approval to this draft law. - This is the majority. The draft law was therefore adopted at third reading. 3rd. Point Report of the Equal Treatment Committee on Women's Demand (716/1113 of Supplements) 4. Point Report and request of the Equal Treatment Committee on the draft Constitutional Act amending the Federal Constitutional Act (B-VG) (1114 of the Supplements) 5. Point Report and request of the Equal Treatment Committee on the draft federal law amending the Constitutional Labour Act (1115 of the Supplements) 6. Point Report and request of the Equal Treatment Committee on the draft federal law amending the Parental Protection Act 1979 and the Parental Vacation Act (1116 of the Supplements) 7. Point Report by the Committee on Equal Opportunities on Amendment No 545/A by Mr Mag. Dr. Heide Schmidt and Comrades concerning a Federal Constitutional Act amending the B-VG (1117 of the Supplements) 8. Point Report by the Committee on Equal Opportunities on the motion for a resolution 330/A (E) by Mr Edith Haller and Mr Comrades on women's employment, child training and women's pensions (1118 of the supplements) 9. Point Report by the Committee on Equal Opportunities on Amendment 370/A by Mr Mag. Doris Kammerlander and Comrades concerning a Federal Constitutional Act amending the Federal Constitutional Act as amended by 1929 (1119 of the Supplements) 10. Point Report by the Committee on Equal Opportunities on Amendment 462/A (E) by Mr Edith Haller and Mr Comrades on the first measures to implement the women's desire for the right of retirement (1120 of the supplements) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report by the Committee on Equal Opportunities on Amendment 463/A (E) by Mr Edith Haller and Mr Comrades on the first measures to implement the women's desire to improve the compatibility of work and family (1121 of the supplements) 12. Point Report by the Committee on Equal Opportunities on motion for a resolution (Doc. Doris Kammerlander and comrades on a reporting obligation for all establishments on equal treatment for women and men and on the promotion of women and the sanctioning of infringement of this duty by non-respect of public procurement and the award of public support (1122 of the supplements) 13. Point Report by the Equal Treatment Committee on Request 503/A by Mr Karl Oellinger and Mr Comrades concerning a Federal Act amending the unemployment insurance law, the Carenz Money Act, the Parent Care Leave Act and the Karenz leave grant law (1123 of the Supplements) 14. Point Report by the Committee on Equal Opportunities on Amendment No 663/A by Mr Mag. Doris Kammerlander and Comrades concerning a federal law amending the Federal Procurement Act 1997 (1124 of the Supplements) 15. Point Report by the Committee on Equal Opportunities on Amendment No 688/A by Mr Mag. Dr. Heide Schmidt and Comrades concerning a federal law amending the Mother Protection Act 1979 (1125 of the Supplements) 16. Point Report by the Committee on Equal Opportunities on Amendment No 687/A (E) by Mr Mag. Dr. Heide Schmidt and comrades on re-evaluation of the work (1126 of the supplements) 17. Point Report by the Committee on Equal Opportunities on Amendment 739/A (E) by Mrs Maria Schaffenrath and others on tax deductibility of child care costs (1127 of the supplements) 18. Point Report by the Committee on Equal Opportunities on Amendment 724/A (E) by Mrs Maria Schaffenrath and others on increased tax deductibility of farm kindergartens (1128 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e7284	We come to points 3 to 18 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. The rapporteur on all these points is Mrs Silhavy. In order to present a print error correction to the Committee's written report 1115 of the Supplements, I shall give the floor to it. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e7302	High house! In the Committee's report, which is in writing, 1115 of the Supplements, I would like to point out that: In § 92 para. 1, second sentence, the point after the word "setting practice" must be replaced by an suffix. On behalf of the Equal Treatment Committee, I therefore propose that the National Council give constitutional approval to the draft law in 1115 of the supplements, taking into account the pressure error correction I have just presented.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e7326	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your comments. Mrs Haller is now the first speaker to speak. A voluntary time limit of 12 minutes is shown. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e7348	Mr President. My women Federal ministers! High house! "Ana hot imma des Bummerl" is a famous Vienna song. The Austrian women - and thus the interested ones - have long been known who has the Bummerl in Austria, and this was clear to us before the women's popular desire. After 20-year-old but rather unsuccessful Austrian women's policy, it became apparent that it has become more and more entrenched. It has, however, contributed at least to a certain awareness in the multi-layered field of women's issues, and women's desire is therefore to be seen as a logical consequence. Most of the Signatories have probably not read exactly the points they require. In my opinion, however, Austrian women simply do not want to accept any further improvements in their economic situation, in terms of their position on the labour market and in terms of the opportunities for childcare, even worsening in some areas. From a liberal point of view, it is sad and embarrassing that no concrete proposals for improvement can be made to these 645,000 Signatories. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: What did you do for it?]] It's a fact: In this Austrian coalition government, nothing more goes! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And it is just as sad and embarrassing, Mrs Federal Minister, that you want to postpone the blame for this failure of the Austrian government of the ÖVP, even the conservative majority in this Parliament, while you cannot conceal that you yourself are unable to put women's political interests into your own party. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: That means yours too!]] [[Call:This is just as the fault of the SPÖ]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] For, Mrs Federal Minister, where was your vote in the three savings packages, which did not improve the situation of women, but even worsened seriously? Where was your voice, Mrs. Federal Minister, when your party colleague Parnigoni attacked his party colleague Hagenhofer? Where was your voice, Mrs Federal Minister, when a Carinthian councillor of your group was cast by his own colleagues? And where was your voice, Mrs. Federal Minister, in the matter of Scholten/Seitz? It is no longer a secret that, shortly before the government of the then Federal Minister Scholten soon took up a post award contrary to the law of equal treatment, and "at random" was the victim of the brother-in-law of the mayor of Vienna Häupl Already a little macaber, I must say. [[Call out to the liberals: such a coincidence!]] Finally, the Equal Treatment Commission found that this order was made on the basis of inaccurate considerations and that the law was also violated. Although there have been five meetings of a tender commission - the "natural" of four gentlemen - it has come to an order contrary to the equal treatment law. What can the discriminated candidate do about it? It has no retroactive claim to this function. Well, she can claim some kind of pain money. But this pain money is not paid by the causer, Federal Minister Scholten, no: That's what the federal government pays, it pays the taxpayers! Mr. and Mrs. Österreicher will thank you very much for this. We will also be grateful for your colleague, Minister One, having completely cleaned himself up in the course of a reply to this question from my colleague Krüger. If you, Mrs Bundesminister, are phased through the media today on non-binding women's promotion plans and on more transparency in the post-contracting of posts, then this is somehow just toothless matter, empty speech. It turned out. That is why we make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] That's what we're asking! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We want laws adopted in this area to have teeth too, that they are not just alibi treatments. And that is why, Mrs Federal Minister, you will not receive our approval of the proposed government proposal for a constitutional change. That's just an alibi deal again! Completely toothless! When I think about the differences that have existed on their own, that one only wishes to confess to actual equality, but not to commit itself to it, I must say: That's very sad! Even an expert of the initiators of the women's people's desire has given us the right to freedom and has confirmed that the current wording in the Federal Constitutional Act, Article 7, would have sufficed. Consequently, the previous discrimination in the women's field, which was conducted by SPÖ and ÖVP, was unconstitutional. The government parties have thus far pursued unconstitutional women's policy! And you can't cheat on that with such a change! Mrs. Federal Minister! We liberals, however, also stand for efficiency in the promotion of women, in terms of the fact that we want to put the problem at the root of the problem. We are very disappointed that we did not even talk about our proposal. It has been discussed on our part that the risk arising from the employment of women from the employment of women is at least partially paid off, so that a shift from passive to active labour market policy takes place. You didn't even talk about it! We are also disappointed, Mrs Federal Minister, that only special hardships are to be checked in the area of the calculation of income in the case of emergency aid. We are in favour - and this is because it is not only a care, it is also an insurance benefit - that this benefit is paid at least up to the level of the minimum of existence. We are in favour of training and social protection for daymothers and dayfathers. This is a long-standing demand from us liberals! We, too, Mrs Federal Minister, are still standing for the childcare check - you can find some dirty formulations against it, as many as you want. It is the fact that the childcare check gave Austrian women freedom of choice in childcare - and we stand by it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In fact, women could buy and go to work, so to speak, or they would finally receive a corresponding salary for self-care - should they prefer such care - and thus also be able to purchase pension insurance periods. To point 8: The legally guaranteed right to part-time work for parents until the child's entry into school would be very desirable - even from my point of view as a family spokesperson for the liberals - but the Austrian economy is simply too small to be able to impose such a provision. Such a scheme would only be feasible from a certain size of operations of about 50 or 100 employees, as is the case in France, for example. We liberals are also entitled to a basic pension, but we want children's education and care periods to be not only pensionable but also pensionable. We've been calling for that for many years. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Of course, it would also be necessary to increase the milky basis in this area at last. However, we also want women who continue to see their jobs at home in consultation with their partners, even if they already have children in school, to have a choice, namely those who have a pension split with their partners or who are paying a pension contribution which should be at a minimum of 700 s or 5 percent of the net income. However, we also stand for the service check, which the ÖVP women also requested, but then they withdrew this request. We still stand by it and would wish that there were aspirations in this direction. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! We have been involved for a relatively long time, over half a year, in subcommittees and in the Committee on Women's Rights and the corresponding requests. To conclude: I think that women's desire is good, and this is also the opinion of my party, because it has led to a thematicisation of a number of important issues. I hope that the debate on this is not over. But it would have been better, and it would have been better, especially for the political climate, if all parties represented here in Parliament had been included in the preliminary discussions and if the demands had been less overburdened and thus had more opportunities for implementation.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e7481	The motion for a resolution which has just been read is properly tabled, duly supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Hlavac. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e7500	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to hide that I am not satisfied with the outcome that we can present today. There are some central demands not enforceable, there is currently no majority in this House. This includes some of the old demands of SPÖ. I only mention the retention period which is intended to give a guarantee that, if the woman returns from her leave, she will be able to retain her job for half a year, part-time work for people with care responsibilities, return to full-time work, improve the rights of the equal treatment lawyer and improve the situation of single parents, which will result in a karenz leave. Unfortunately, there is no majority for the implementation of these points at the moment. Mrs Dohnal, too, has fought very much for the realization of these demands, but, unfortunately, implementation was not possible at the time. I have hoped that, under the pressure of 650 000 signatures, the climate will be prepared, which will enable these long-term demands to be carried out, but it is not possible at the moment, as has been said. I would like to stress that the economy is also required to meet here, to show more flexibility and willingness. I think that women are very valuable workers, and there must be the opportunity for them to link up work and family. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs Haller has said that we have pursued a missing policy in the area of women. I do not now have the time to deal with everything, I would just like to mention what has happened in the years since 1970, since we held the main responsibility. It has been decided on the reform of family law, the time-limit, and a great deal has been done in the field of education policy. There has been an educational explosion, and this educational explosion is inseparably linked to the name of Firnberg, which the universities have opened to women. That was a really great achievement. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But there are also recent examples: We have passed a law to protect against violence, which contains the right of directions and improves the situation of vulnerable family members. We have decided on the regionalisation of the equal treatment prosecution, i.e. a whole series of steps. As I said, I cannot do everything in the short time available to me, but there is continuous progress in the area of women's policy. I would also like to say that I do not see it in such a way that we do not implement anything now. In the field of pension reform, we have achieved a significant improvement for small employees. This has also been a long-standing demand, and I am convinced that the signatures for women's desire have also contributed to the fact that we have now been able to enforce it. This is a truly important international achievement, because the possibility for people - especially women - who work very briefly was created to continue social insurance. And this is very important for women in particular. I would also like to mention the 600 million schilling for childcare. The key to this is the directives under which they are promoted. In fact, the creation of childcare facilities is a matter for the countries, and it does not change anything, but it is important what we are promoting and in which areas we are promoting. The fact that the directives now call for the promotion of childcare facilities for children by the third year of life and for children at school is an important step forward. I really think it is important that mothers can be sure that their children are well cared for while they are working. Now to the Constitutional Provision: One of them says it's an eye-removing. Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by saying that it is a matter of public policy. So there are very different interpretations here. We have originally provided for a different wording, I would like to admit it; the corresponding proposal remains in the Constitutional Committee. However, I think that it is a signal that we have achieved here, and it will, above all, come to fruition. The practice will show that our members of the government - we can guarantee - will ensure that there will be measures by the state for women. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Our aim is to improve the position of women in society and in the working world. It is about the compatibility of work and family, but it is also about the position of women in the working world and in society that do not have a family. Whether women have children or not, it is always at their disadvantage. They shall either be accused of having children and of not being able to use them; or they shall be accused of having no children. Women, even if older, are discriminated against in their professional lives. This is therefore a very crucial and important question for us. I would also like to call for family law reform at this point. There is a draft in the Ministry of Justice, and I think it is important that we can finally get it into Parliament and discuss it. It is a matter of establishing a partnership in the family, i.e. sharing family work and professional work. It is about the fact that non-working wives receive monetary support and are not only fed off with naturals, as the current legal situation provides and, unfortunately, is also the practice in some cases. We are also concerned that, in the case of cooperation in the holding of the spouse, it is guaranteed that he will receive a collective contract wage and is socially insured. I think these are important points, whose implementation must be of course, and therefore I really ask that this proposal finally come into the house so that we can finally decide on it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Above all, we want to maintain those demands that we have made. I repeat her again: We are concerned with the compatibility of work and family. We are concerned that women who go to Karenz also have the guarantee that when they come back, their job is still there. This is a very essential question for women, and it is also an important social policy question to guarantee women that, when they have children, they do not suffer any disadvantages. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We are also concerned with the right to part-time work for people with care obligations. That too is a central requirement. There is this need, we all know, that is something that is very much required. Unfortunately, this is often only used by women, but this could also be possible and interesting for men. It is also important that a person who takes care of him retains the connection to his profession. We know how difficult it is for re-entry women to get a job again, especially at the same level. Most of the time, you have to count on losses. This is also something we demand: the possibility of taking part-time work into account when it requires care. The important thing is the right of return to the old job. We continue to raise demands in connection with the leave for single parents. We shall also make the appropriate proposals for the initiative. I believe that they have even been brought into the Bureau. In any case, we signed them because these demands continue to exist for us and are not from the table. These women's problems need to be solved. For us, the negotiations have not ended with the fact that there is a final report. For us, the discussion will continue. I promise that we will work to meet these demands for women.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e7598	Mrs. Mag. has been reported to speak. Prammer. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e7613	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It is a bit strange for Mrs Haller to say at the beginning of her remarks that it has not been implemented, and at the end of her remarks, she is speaking of overburdened demands. If we have talked about 11 points of a women's popular desire, or have we talked about other things, I wonder today in retrospect, after these seven months. In the case of women's people's desire, unlike the genetic engineering people's desire, it is indeed so that we have to say here today that we still owe women a lot again. Nevertheless, I do not think I can also point out that in this one year too many things could be realized, many of which we would hardly even have dared to dream of for many years. In this context, the insurance obligation and the possibility of insurance for minor employees should be mentioned. It is something new and essential - only as an additional example - that childcare facilities are also strongly supported by the federal authorities, although they are not financially responsible. I am saving myself the list of the many points that could also be mentioned here. But there are three reasons why I still want to talk about positive results. First: Interim steps are essential and important. It is necessary that we also decide on intermediate steps - in the sense of women and in the sense also the demands of women's people's desire. I think these can be made today, and these have also been made in recent months. Secondly, The life situation of women, the reality they experience every day, their environment, their desires, their expectations for society, all of this is at the heart of a discussion as intensive as never before, I say. It is not so easy today to look beyond women's desires to ignore and pass away from women's demands. Women's policy and women's demands have become the subject of daily policy and day-to-day events. That's new and essential. We have often stood in the corner with our themes. That, I think, is a very essential thing that this women's desire has also brought. The third point I would like to make is that: Today and also in recent months, no step has been taken in the wrong direction. [[Abg. May. Stoisits: That would be even more beautiful!]] [[Abg. May. Kammerlander: Sensational!]] The probability that steps will be taken in the wrong direction... [[Further calls to the Liberal Forum and the Greens.]] I'll tell you. Have you heard Mrs Haller with her demands? Compare these demands with those of the women's people's desire! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I didn't read about a babysitting check in the punctures of the women's people's desire. [[Further call of the Abg. May. Kammerlander.]] I have not read about the tax deduction of the service check in the demands of the women's people's desire. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: But this is a weak argument, Mrs. Minister!]] And it is important and essential to recognize what women's policy is in the area here, how the political parties take up women's policy and how it should go in the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[New call of the abg. May. Kammerlander.]] Mrs Kammerlander! You know, I think, already the majority in this House. There are enough points of women's popular desire to which there is not even a uniform opinion in the opposition parties. Don't we pretend we're talking to a tongue all the time! Let's not mind the women: There are very different world views in this area and very different goals with which policy is made. [[Abg. May. Kammerlander: But we are not in an opposition coalition! We are three different parties, Mrs Minister! Take note of this!]] [[Abg. May. Stoisits: We do not have to implement a government agreement!]] Women want the compatibility of work and family. Women want to realize themselves. They want opportunities, they want ascent opportunities, and they need to promote them. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Further calls to the Greens.]] To date, Mrs Haller has not understood the difference between discrimination and equality and the promotion of women. This has not been understood. [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] Women must be encouraged by the time they are actually equal. This is something that the state has to confess. It would have been very nice, and we would not have liked to see a stone from the crown, either, or you, as a member of the government, I know that this is not for me, to standardise a corresponding constitutional provision, so that the confession and the mandate to promote women are in the Constitution. [[Abg. May. Fekter: You wanted to have the women's promotion out there! Your group has wanted this to happen.]] Mrs Fekter! But they were already there. It's very easy, we can fix this quickly. Mrs Fekter, we can simply correct this. We can take this one step further to actually see here the task of the federal government in the Constitution, if you want it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] All of you can still negotiate this further step today and here. Then the liberal color can confess, then all the color can confess, including the SPÖ, including my party. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Further calls to the liberals and the Greens.]] I'd like to say something: Tax benefits for women were demanded when they had children. Woman as the risk in this society was meant. It hurts at the end of the 20th century. ==References====External links== In the 19th century, women's mouths also say that women are a risk. It hurts to have to listen to this. No matter who - women are no risk. It is also regrettable that women's promotion must be carried out and women's promotion plans must be drawn up so that farms finally come to the idea that it is something positive when women have appropriate place in the enterprise and in society. I think it is important for us today and in the future to pursue these expectations of women. Childcare check is not the answer. Not at all! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We need a comprehensive network of childcare facilities. No one comes up with the idea of privatising the streets so that everyone can build their own road, where they need it right now. It is a matter of course that the State provides infrastructure to which one wants and needs to rely, and that includes childcare facilities. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Part-time work - a very important issue. Part-time work can also be dangerous for women, can also be a dead end. However, we need the right to part-time for women, because today we have the situation of being able to offer financial support in the form of part-time leave, but it cannot be accepted by anyone because companies that do not get into it. For this reason, it is necessary to have a right to part-time work and to return to full-time work if the children are again larger and out of the question. [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! There is still a lot to be said about what to do in terms of women and women's promotion, women's participation, women's opportunities in society. It is up to all of us not to make mutual debt allocations, but to start work and work intensively and quickly - in the sense of women and in the sense of their future. When I look at my 17-year-old daughter, I want her not to have to fight for the same chances as her brother, although as my daughter she is certainly in a much better situation than a girl in another population group. However, this is not a matter of course - from school to professional activity to pension. We must also deal with the issue of self-employed pensions. As is the case with the independent pension scheme, I have experienced here in this house. Soon it is said that we are confessing self-sufficiency. In the subcommittee we then discussed this and have come to the conclusion that everyone understands something else. There are five different models. The work ahead of us now must be to bring the models together to the best possible compromise. It is known that no party here in this House has a 50 percent majority in order to decide on its own model. We need viable compromises in the sense of women. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! There's a lot to be done. We should do it together, especially because women cannot wait for a long time because they need this implementation today and not tomorrow.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e7799	Thank you very much, Mrs. Federal Minister. Mrs Gehrer has also been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e7818	Mr President. High house!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e7844	Excuse me, may I interrupt you? Mrs Bundesminister's word is fully in accordance with the rules of business. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e7866	Mr President. High house! I believe that the debate on women's desire is a very important discussion: a discussion, in which future objectives are formulated, will be decided on current measures and within which we can discuss important issues, concerns for women together. I believe that this debate will show the extent to which men are willing to work for women to what extent these concerns are not just for women. I think it is very important that men deal with these concerns that men make their contributions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The women's desire has brought important demands. It was a contribution to a broad awareness-building, to a broad discussion - yes it is a contribution to a broad discussion. And I believe that today, with the 12 decisions, very many important points will be implemented and implemented. But it is just as it is with every concern in democracy: It should all be discussed objectively and rationally, everything must be argued, and it must also be found a majority for everything. Today we will vote on 12 proposals for which a majority has been found in this House - this is a step forward. Many more steps will be necessary. I am particularly concerned that women in the Federal Government are a very strong axis, that women in the Federal Government, in this coalition, are very strong and very determined to work together. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: Would you have said that in committee too?]] We have put in place measures in each ministry to better implement the concerns of women and girls. Just yesterday's debate in the government showed how strong the National Action Plan is the equality of women's measures for women. In the National Action Plan there is the Pillar 4: Equal opportunities. Guideline 16 sets out nine concrete measures to increase the employment of women, adopted and implemented. In Guideline 17, provision of supply facilities... [[Abg. May. Kammerlander: That's all there already! You've cut everything short with your savings package!]] [[Call the ÖVP: Quiet! Listen!]] In a democracy, it is a democratic process that needs to find a majority of proposals. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Novotny.]] Guideline 17, providing care facilities, makes it quite clear that 18 000 childcare places are created in addition to the creation of day-parents' professional image to provide support for farm kindergartens. I therefore believe that these, like many other measures in the National Action Plan, clearly show that the government takes account of and implements legitimate demands of women in all areas. [[Abg. May. Kammerlander: And what have you done in the last three years? You've been cut short and reduced! You've done it!]] For everything, a majority must be found in a democracy! Two further examples show that, especially in the Ministry of Education, which has to look into the future, which has to set the course for the future, appropriate measures have been developed and implemented for three years - I only recall the 2000 Action Plan. With regard to this action plan, I have had a very concrete, very constructive discussion with the women's people's representatives. We have adopted 99 measures. These measures were started last year. We've made a wall newspaper, we've compiled an info sheet, a brochure. One third of the measures have already been implemented. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Novotny.]] [[Abg. Schaffenrath: What, Mrs. Minister? Which one did you implement?]] The other measures are being worked on. And I cannot spare you, since so many unbelievers are inside here, to mention some of these measures. Measures from the 2000 Action Plan: the @fem-training-net@, a COMENIUS project, a school for girls and boys: "Share equality" - a transnational training event, the project "Equal Opportunities COMENIUS", days of girls in the BIZ, where I myself go - we have already made seven such events -, action students ask technical women, workshop for students for unusual professions, seminar educational consultants, focusses girl promotion, promotion of girl and women projects for professional orientation, action girl-friendly HTL, Schnupper courses in workshops, computer events for students, video: Girls in technical professions, Schrüpperprogramm für Maturantinnen in Technik, the project "Die Technikrinin" a three-day event -, an action "Ecotechnics and Environmental Education" especially for girls and young women. [[Abg. May. Kammerlander: To list that! You won't be red at all, Mrs. Minister!]] We have an information event for girls at technical colleges, an Internet seminar for teachers, the action "Gender Culture Makes School", model projects for conscious coordination. We have training events on gender-differentity work and conflict management at schools, reflective coordination. We have set up girls' classes, have carried out a special evaluation of these girls' classes. There are several schools, especially in technical schools, an ombudsman for girls, a trust teacher, contact women for girls. We have compiled a specialist reference pool for parent evenings. We have launched the project "School quality and gender learning culture". A seminar "Education for Equal Opportunities" is already being organised in kindergarten education. We have produced numerous brochures in the series of papers, there is the "Knowledged Codukation" action, we have commissioned a study on the educational motivation of girls, and we have put women's emphasis on further education, adult education and have implemented numerous courses in the countries. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Novotny.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is necessary to point out that many things are happening, and it is quite clear that many further steps need to be taken to continue working together. I am also trying to pay particular attention to all measures taken by the Ministry of Women's Education, Equality and the promotion of girls. We have recently developed our own vocational orientation curriculum, which has been newly introduced for the third and fourth grade primary school as well as the third and fourth class AHS. These vocational orientation curriculums clearly state that the problem of female occupations - boys' occupations in the classes must be discussed, that the working world separate from the sexes must be illuminated, that consequences for the life and career career must be shed light on, that the self-esteem of girls must be strengthened, that the double burden on women should be shown, that solutions must be discussed with the girls, and that, in particular, the sharing of partnerships, the new role understanding is a very important content. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Prammer mentioned that we are at the threshold of a new millennium. The question must be asked: ==References== A century of women? - It has been done a lot, but probably not enough, probably much more needs to be done. But I think that's the 21st thing. A century of women must become a century, and above all a century of the new partnership. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] We must be aware that many further steps are necessary to ensure genuine equality, that many further steps are necessary to achieve a corresponding awareness-building among men. We must follow these steps together, and we should have the motto: Promote women and demand men!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e8006	Thank you very much, Mrs. Federal Minister. Mrs Kammerlander spoke on business. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e8024	Mr President. For business treatment: The Rules of Procedure provide for an exchange of views between Members of Parliament and members of the Government in the debate. In the course of this debate, before being interrupted to call for the urgent request, it did not come to this exchange of views between the Members of Parliament and the members of the Government, because three parties could not exchange their opinions. I would like a debate on the Rules of Procedure so that this exchange of views can take place.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e8051	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would like to refer you to another provision of the Rules of Procedure, namely § 19 para. 1. Mr Klubobmann, Dr. Khol, also reported on business treatment. - Please, Mr. Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e8070	Mr President. An exchange has taken place - probably between those who want to hear in part and do not want to hear in part. However, Mrs Kammerlander did not make any request, and I would therefore ask you to continue on the agenda.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e8091	Mr Kier also spoke on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e8106	Mr Klubobmann Khol presented here a very remarkable view of parliamentarianism by expressing his opinion that Mr Kammerlander was wrong about the procedure. - She didn't. I also note, above all, that Mrs Bundesminister Gehrer did not hold a single committee meeting on women's people's desires. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: But you don't!]] That is why it makes sense for her to have spoken on this issue today. It makes sense, yes, but it would have been able, in the case of disciplined and solidaric behaviour, to hold on to the use of this House, which normally - I may not be quite as old and experienced as Mr Klubobmann Khol - the speakers of the five political groups enter positions, then the members of the government express themselves, then the debate will continue and, of course, of course, the members of the government will often speak. [[Call the ÖVP: Rules of Procedure!]] I simply mean, it is formal - and you have been right, Mr President - but it was necessary, in the context of a debate on the Rules of Procedure, to point out that it has been a very self-evident procedure of the members of the government, not even where it is a popular desire and not even a government proposal. - That was important to me.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e8154	On business: again, Mrs Kammerlander. I would like to point out that although the motives are interesting, there are the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e8173	Mr President. I should like to draw your attention to the fact that according to § 60 para. 2 expressly mention in the Rules of Procedure the interlocutory speech, the order mentioned, the fore- and counter-voices. I refer to this and make a request under the Rules of Procedure to hold a debate on how this should be handled, that there should be an exchange of views and that there should be an exchange of views.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e8206	I do not want to presuppose the vote, Mrs Colleague, but the provision refers to the Members and does not include members of the Federal Government. Here is the determination of § 19 at least one Lex specialis. Further to the Rules of Procedure... [[Abg. May. Stoisits: But the spirit of the Rules of Procedure!]] The spirit of the Rules of Procedure can be understood differently as the spirit of every law and is not covered by normative force, but is just an interpretation. But interpretation only takes place when something is controversial. And here the mind is irrelevant, because the text is clear. - Please, Mr. Khol.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e8233	Mr President. High house! This morning, in the treatment of genetic engineering, two other ministers spoke after Mrs Prammer - Dr. Michalek and Dr. Dr. Bartenstein. [[Abg. May. Stoisits: But after the five Members!]] I wonder what such a special thorn is in the eye of the Greens - perhaps the "Rose of Weppersdorf" - that there is now such a theatre here. No request has been made, no request has been made, and therefore nothing can be voted on. I would ask that we finally turn to the women's people's desire again and not formal decisions.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e8283	Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Kostelka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e8299	Mr President. You mentioned earlier that you wanted to have a vote. But I wonder what you want to do about this vote. According to § 19 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, a member of the Government shall be entitled to speak at any time without interruption of a speaker. That's what the two members of the government did - and nothing else! I understand the displeasure of colleagues. But I have to add: If no urgent request had been made, there would have been no such discussion at all. The problem has arisen because an important matter is covered by a urgent request. But this is a problem that cannot be solved by business regulations.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e8329	In the continuation of the Rules of Procedure debate, however, it will be closed in just under 2 minutes, because I will call for a urgent request at 3 p.m., Mrs Petrovic. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e8344	I follow the statements of the clubman Kostelka. - Mr. Klubobmann! If no urgent request were made, the two Federal Ministers would not have spoken now. I would like to appeal a little to women's solidarity and make the request, also in the sense of the mentions in the Zägernitz Commentary, that a brief debate be held here on a business-related process and that the National Council vote on it.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e8375	I now put to the vote the motion for a resolution - I think it was the last one of Mrs Petrovic's - on the Rules of Procedure. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Why?]] Whoever wants to take part in a debate which has been requested several times, I would ask for a sign of approval. - This is the minority. This request is therefore rejected. I am now interrupting the negotiations on Agenda items 3 to 18 for a debate on a urgent request. Request by Mr Herbert Scheibner and Mr Comrades concerning the opening of negotiations with the Contracting Parties to the North Atlantic Treaty on Austria's accession to the NATO Treaty (748/A) (E)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e8413	Ladies and gentlemen! We are in favour of urgent procedure for the application made today 748/A (E). This request has been duplicated and distributed; it is available in written form to all members of the House. There is therefore a lack of reading by a writer. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e8599	Mr Scheibner spoke on the grounds of the urgent request. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e8617	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! A very hot debate on Austrian security policy was held yesterday, and today a citizen called me in the early days and asked me: Why do you discuss and argue so long, so many weeks and months about the security of Austria, about NATO or neutrality, there are no more important, more up-to-date issues that you should deal with and about which you should break your mind, where you should take action, such as the areas of employment, education policy and family policy?
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e8638	Deputies, one second. Ladies and gentlemen! The previous chapter is completed, we are dealing with a different subject. I ask for attention to be paid to the speaker.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e8663	Mr Murauer! This citizen is right! - I am sure you will not suspect that the security policy would not be important to me. Ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP! In the whole democratic world, it is common for security policy to respond as quickly as possible to changed framework conditions, to try to bring about a national consensus in the country in an open discussion and to take the necessary measures together - with sufficient information to the population. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Not as you do, that you have the public discussion, even in the media, now over weeks and months with the question: Can this government agree on a line or not? I would like to ask the Commission to take this opportunity to present a proposal to the Council for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to exposure to certain dangerous substances. Ladies and gentlemen! What has been done in security policy over the last eight years? - For eight years, however, this government has been trying to reach a consensus on the reorganisation of security policy, but it is true that only a pitiful spectacle is happening. At first, they damned the liberals who in 1990 were the first to demand an offensive line and say: After the end of the cold war, after the collapse of Communism, it is necessary that Austrian security policy is also reorientated! - You blamed us, you criticized us, and then you also put in place measures that were against this. I would remind you that about Finland in 1990 immediately after the turn, immediately after the collapse of Communism, the peace agreement with the Soviet Union - then Russia - was dissolved. They said, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, That's another time now, we're a sovereign state. At the same time, our Parliament, namely in autumn 1990, cemented the Austrian State Treaty in broad areas. At the time, you have seen that you lack the courage to have a truly offensive orientation and reorientation in state and security policy! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In the last eight years, they have repeatedly used security policy as a theme filler in the medial summer holes. I remember that Mr Cap was a pioneer in July, as it is not quite that hot with politics in July. At that time you tested: What does it look like in the population if the SPÖ once demands that Austria join NATO? And then, in particular, the Social Democrats, they have tried to abuse this issue as an election topic and to drive the party-tactic games within the government to the summit. - Ladies and gentlemen from the government! In this way, you have irresponsibly threatened the interests of Austria and, through your incredible misinformation of the population and your armament, you have insecured the Austrians. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! That is what you have to blame, both political groups. For the Austrian People's Party, which now acts as if it had always been for the NATO, for the Austrian Alliance membership, should read its own press releases once: Your opinion has changed almost weekly. Once it's called: Yes, into NATO, that's our security!, then it's called: NATO accession is not a debate! Klubobmann Khol has once banned neutrality into the tabnacle. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: In the treasure chamber!]] In the treasury, also good; there she is also well removed, colleague Khol. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Tabernacle is elsewhere!]] Just, Mr. Khol, why did you... [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You don't know the difference between Tabernacle and Treasure? – I always knew that!]] Well, it's very nice that you know that, then you'll give me a talk about it. I ask you - perhaps you will also answer the question - why, when the SPÖ had threatened to make the question of neutrality on the EU election election topic, have you suddenly made a glowing commitment to neutrality here to this speaker's seat? - That's voters' false information, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I'll do that!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But don't you think that's what's going on with anyone else! That is your consequence, and it is also seen how little you have actually taken this question seriously and continue to do so. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! You are now saying - Mr Maitz mentioned yesterday - that you are now trying to convince the coalition partner and not to vote over it. Mr Maitz! How long do you need to convince the coalition partner? [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Until they have failed!]] How long have you had time!Unknown term type: "%s".? It is not true that you have nothing to do with security policy and defence policy! Your Minister for Foreign Affairs, Schüssel, is the chief responsible for these areas. Your Minister of Defense, Fassleven, is responsible! What have you done about your convictions lately? Now you want to convince the government partner? - You can't convince the voters, so it's no wonder that you can't convince the coalition partner SPÖ of your policy either. In this case, however, it would be time for us to finally start from the work of conviction and to draw on the consequences, to allow Mr Murauer, to have clear votes and to act clearly here in the sense that you always pretend to be. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The SPÖ is trying, ladies and gentlemen - I have already said this - to bring neutrality into play again and again. You have had to take a few leaves, as last one in Lower Austria, Mr. Schieder, where Mr. Höger has still advertised: Neutrality instead of NATO! I would like to know what a national captain's representative has to do with these questions. [[Abg. Arbitrator: I'm a Wiener!]] The results of the elections have been down accordingly. [[Abg. Schieder: I am a Vienna MP!]] - Yes, you are a Vienna MP, but foreign-political speaker and chairman of the Foreign Policy Committee, and therefore not entirely irresponsible for the line in your party and in your club. I am therefore speaking to you, Mr Arbitrator, quite specifically, because I believe that you can talk to Mr Klubobmann, perhaps there are bigger problems, and I understand this too, because someone who has been scanning "Ho Chi Minh" a few years ago now has a problem to see this "enemy image" NATO as an option, Mr Kostelka. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: When did I scan "Ho Chi Minh"?]] Mr Kostelka, as a representative of the 'Havanna Group', you also have a very good way of keeping yourself from within-party, intra-group competitors of the Body Cap, who would very much like to succeed, is for NATO, and then you have to play the counterpart. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That was the fungus, Mr. Scheibner! That was the fungus with Ho Chi Minh!]] Little convincing, Mr Klubobmann Kostelka, but also little state-political! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: How can you confuse Kostelka with mushroom?- Oh, my God!]] With an atrocious propaganda to insure the population - for partytactic reasons alone! - It's the disgrace we blame you! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Where did I make grudge propaganda?]] You come each time with the argument: Not in this military alliance NATO, we do not want nuclear weapons here in Austria, we do not want foreign military stations, we want to maintain neutrality, that is, peace and freedom for Austria! [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Is it one, or is it none?]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Are they, or are they not?]] At the same time, Mr Klubobmann Kostelka, you will be silently and secretly voting with the Austrian People's Party in decisions and supporting measures taken by the government under your Federal Chancellor, who would be taken seriously with neutrality, would be completely incompatible. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Quiet and secret in the National Council?]] I now only take the support of the last eight years: Austria's support in the Kuwait War, Austria's accession to the European Union, with the commitment to the common foreign and security policy Foreign and security policy, discussion of a proposal from the Federal Government, the SOFA agreement - a troop statute of the 'NATO-old' from 1951, Mr Kostelka, is to be taken over by Austria -, accession to the 'PfP-plus', 'Partnership for Peace - plus', where Peace-making actions, i.e. combat missions, are planned and, last but not least, - I mentioned it yesterday - central cooperation, which is still the cover! At the initiative of the Minister for Defence, Mr Fassleven, and after the decision of the Federal Government, Mr Kostelka - including your Chancellor and your members of the government - a battle force is to be set up; a battle brigade together with countries such as Romania, Slovenia, Hungary and Slovakia. Slovakia will not be included in this "evil" NATO, as you always say, for democratic policy reasons, but Austria wants to carry out with these brigade peace-making actions, i.e. combat missions, possibly also against the will of the parties involved. And here you make yourself a guardian and savior of neutrality, although you know that neutrality is not recognized anywhere, especially by your comrades in the other states. That is why it has already ceased to function under international law. Ladies and gentlemen! Both of them, ÖVP and SPÖ, have never taken and implemented an important command of serious neutrality, namely the armed neutrality, according to which someone who stands for himself the neutrality, that is, that he alone wants to be equipped against all possible conflict parties, needs a properly equipped and equipped federal army. You've been neglecting that for the last 40 years! They have driven our federal army to the brink of the abyss. The budget alone, Mr Kostelka, accounts for 0.8% of gross domestic product. In this way, we are absolutely final in Europe, still behind Luxembourg. So: You have not met any condition imposed on a permanent neutral state in recent years! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] On the contrary. They broke everything that was still to be broken. In Parliament, there was no vote at all on all these important matters of security policy, no discussions, at least not on the part of the government groups. Ladies and gentlemen! Membership in the "Partnership for Peace" - has never been here in the National Council. The question of military conversions - has never been here in the National Council. We have been comforted by the security policy - including the requests made by the other opposition parties - in dealing with our requests, and we have been told that the option report will come. The government has begun to solve the major problems of this country and has announced in its statement of Government following the last national elections that it is committed to implementing the new security policy regulation of Austria - that is, an option report for the first quarter of 1998 - and also calls for this option report by a resolution of the National Council, application by Schieder/Spindelegger, which is to be available until the end of the first quarter of 1998, i.e. at the end of March. Well: This government didn't make it! It has not even managed to list the options, let alone make a decision here. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that it is now time for this Parliament to finally act that this Parliament will break into the vacuum that this government has produced and finally show that it is taking responsibility for this country as a people's representative, clearly showing the options and then making clear decisions on the future of Austrian security policy. [[Complaints with the liberals]] That's the job we've got from the voters. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] Mr Wabl! We're not afraid of the voters. [[Abg. Wabl: Neither do we!]] We know very well that the electorate is making the right decisions when he receives the right information. [[Abg. Wabl: We love the voters!]] That is why we have also said that policy must not press ahead with the decision. We must set out the options here and decide on our proposals, and of course the people must also be dealt with on this issue. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party! You have now delivered the "gustopückerl" in this play - also from the government - by taking your own option - quite seriously - you may not have had it - already before the negotiations with the SPÖ had been completed, ready to distribute. But that's what you have to do with yourself. And now you bring this option here in Parliament and say: You can discuss it, but don't vote! Ladies and gentlemen! How far have we come here in this Parliament that applications are being tabled here - at the pressure of government politicians - which we may discuss, but which we are not being voted on? Do you still have a sense of self-esteem as a representative of this Republic? Do you just want to discuss, or do you want to co-design and co-delegate the skills of this country? But then you have to allow applications and votes here! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We will give you assistance in this area! If you talk about the options and list the options, you can see clearly how these options are. I don't know what you have to research and discuss for two and a half years. One possibility that exists is to remain absolute, that is, to organize security for oneself alone, and to do so to no one else's account of it or to have to give help and assistance. If that is your view of things, Mr Kostelka and ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, you must also say what it costs. In this context, they always bring Sweden as a good example. But then you also say what Sweden, Switzerland or Finland have spent in recent decades for their own national defence: double to triple - but over 40 years! If you want to pick this up, then you must also tell the people that without objective reasons you now want to invest 30 billion, 40 billion schilling in a serious state defense that is imposed on you. You have to explain this to the people. [[Abg. Arbitrators: But you compare countries that also have naval forces with Austria! They've got naval forces!]] Switzerland's maritime forces can show me! Perhaps a couple of hinkels are driving on the lake in Geneva, Mr. Schieder. I don't know if the costs are involved here. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: (in the direction of Abg. Do you want ships?]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: No, but because he compares the costs, and they also have costs for shipping! 1 : 1 cannot be compared!]] But, Mr. Schieder! The option that you represent, namely no alliance membership, on the other hand, but also does nothing for your own national defence, cannot be the goal of a state policy! On the other hand, you want to join us everywhere, if the others need us. Count everywhere in foreign operations - about 1.5 billion schilling a year for foreign operations! - but we do not want the rights to be used, namely that the others take over security guarantees for us too. - It's a security policy I really can't understand. Ladies and gentlemen! For us, the option is clear: The future of European security policy lies in the alliance. A renationalisation of security policy in Europe would be completely absurd, yes dangerous. And if one chooses this common organization of security policy, one must also make it clear and clear that only NATO can give security guarantees as the only functioning organization. Of course - and the decisions are appropriate - nothing new will be created next to NATO or outside NATO. Mr Kostelka! Federal Chancellor! You always drive around the world history: 11 out of 15 EU member countries, mainly social democratic - these are your comrades! - They're members of NATO. They have no interest in making billions of investment available to you - and only because you have a problem in order to ensure order within your group in this respect - to build a new structure. Federal Chancellor! You don't believe that! Explorers You're with your comrades in the international community! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: But a few years ago, you asked for it yourself from there!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Schieder! Of course, we want a stronger European component. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: He wants to, but he can't, Kostelka is too strong!]] All European countries are in demand, because it is a blow that in every security conflict in the past and present, the US has always had to intervene as intermediaries, for example in the Northern Ireland crisis, in Kosovo, in Bosnia. But that is the responsibility of the Europeans! How do you intend to assume this responsibility if you do not want to integrate yourself into the security structures? The Western European Union - also addressed to the Members of the Liberal Forum - has also clearly stated for itself that it will not build a separate structure, because it would be unwise to spend the necessary resources on working only together and within NATO, and therefore it is impossible to join the Western European Union without being a NATO member at the same time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hans Helmut Moser]] In this context too, even if presidential elections were to be held, even if some options were to be left open to government participation, a little more honesty would be required in the public debate! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is not about joining a military pact, but about implementing political values of democracy and defensive defence policy. And all your horror stories about nuclear weapons are not true. That's all regulated. There are no more nuclear weapons supported in NATO Europe - Mr Kostelka! [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Not?! Northern and south of the Austrian border!]] Why don't you ask me? - and I hardly believe that the Neusiedler See or the Danube are suitable for the use of submarines. The Treaty with Russia - read it - clearly states that nuclear weapons are not stationed in the new Member States and that no permanent military stations can take place. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: That's not true!]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: With the exception of Articles 5 and 6!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The neutrality - I have already mentioned - is not being taken seriously by anyone today, and it is also clear that it can no longer offer us security protection. That is why we should, as a full member of NATO and the Western European Union as soon as possible, allow Austria to participate in the construction of a European security component and, on the other hand, to ensure the safety of our country and the population cost-effectively and efficiently. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The Federal Government has failed. The Federal Chancellor will bring to our attention today his escapes. We as parliamentarians are now required to make rapid decisions. I can only invite you to take this urgent request today.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e9110	Mr Bundeskanzler spoke on the subject of the urgent request within the meaning of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please, Mr. Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e9128	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! If one has followed the debate and the previous speaker's contribution, one could gain the impression that Austria has not had a security policy so far - and if one had one, then it was one to be damned. In contrast, as the Federal Chancellor of this Republic, I am very grateful to be able to say that in more than four decades, many German Chancellors of the two state-bearing parties have been here who have founded and developed a European, an Austrian security policy that has made Austria safe and internationally respected. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ, the Liberal Forum, the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As Chancellor of the Republic of Austria, allow me to say clearly in this House: I firmly reject any form of insulting our country as a pedaler! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Austria is one of the most active countries in participating in peace-keeping and peace-making measures in the world because of its security policy, which has been established in more than four decades of neutrality and living solidarity. Over 38 000 Austrian people - with an effort of over 7 billion schilling, with more than 30 stakes in this world; currently only in 11 places in the world -, civilians and soldiers, men and women, are active in securing peace in the world. Austria is not a pedaler and will never be a pedaler! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I believe that it is also good for this House and me as Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany to thank once again those more than a thousand people who work in this area in the context of an Austrian active security policy in many places in the world. [[It is a pleasure to see the SPÖ, the Greens as well as representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Austria has always known itself as a comprehensive security policy. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Wabl.]] Extensive security policy means that we are not only willing to spend a lot of money on arms, ammunition, logistics and transport, if it is already too late for peace, when the heats of crisis are already burning, but also that we are prepared to give aid in supporting young democracies in achieving a certain wealth and standard of living through an active foreign policy - such as that of the current Foreign Minister - but also through our willingness to provide development aid in the pursuit of young democracies, but also against the real new threats of this world as the Republic of Austria. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Why are we discussing security policy at present? - But not because Austria is a country such as our neighbours who have so far focused their security policy on the Warsaw Pact, which is now no longer thanks to God, and who now quickly want to enter another military pact. I believe that we are right to discuss this security policy because we understand the whole area of security, internal and external security, as a fight against human trafficking, illegal migration, against ethnic tensions, racial persecutions and against economic crises, including within Austria, which can all lead to wars. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Scheibner! If you talk to the Austrians, you will find: The Austrians have not felt more threatened since the - thank God - destruction of the Warsaw Pact. [[Abg. Scheibner: Don't you have the responsibility to take care of yourself?]] In internal security and external security, we have to ensure, above all, that we fight against the actual threat scenarios. That is why we are devoting ourselves to the fight against organised crime, to drug trafficking, to trafficking in human beings and so on. And on this point too, this Federal Government can be proud: Austria has become a lot safer, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] But, of course, I am aware that we must be able to deal with threatening regional crises, such as we have experienced them in Bosnia or Kosovo, where prevention has failed, where human hatred, where ethnic disintegration is far too great, and where we want to work in such cases with peace-keeping and peace-making measures. Ladies and gentlemen! But I don't understand one thing: In my opinion, the crucial discussion about Austrian security policy has taken place at another time, namely on 1 January. January 1995, the date of Austria's accession to the European Community, to the European Union. And for all those who see in this European Union the only possible project for a peaceful and common Europe, there must also be a commitment to a common European foreign policy and a common European security policy. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] We have therefore decided to step up cooperation with the existing security organizations within the framework of the Federal Government in all ways. There's no enemy pictures! We want to intensify cooperation within the framework of the United Nations, within the OSCE, within the framework of the European Union and also cooperation within the framework of the Partnership for Peace, the European Atlantic Partnership Alliance. This federal government is committed to this. It confesses itself to this expanded "partnership for peace". It also acknowledges the need for a powerful and efficient federal army. [[Abg. Scheibner: You broke that!]] I therefore advocated that, a few days ago, despite all the discussions, we in the Council of Ministers have also taken the decision on the reform of the army in the sense of an efficient and efficient Austrian army with appropriate equipment. That's an important confession. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] But I do not want to hide one, ladies and gentlemen: There were, in fact, discussions on some of the points on which no agreement could be reached. This is the reason why there was no joint recommendation from the Federal Government. It was about whether NATO as a military pact and military alliance as it exists is the right thing for us, or whether a more European-oriented alliance, a European perspective - and we have the vision, the dream that this will be fulfilled in the future - is actually the right option. I'm not against exams. That's where we can be quiet. I am against the fact that, as we do not yet know how this Europe is developing without a dividing line, and we cannot yet know whether the commitment to a common European foreign and security policy that has already been entered into will actually be implemented requires the perspective and the objective of NATO membership. If we have this discussion, we must also conduct it in the public and with the Austrian population. NATO still has the nuclear first hit doctor. NATO is still trying to be the first to use and use nuclear weapons. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] That's a clear fact. And there is, ladies and gentlemen, a lot more to clarify. Of course! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Complete nonsense!]] No, unfortunately not! A lot of things can be agreed for the case of peace. But you know that for the crisis one cannot agree that there are no nuclear weapons stationed in Austria, that one cannot agree for the crisis case that there are no foreign troops stationed here, and many more of these points. This is an objective discussion. [[Abg. Scheibner: I believed that "there are no more crises"!]] I am currently concerned with something else, and I would like to try to take you a little bit on this journey of thought, ladies and gentlemen. Just a little bit. Please try! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Let's try it!]] We are confessing ourselves and I recognize this European perspective, and Europe must develop into a common political force across the internal market. Who would have thought ten years ago that Europe would have a common currency? [[Abg. Dr. Haider: We don't have her yet!]] - I know you were not for this, but I think it is important for Europe's position in the world as the largest economic block. If we now have this single European currency, we need a co-ordinated European economic policy and a co-ordinated European social policy. We also need a co-ordinated foreign economic policy, and of course we - Mr Dr. Mock has always rightly formulated this as an objective - need a common European foreign policy. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: The wrong witness!]] We have to admit today that in Europe we have a weakness that we are not yet in a position - because the Treaty of Amsterdam is not yet ratified and is not yet fulfilled - and because there is not yet the "Mister CFSP" - to actually formulate a common foreign policy. But where is the Europeans' self-understanding if they do not set themselves the goal of having a common foreign and security policy? - I would feel deeply unwell if, as Europeans, we would not be able to resolve crises such as in Bosnia or Kosovo itself in the future due to the lack of technical and organisational structures. - We're not in a position to do this today. [[Abg. Scheibner: What will you do about it?]] But what is the goal? - The objective cannot be in the face of European self-confidence, which does not want to happen in the future, just because one is not capable of doing so at the moment. The aim must be to develop a common European security policy which will enable us to solve the problems in these European crisis spots in peace, even though - God may prevent it! - no decision is taken in the American Congress. I think that is part of a European self-understanding. That is why I am convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that this gradual development of the existing security policy pursued by the Federal Government - and we have now become aware of a gradual development, namely the military reform, the "Partnership for Peace - Plus" and the implementation of the Amsterdam Treaties - is the right answer to the urgent questions and problems we have at the end of this millennium. We will see how this European vision, which we have in common, will develop in the next few years. That won't be the case tomorrow, I'm sure it won't work. But as a self-confident European, I do not want to give up this objective of a common foreign and security policy! And I am convinced that this is also the common basis of the Federal Government's well-known common foreign and security policy in Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e9321	Thank you, Federal Chancellor. We are now entering the debate. No more than 25 minutes per group, no more than 10 minutes per speaker. The first speaker is Mr. Dr. Jörg Haider. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e9346	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Now, if you were to ask a spectator or a listener about this speech by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany what his impression is, he would say: Well, he's got g'red, but he didn't say anything. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That is exactly the impression you must have. The Federal Chancellor tells us: 7 billion Schilling spends Austria, with 38 000 brave Austrians all over the world! - Yes, what prevents you from taking the Austrians' own security seriously and investing in this area, not only to let our people around the world flange, but to do something here in Austria?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And that's why, Federal Chancellor... [[Interference of the Federal Chancellor Mag. Climate.]] Calm down, Federal Chancellor! You yourself have committed yourself to a request, but you have not at all responded to it. However, this proposal is the reason why we are debating here today. You have made a request in Parliament, in which you have declared: By the end of March, the security report will be available with the options. But you couldn't present him. For this, you will now explain to us in a word how many billions of schilling the Austrians are in use all over the world. It is clear that this debate is unpleasant for you. Mr Klubobmann Khol has even intervened at the highest level in the ORF today and said that the debate is not so important that it should not be transferred. - That's the interesting one, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Klubobmann practises censorship in state broadcasting! That's really interesting. He has tried to win journalists not to report on the debate. Ladies and gentlemen! That is why today the EIA is so unpleasantly affected by the debate. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Mr. President! Actual correction!]] Mr Khol, this is your style: All over you, tell me what might happen to you right now. But here in Parliament you will have to confess color. We will force you to do so - even today with the vote. Once again, we will see whether your friends in the ÖVP have spiritual freedom or whether they are led through Parliament at the nostrils of the clubman. That's what we're going to look at! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! What do we have now? - We don't have a functioning federal army right now, at best a "Bundesheer light". Thanks to the SPÖ initiative, the German army has been disassembled. We now have more generals than the American army, but we have no more foot people and no more troops. We have no neutrality, because NATO has been allowed to fly over our country for a long time, NATO is allowed to inspect our federal army, NATO is allowed to carry out controls in the Austrian federal army and NATO is allowed to carry out arms. So we have long given up neutrality. We don't have a WEU either, because they don't exist yet, that's a letterbox company. We do not have a common foreign and security policy, which the Federal Chancellor himself has admitted. He said that if I understood him correctly, he would be ashamed if European foreign policy in Kosovo could not reach a solution. - At hour, please, it can't be foreign policy. But how long do the peoples there still have to go on one another? Until you agree to create your own security system? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Who was it, Mr Bundeskanzler, who has now intervened in Kosovo again? Who was it that intervenes in Bosnia over and over again? - This is the NATO you don't want. But it takes coal out of the fire for you, where European foreign policy cannot do so. Fortunately, you have not followed your advice, Federal Chancellor - with your permission and with all the appreciation of your person. But what you said when the Serbs went off to Kosovo Albanians - you told the Kosovo Albanians instead of calling the Serbs to reason against a minority - has not contributed to the resolution of the conflict. This was not exactly a glamour of Austrian foreign policy. The Kreisky would turn around in the grave if he had heard this kind of declaration. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They produce one phantom word after another. They speak of a "own European security architecture". Perhaps you could once describe how this phantom should look out for your ideas. Because you like this in your policy. They use phantom words everywhere: Export offensive - but then nothing comes; Technology offensive - but then nothing comes; Course offensive - but then nothing comes, we only have unemployed apprentices in our country; security offensive. Yes, how do you want to ensure these, Mr. Federal Chancellor? - Of 15 EU members, eleven are members of NATO. Are you going to convince all of these and make them leave NATO and enter your not yet existing security architecture? - You won't be able to tell the Austrians. This is exactly your dream male role, which you also play in Austrian security policy. They let Austria hang in the air with both legs. This is the problem we need to highlight here. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They say that Austria has done well with its security policy in recent years. You certainly know the information about the Warsaw Pact's progress plans when there was still the Iron Curtain. It's all known now. At the time, in the General Staff of the Warsaw Pact as well as in the NATO General Staff, it was clear that, in the event of an attack on Austria, Austria has a maximum of one day in which to resist. Then the Warsaw-Pact troops march south through the Styria to the sea, and then armed units fly towards Salzburg and Munich and take up the bombardment. These are the plans! In all these march plans, NATO provided for Austria to be protected by NATO. You don't want to do that. We have never been able to defend our neutrality itself, but we have always been determined that there is a Western Atlantic partner. your primitive anti-Americanism Once you have to hang on the nail, and you will have to take note that the story goes over you if you are not willing to finally see things right! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They are the ideological games in the SPÖ: Mr Fischer goes to the Duma to Moscow and tells us that neutrality must be defended. It is not the task of an Austrian President to abandon the others and make difficulties in security policy! This was misunderstandingd by Mr Scheibner. There I have to defend colleagues Kostelka, who did not shout "Ho Chi Minh", he could not do that yet, but Fischer cried it. So he was already there with this action. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: He's not so much older!]] So it was. This is well-known and documented. I do not think it is about when a leaf shot on Kostelka has now been fired within the SPÖ because of the unmistakable club financing. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Clearly understandable!]] This is certainly from one side, which is annoyed by the fact that climate has fallen with its pro-NATO holding and cannot prevail in its own club. That's it, we know. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: But that's how the game of the FPÖ seems to run!]] It is also annoyed that the maker cannot actually say that we are doing so because his own group did not follow him on this question. Because as Federal Chancellor, he gives the line. That is how he is, unfortunately, inferior and now has to explain this with all kinds of vocabulary. Mr Cap must not even sit inside in a debate on NATO, ladies and gentlemen, he is already gone. He doesn't have a chance at all. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: He may, but he is not there. He should even be there! He's missing!]] Yes, yes, he is missing strikingly often when it comes to these crucial things. I believe that this rounds off the picture of which we liberals rightly say it is in a clear direction to make decisions here. For, ladies and gentlemen, don't forget one: In 1955, too, your highly praised Bruno Kreisky, as a historical person, made massive resistance to the takeover of the position of a permanent neutrality in the state treaty negotiations because he knew very well that it was in fact a shirk for a small state that is between two blocks and that it will always be necessary to accommodate this small country in the greater defence protection of a partnership. [[Abg. Arbitrator: The Raab then prevailed!]] That's a fact. That's in the historical data. This can be read in the archives. Federal Chancellor! A little story would also be good for you. If you'd read a little bit, maybe it'd be a lot easier in your own party. Then ask, Federal Chancellor, why you are actually forced to enter a military alliance with the Eastern European states, for example, in the form of a joint brigade with Hungary, Slovakia and Slovenia, if you are so for neutrality. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Lei, lead, carnival!]] Is that the new security architecture you dream of? - It is not very convincing that one is developing a common defence strategy with Slovakia in particular, forming an army, setting up a brigade with which one can also lead attack wars... [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: That must not be true!]] Of course! Dear Kostelka! You are probably a "white" vintage and have no idea, but peace-making measures also mean risking such military interventions. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: I'm not a "white" vintage!]] Therefore you will have to consider what you really do. For, ladies and gentlemen, what Austria needs is a timely decision because we have always been the land bridge between East and West historically. I see the greatest danger in the decision-making phase of the restructuring of the European defence community, which is being set up on the basis of NATO, that, in this crucial situation, Austria remains outside and other countries such as Slovenia and Croatia take on the truly strategic positions that make the Austrian Landbrücke historically fail. This is the danger we are pointing to.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e9546	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e9561	The Austrians should have the right to be informed honestly and openly about these dimensions of their future development. Let them vote, then things are clear!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e9588	Mr Dr. Khol has made a statement on an actual correction. The rules of procedure are known. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e9607	My previous speaker claimed that I had intervened at ORF that there should be no television transmission of this debate today. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: He telephoned with the ORF!]] It is true, rather, that I am extremely interested in the fact that this debate is being passed on. We even discussed this question yesterday in the current hour, because we know that it is then happening in the television world and is being transmitted directly. My previous speaker therefore spoke the untruth as always.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e9641	The next speaker is Mr Kostelka. His speaking time is 10 minutes. I would also like to make it clear that all 183 Members have the right to be in the Chamber. - Please, Mr. Dr. Kostelka.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e9657	Thanks a lot. Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I am grateful for this debate, which is not necessarily the case with all the urgent matters, even if the discussion of an important issue has been interrupted at the moment. That is why I am grateful, Mr Haider, because in this debate it is clear who is dealing with security policy and who is making speeches. And in this context, first of all, on the question of why Austria is participating in CENCOOP, and on the fairy tale that you try hard to build up that Austrian-Slovak-Hungarian combat associations are set up to attack the East. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Pathfinder!]] Ladies and gentlemen! In this context, just take note that what is happening here is happening within the framework of the system of the United Nations Standby Forces, with full respect for what the United Nations Charter provides. [[Abg. May. Stadler: What does "forces" mean?]] Mr Fassleven, Federal Minister, wants to join NATO several times. But even he explains in a paper of 19. February of this year, that this CENCOOP participation, in full compliance with the provisions of the Federal Constitutional Act of 26 February. This cooperation is not aimed at joining a military alliance nor at establishing military bases for foreign countries on Austrian soil. Stop with these ammary tales! As Mr Bundeskanzler said, Austria is not a pedal driver. That is why we are exercising international solidarity and are also preparing for it under the United Nations SA system. That's it and nothing else. And I'm telling you, as an Austrian, I'm proud of it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For information only, Mr Haider: There is no NATO deployment in Kosovo. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: No one claimed!]] The only NATO deployment is currently taking place in Bosnia, and Austria participates in eleven out of 17 United Nations operations. In order to answer questions as well: There was no NATO deployment in Albania, but a commitment under the United Nations leadership-nation system. Mr Haider! The United Nations has a peacekeeping and peacekeeping function. Austria is active there, and what is happening there is far more than is happening in NATO. One last thing about what you said: Security policy in the S & D Group and in the government has been consistently developed under the chairmanship of the Federal Chancellor. In this context, you will not bring a sheet of paper between me, him and anyone else. We are closed on this question, Mr Haider, because we not only have a majority in this context in social democracy, but also know that the Austrian population is standing on the ground of this law, which is still in force, namely the Neutrality Act. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You're being put under pressure, or the Rudas will shoot you off!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: That is why the Rudas is taking an ad against you, Mr Kostelka!]] We therefore also have the conviction to stand up for a good existing security system in Austria, because there are fewer threats for Austria than ever before. Therefore, there is no Window of Opportunity, and there is no reason to join a NATO that is not new. NATO is not new if it consists of 19 members instead. It still has an old strategic concept. As Mr Bundeskanzler has explicitly said, it has still claimed the nuclear initial impact. The threat scenarios you repeatedly put into space in this context prove that yes. Ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Should we really join a military alliance because of migration movements, ethnic and religious conflicts or because of the safety of nuclear power plants? - This is in a perfectly clear way an abstractity of thought. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Rudas wants to help you!]] Mr Stadler! If you are addressing recent publications in "NEWS", I would like to say: I am prepared to open the accounts in my group of control bodies. Whether you do, that's the big question. We will talk about this tomorrow at the Presidential. My offer is already available. Come out and say the same! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Be careful! Rudas! He'll take you to the ports so the Federal Chancellor can go to NATO!]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: I'm not the Rudas, I've shaved!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The SPÖ stands for a comprehensive security concept that refers not only to military concepts. For us, security is not the use of military force, but the use of political means. Security involves, of course, NATO and other perspectives, especially the UN, the OSCE and the European Union. This is an essential requirement that we put to the security system: It has to be European in particular. It has to be European in order to ensure that we do not need a decision by the Senate of the United States of America in order to ensure security in Bosnia and avoid war. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The chancellor has gone out at your speech!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Also a word about the costs: In this context, I am really convinced that what is needed is more honesty; it is therefore more honesty, because the calculations that are presented lack any basis. Although the calculation of the Ministry of Defence comes to the conclusion that a NATO accession would cost only 700 to 800 million schilling, if you look at it, then you will find that the whole budget is based on 1 per cent of GDP, i.e. it will be assumed from the outset from a military budget in Austria, which is 3.5 billion shilling above what we are currently spending, with the result that, if you calculate everything together, more than 4.5 billion shilling, an amount, ladies and gentlemen, which is 20 per cent above the current budget. [[Abg. Scheibner: You're asking for that!]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen. What we need is more honesty in the discussion. Mr Haider! We also need a slightly further horizon, and we need less thinking in military categories.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e9838	Mr Herbert Scheibner referred to an actual correction. You know the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e9870	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Klubobmann Kostelka has claimed that Austria's participation in central cooperation is not in conflict with the alleged Austrian neutrality. [[Abg. Arbitrators: That it says Fassl evening!]] - That's wrong, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Oh yes, he has said it! This is not an actual correction! He said, "Fasslevend says!"]] For a permanent neutral, there are two important, two fundamental obligations: on the one hand, that this permanent neutral must not be a member of a military alliance, and on the other hand, that he has everything to do in peace periods to prevent him from being involved in war or war. [[Abg. Arbitrator: This is a debate! They abuse the Rules of Procedure!]] This central cooperation now provides for measures of peace-building, peace-building and peace-building, Mr. Arbitration, and peace-making measures are fighting against the will of the parties involved. This contradicts the principles of international law, neutrality!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e9931	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Khol. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e9958	Ladies and gentlemen! To bring about the best security policy for our country is our task. I think the Federal Chancellor has said this very clearly and clearly. He also said very clearly and clearly that this European security policy should be given particular priority. So far, we have fully agreed with the statements of the Federal Chancellor. But it becomes interesting when he says how to achieve this goal. I would like to remind you, Mr President-in-Office of the statement you made in Madrid, because today you and my previous speaker, Peter Kostelka, and above all, Peter Kostelka, have mentioned that it must be European security, which should be determined by European organisations, in order not to ask whether peace is to be founded in Bosnia or not to be dependent on the American Congress. I would like to read to Peter Kostelka the statements of the Federal Chancellor who said in Madrid: "The development of fully functioning European security structures is essential for Europe's security and therefore also for Austria. We are willing and willing to cooperate in the spirit of solidarity. We are aware that this task can only be achieved within the framework of the transatlantic partnership." [[Abg. Dr. Haider: The Federal Chancellor thinks the Atlantic is Europe!]] - Only within the framework of the transatlantic partnership, yes. - "The creation of a new system of peace in Europe is a progressive process. In this sense, yesterday's decisions are more than just an agenda item of another international conference. The decisions of the Alliance concerning enlargement yesterday - Mr Kostelka cannot ignore the truth, he has agreed - "are exemplary in the process of creating a new NATO." - And so on. I believe that we in the government believe that it is only necessary to make more concrete efforts to achieve this objective. The Perspective, the Peter It's quite remarkable yesterday that we've shown up the arbitration. Our vice chancellor represented NATO accession yesterday, saying that would be the first security address. I believe that there is no question of making a security policy without NATO in Europe and in the world. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The government report did not come about. This is shed milk, and it is known that it is not for pouring tears over spilled milk. However, I believe that the hour of Parliament will come on this matter. [[Abg. May. Stadler: It would be today, Mr. Khol!]] That is why the People's Party has put its option on the table and put it on the table yesterday as a request. This option now lies in the Committee, where it is to be discussed. There is already a committee meeting on 8 November. May, and we can then advise this option - a red and white option. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: (keeping a brochure in height) Look, you can agree to this today! This is the cover of the option!]] We can also discuss the option of the Greens - I am convinced that the Greens will introduce this option today - but it is interesting that there is a hole where "Austria" is located. [[The speaker shows a brochure.]] There, where we are red-white-red, is a big hole in you, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Call the Greens: Very funny!]] However, I would like to say that it is worth noting that you have had the effort to put on the table your ideas, which are quite discussive. At the FPÖ I assume that today it will do what it does again and again in a proven manner: Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. [[Abg. May. Stadler: What is ÖVP doing?- Oh, my God!]] But we are glad that the liberals of our option join us. [[Abg. May. Stadler: We will see if the ÖVP joins its own option!]] It is always a good attitude, Mr. "Waldi" Stadler, to write down things that are smart. [[Abg. May. Stadler: What will the ÖVP do with its own option? Will you agree?]] However, some also write things that are not wise. - In any event, what you are presenting as an option should also be discussed in the Committee. [[Abg. Scheibner: Mr Khol! What is your request?]] The Liberals have already presented their option of joining the WEU, which in turn conforms with ideas that Peter Schieder made sound yesterday. And I assume that the Social Democrats will also put their ideas on the table. We can then discuss all of this in committee. That is already a reason, Mr Stadler, why we are not supporting your motion for a resolution today and, before it enters the committee, before it comes to the vote in order to sow it, and will not vote for it. [[Abg. May. Stadler:... why you will vote against your own option!]] We need the Committee's deliberations. We want consensus, you want discord! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have also proposed the establishment of a Security Council. In 1989, EU accession to the Integration Council was prepared, including all parties, the representatives of the social partners, the regional authorities of the Federal Republic of Germany, countries and municipalities; a Council which has proved itself very successful from 1989 to 1994. I think we are making it clear with our approach yesterday and today: We want a broad consensus, we want a broad majority in this house. One cannot make such a significant step as accession to a comprehensive security organisation with the lowest possible majority. Above all, discussion and what was so important in the course of the discussions on European integration are needed: wide-ranging debate, expert hearings, wide-ranging discussion. That is why we want this Council on Integration and Security, and that is why we want the Committee's deliberations to be held on 8 May. May be recorded. Nor does our request go in the direction that we should now immediately join NATO. However, we believe that this is an important perspective, and above all we want to explore the open questions. We have already heard from our previous speakers that there are many misunderstandings in this area. Whoever is still talking about NATO having an atomic first-rate doctor, he does not know the last decisions of this organization. We should also explore what the profile of the requirement is presented to us in the event of accession to such an organisation. We should also explore the costs; there are also fairy tales in this respect. All of this should be done in the form of an intensified dialogue. We propose this intensified dialogue, and we should start discussions on it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Why do we think NATO is an important and good address? - NATO today is an organisation of crisis prevention and crisis prevention. NATO is an alliance and helps members who are attacked. NATO is an alliance of solidarity. Wolfgang Schüssel pointed out yesterday. Who's holding the skull in the Balkans? - It's the UN, and it's NATO. NATO would be the possibility of low-cost security, and NATO is the peace organization of the great democracies in Europe. We will therefore not accept the urgent request of the liberals. The liberals want to prevent the Committee's deliberations, and the liberals do not want to make the consensus that is out of control over the liberals. [[Abg. May. Stadler: But yes, with you, with the ÖVP!]] In addition: With your majority, ladies and gentlemen, nothing would have been won, because no one gives us the guarantee that not the same thing has happened in EU accession: First of all, you were in favour, and then you voted against it. This is the wildest zigzag policy there is! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There is no security policy to be done with the Freedom Party. I trust in Parliament's deliberations, and I trust that there is a process of conviction. ==References== January 1987 the then Federal Chancellor Vranitzky said the following - I quote from the press report -: "In his foreign policy statements after the Council of Ministers, Vranitzky stressed that he had the task of controlling the common foreign policy. At the same time, he addressed his efforts to intensify the agreements with the EC. A full membership does not come into question. Austria is committed to the obligations of the State Treaty. This means political autonomy and no involvement in political alliances." - A few months later, we submitted the application for membership. I rely on the power of history, I rely on the power of conviction. God also writes on curved lines straight away! We will achieve this goal.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e10156	The next speaker is Mr Hans Helmut Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e10174	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Sorry. [[Call:Mr Bundeskanzler]] Federal Chancellor! I am pleased, and it is nice that the Federal Chancellor is taking part in this security debate today. But it is unfortunate that we in this House are always discussing security and foreign policy issues only when activities are put in place by the opposition parties, such as today's urgent request. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: What was yesterday? What was yesterday?- Oh, my God!]] Mr Khol! In fact, I would have expected the Austrian People's Party or the two government parties to make a urgent request, because the urgency of this security policy debate has actually been given. This time pressure has been imposed on the government parties themselves, because it has been agreed to submit an option report to Parliament in the framework of the European Union until the beginning of the Presidency of Austria, so that we can discuss it and then take a decision. This has not yet been done, and it is therefore urgent that we deal with the prospects of Austrian security policy accordingly. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Now Parliament is on its way. I hope, Mr Schieder - I can repeat what I said yesterday - that we can actually have a detailed discussion within the framework of the Subcommittee on Foreign Policy, that it will not be a one-off discussion, but that several meetings will take place and that the options available will also be analysed and discussed accordingly. Federal Chancellor! I must contradict you if you think that the impression can be that Austria has not had a security policy so far. That's just not right. No one disputes the benefits that neutrality has had as a security policy concept over the past decades. But, Federal Chancellor, the security conditions for our country have changed. Since 1989, since the fall of the Berlin Wall, there has been a development towards democracy in Eastern Europe. It is a fact - you, too, have highlighted this very much - that Austria has been a member of the European Union since 1995. As a result, the security and foreign policy conditions for Austria have also changed. We really have to take note of this as a fact and, above all, to draw the consequences from it. I will come back to that because I really regret that we have not used the opportunities that have arisen from the accession to the European Union properly to this day. We are observers to the Western European Union, we have not yet seen the possibility of becoming a member of the Western European Union. We have a maximum observer status in the other parliamentary bodies and are thus in a worse position than the former states of Eastern Europe or South-East Europe. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that it is really necessary to address the issues of security policy in this House in the future. Many crucial questions have really passed through this Parliament. Federal Chancellor! For example, I would like to remind you of the question of Austria's participation in the NATO Partnership. This is a political state treaty, and that is why Parliament should have been involved. Or the question of CENCOOP: This is about cooperation with other countries on issues affecting the country's security, on public security and on military defence. Therefore, pursuant to Article 50 of the Federal Constitution, Parliament would have to deal with it. This has not yet been done by the Federal Government, and I expect that at least in the course of the debate on the security options we will be able to talk about it. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If the Austrian People's Party has submitted an application, I must ask: What can we really do with this proposal if, at the same time, the parole is issued, Mr Klubobmann Khol, that we cannot vote on it? [[Abg. Dr. Khol: In committee!]] In other words, you do not want to have a serious debate in committee from the outset. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Khol.]] Yes, you want to debate in the Committee, but the point of a debate in the Committee is that the debate will be discussed in the plenary session and that a vote will take place in plenary. If you say that your request is not to be voted on, then from the outset you will prevent a serious, meaningful debate. They do not want a vote, nor do they want to discuss it, nor do they want to discuss it. I think we need a very open discussion. There should be all the options there are,... [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Where do you want to discuss?]] First of all in committee and then in plenary. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Yes, that's how we want it!]] But if you do not want to put your option, Mr Khol, in plenary, because that was to vote on it... [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Did we? We just did not want to vote on them in the course of yesterday's debate.]] Mr. Khol! It has been issued, the Austrian People's Party makes a request, but it will not be voted on.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e10282	Mr Moser! So that there is no error: Of course, all applications submitted at today's meeting and complying with business rules will be voted upon. We don't need to argue about that.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e10298	Mr President. That's right. I assume that you are acting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. But Mr Klubobmann Khol said from the outset that there would be no vote in Parliament on the request made by the Austrian People's Party to be assigned to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. This has been said, and that is why we are not trying at all - that is my conclusion - to have a serious discussion here. I believe that such a discussion is necessary and that all options must be put on the table. We know the options of the Greens, we know the options of the Freeman and also those of the Austrian People's Party. And I think that, in the course of the discussion, it is also necessary to provide fair information and to get away from this atrocity propaganda. I really regret that today Mr Klubobmann Kostelka has again explained his assessment of NATO as follows: NATO is not new, it is an old concept; atomic initial impact. - Mr. Klubobmann, that's not true! [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Oh yes!]] NATO no longer knows the atomic initial. She only knows the answer to an atomic first blow. This is what NATO has in its conception, but not an initial strike in the event of an attack, of whoever. [[Abg. Arbitrators: That is not exactly the case either! The answer to an initial blow with atomic weapons!]] With nuclear weapons; that is in the application. [[Abg. Arbitrators: The answer is this!]] That is right, but Mr Kostelka has spoken about a first-rate concept of NATO. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Yes, NATO is the first to use it!]] That's wrong. NATO does not use it as a first hit. NATO uses it as an answer to a first blow of another country. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Mr Kostelka! They have obviously slept the development of recent years. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: The strategic concept is still old!]] I can remind you: NATO has concluded a basic act with Russia. NATO has developed, NATO has changed. There is the basic act with Russia, there is the partnership agreement with Ukraine, there are other members in NATO. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Not binding under international law!]] There was the Berlin Conference and the Madrid Conference, where NATO has established new structures. NATO has fewer armed forces than it did years ago. There's the NATO Cooperation Council. There are new priorities in the task of NATO, it moves away from the classical military defense to crisis management. This is the development of NATO, Mr. Klubobmann Kostelka. In fact, there has been a new development and something has changed. I believe that Austria's perspective should be in the future European dimension of our security policy. I think we should do everything we can to ensure that a common defence policy is developed from the common foreign and security policy to which we acknowledge ourselves within the framework of the European Union. The European Union should finally come to political decisions on possible security-political activities on the European continent because it has the responsibility for peace and security on this continent. It has responsibility for 370 million citizens. Their tasks include the integration and continuation of integration in terms of security policy. That would be a perspective that we should write to ourselves. The Federal Chancellor has expressed himself in this direction, and Mr Schieder has also spoken yesterday, and I assume that he will say so today. In this European dimension, our future path should lie. The consequence and logical conclusion of this can only be membership of the Western European Union. Because this Western European Union is the security and defence arm of the European Union, because this Western European Union - especially after Amsterdam - will take over the European Union's tasks in security and defence policy, we should vote there and decide with it. This will only be possible if we are a member of this organization. That's our perspective. We have tabled our request accordingly, and I believe that this option should also be seriously discussed in the course of the Committee's deliberations. - Thank you. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[16:19]] Announcement of an application for the establishment of an investigative committee
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e10418	Before I give the floor to the next speaker, I declare that in accordance with § 33 para. 1 GOG requested the establishment of a committee of inquiry to examine: Responsibility of members of the Federal Government in connection with the free exit of the perpetrators to the so-called Kurden murders. There is also the request made by five Members to hold a debate on this request. According to § 33 para. 2 GMOs shall be debated and voted after completion of the agenda of the National Council. The next speaker is Mrs Kammerlander. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e10441	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen. - Mr. Khol! I can tell you what this is, it's not a hole, it's a white zone. [[the speaker holds up a brochure]] [[Abg. Hans Helmut Moser: A white spot!]] If you had noticed the opportunity to take a look at our option report, particularly in the last chapter, you could have noticed that one of our proposals on these options, one of the options that Austria has, is to actively participate in the creation of other such white zones. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I got it!]] What are these white zones? - These are militaryly diluted zones, nuclear-free zones, neutral or packed-independent zones. This is a continuation, by the way, Mr Khol, of what we Greens have often asked for here and have also ventilated several times in letters to the Foreign Minister and also to the Chancellor, namely that both should make themselves strong for this in the framework of international organizations, international bodies for the creation of nuclear-free zones. These nuclear-free zones are essential for the white zones. It makes sense, too, that these white zones are surrounded by militaryly very dense areas, in order to express this once in a while, in which there is much more military potential. However, I have already come to a point which has been raised here today, particularly by the applicant Scheibner and which has been strengthened by Mr Moser. And here I sometimes wonder - I know it from various discussions - whether I am here in a fairy tale hour or whether this is perhaps in the area of legends and legends. It is as if we should not talk about nuclear weapons stations at all, as if the ad acta were laid and would be over, as if there were no more ground-based nuclear weapons or no more nuclear deterrence - and so on - than if this were not true. You know very well, Mr Scheibner. [[Abg. Scheibner: In Russia there is still that!]] Let us begin with the stationing of nuclear weapons in Austria and also in the other countries that now want to join NATO. There is no mandatory international declaration by NATO that nuclear weapons will not be stationed. There will also be no mandatory international declaration, because NATO expressly states that in the event of a crisis it cannot be ruled out that nuclear weapons can and will, of course, be used and implemented as a result of nuclear weapons. The second point. Both NATO and the Western European Union have still included nuclear deterrence in their programme, in their objectives. The question, Mr Moser, is what is a first blow or who sets the first blow is more a semantic than a political question. I cannot imagine - and NATO cannot imagine it itself - that NATO is creating such a potential for nuclear weapons, only to wait until it is first attacked. In the meantime, this question is not sufficient insofar as no one can say who would attack NATO at all, because, as we know, the geopolitical situation has changed - and not only in Europe. [[Intercession with the liberals.]] - There are no longer any options for attack to the former extent. We know, for example, that there is a warning period of five to ten years against Russia, and that there is no longer the situation like during the cold war. Thirdly, as far as nuclear weapons are concerned. If all of this is so, I wonder: Why has the Federal Government made this declaration of urgency, by the way, without questioning Parliament, let alone the people? - in 1990 it declared to the Signatar States that that passport in the State Treaty, which regulated the prohibition of nuclear weapons, was obsolete. Why did the Federal Government do so if not as a preparation for accession to NATO or to the WEU? Why else?- Oh, my God! What sense would it have had to make of this declaration? - You have to explain this to me once if you want to make me aware that the question of nuclear weapons is only more "snow of yesterday". Then we could have saved ourselves that and would have gone a whole bit further now. On one point, I am right to say that many things have already been done that have long since brought the State Treaty and the Constitution into force. And by the way: With the support of the 1992 Petersberg Declaration, Austria has accepted all the statements since 1984, including the "Haager Platform" of 1987. This "Haager platform" regulates the use of nuclear weapons in the defence of Europe. This has been taken note of as it stands. You can't go to the speaker's desk here and tell us that all of this doesn't matter anymore, because if that were the case, then we might have been able to save ourselves all of this, then in the 'Petersberger Declaration' 1992 there should have been no longer to say that all those who agree to this declaration have accepted all the explanations since 1984. Finally - in order to return to Austria - to reform the Nuclear Locking Act. It is only now that it has become apparent that the coalition does not come to a joint option report that we have at least agreed on social democracy with regard to the deployment of nuclear weapons, but also to the transit of nuclear weapons. So far, it has not been possible to discuss this in discussions about a reform of the Nuclear Locking Act. Last but not least with regard to the ground-based nuclear weapons. That is also not true - and you know very well that this is not true. [[Abg. Scheibner: How do you know that again?]] There are still 520 nuclear bombs located outside the home countries in Western Europe, in 14 different places in Germany, Great Britain, Belgium, Holland, Italy, Greece and Turkey. [[Abg. Scheibner: Where?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: This is completely wrong!]] Of course, there is still this, though reduced - that is right - but still. [[Abg. Scheibner: Where did you get this?! Tell me where you got this!]] They know that enough nuclear bombs continue to be stored in Western Europe - with a total prime force exceeding the potential of the Hiroshima nuclear bomb by a thousand times. And the following is also from the kingdom of legends. You started the NATO debate at the weakest point, so to speak, and it is the easiest way to disprove it: It is not true that NATO has nothing to do with nuclear weapons, nuclear weapons stationing. That's just not right. [[Abg. Scheibner: But it is!]] If, in connection with NATO membership, anyone is a kicker, then this is the Austrian arms industry and the Austrian federal army. [[Abg. May. Stadler: And the ÖVP!]] For one thing is undisputed - and we know this - that since the fall of the Iron Curtain, since the end of the Cold War, the arms industry has suffered dramatic losses, especially the Western European, Eastern European and Russian arms industries. The only ones to benefit from NATO enlargement are the American armaments companies. These are the only ones who have been growing since 1987 and are not on the decline despite all the opposite trends. [[Abg. Scheibner: This is a nonsense! Do you want to strengthen the European arms industry?]] You can read that. It's published. You can check that at any time. Last but not least: As regards the concept of "peacemaking", you have or have said to Mr Haider, Mr Haider, he also includes military attacks. This can be true, but this is what we are talking about in particular about the coalition : [[Abg. Scheibner: That's the way it is!]] It has, once again, only had the German text in the Council of Ministers when it was decided to present the Central Initiative, CENCOOP. In the German text is the speech of "peace-making", in the English text clearly says "peace support". If you deal with NATO documents in some way, you know that "peace support" means something quite different, namely, detailed rules for implementing interventions. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's not true either!]] It is the programme of interventions. On the other hand, it is clear that, on the basis of this very shambles of peace, the SPÖ, the Social Democracy, in particular, is constantly trying to persuade, so to speak, that this is compatible with neutrality, while we know for a long time that this is not compatible. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's all wrong!]] I therefore propose a motion for a resolution which includes a referendum before further steps are taken, such as membership of the Partnership for Peace or signature under the 'Petersberg Declaration'. This application is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] President Dr Heinz Fischer : The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Kammerlander is properly supported and is under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Chief. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e10675	Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The urgent request from us and the debate on the same day - at least as far as I am concerned - have led to some surprising results. On the first side of the ÖVP paper, we are told by Klubobmann Khol that we wanted to end the discussion and now take part out a decision. I believe that the short-term memory of this Parliament or at least that of the clubman Khol has been lost. It is therefore important for me to recapitulate Mr Spindelegger and Mr Peter Schieder on 19 February. An application for 31 February 1996 was submitted. In March 1998, Parliament requested the presentation of the optional report by the majority of this Parliament. I do not believe, therefore, that we, the opposition, which, as Peter Schieder put it, are swinging "cues" of the time pressure, but rather that the Members of Parliament, with the majority of this Parliament, have already brought about the "cool" of a decision more than a year ago. [[Abg. Arbitrators: The word "needs" is incorrect!]] Mr. Schieder! It's called: "at the latest during the first quarter of 1998." - You will not dispute the text of your own resolution, Mr Arbitrator. If you have already forgotten it, I would like to read it to you so that you can hear the correct text of your own resolution here, so that you know who brought the "celle" with you. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Arbitrator: Where is the word "needed"? Where is the word "needed" in this context?]] Your resolution says - I quote - that: In this proposal, the Federal Government is also called on "to undergo a comprehensive review in the light of the course of the Intergovernmental Conference and the development in European security policy of all further security policy options, including the question of a full membership of Austria in the WEU, and to report this to Parliament before the adoption of the EU Presidency by Austria, but at the latest during the first quarter of 1998". [[Repeated Yes-Ruff of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] [[Abg. Arbitrator: Where is the word "needed"?]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Requested!]] Mr. Schieder! Here you can semantically put the word "needed" in the room: From the content, the House agreed that at least until the end of the first quarter, i.e. until 31. Mr Schreiber, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent report. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Arbitrator: "Required" is something else! Between "demand" and "request" is a difference! We didn't want anything!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: He didn't want anything!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: He just decided!]] Mr. Schieder! It is quite obvious to me that today only you and Mr Klubobmann Khol complain about the time pressure and give him the reason why you cannot agree with this urgent request by the Liberals today. [[Abg. Arbitrator: I have no time pressure!]] The time pressure, Mr Arbitrator, if at all one has passed, you and Mr Spindelegger have set themselves with your resolution, which has found a majority in this House. And you know that very well when you smile over here again relatively friendly from the first bank series. You also know very well that you obviously underestimated the time horizon within which you could have reached a common denominator in the intra-coalitarian negotiations. As you are moving in the field of foreign policy, you also know very well, Mr Schieder, that your own party friends from the Socialist International and the friends from the NATO countries are only looking at this with headaches. However, I am grateful for the fact that, in today's debate, at least that inconsistency has ceased to speak of the fact that the request of the liberals is now drawing the NATO border closer to Moscow, for obviously you have been looking at an atlas since yesterday's debate. [[Abg. Arbitrators: I didn't say that!]] Mr Schieder, you have obviously forgotten what the ladies and gentlemen of your group have objected to in yesterday's debate. [[Abg. Arbitrators: I didn't say that!]] I should like to remind you, Mr Schieder, that the NATO border of Turkey is closer to Moscow at 1 230 kilometres, that it is closer to Moscow from Norway than will be the case after the accession of the Czech Republic or Hungary. But you know that anyway. You never use such "arguments" at international level anyway. But you believe that you can serve this here to the Austrians, because, in your opinion, people do not know each other in geography. [[Abg. Arbitrators: I didn't say this with geography!]] I believe, Mr Schieder, that the Federal Government would be better off if it were finally to present an option report on security policy if it were finally to submit this option report to the Austrian sovereign, namely the electorate, in a referendum on the decision-making process. For then you would certainly recognize, Mr Schieder, that the Austrians in the security question have long gone beyond half of your left hand club in the back ranks of your group. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr. Schieder! Although you are making a fall in hand movement, I would like to tell you that you should not push out the following: It would not be uninteresting to sit in NATO as an interlocutor and to decide whether such an initial blow may occur as a preventive blow, or not - instead of sitting outside the door and waiting in the "PfP" procedure - that NATO would then inform you that it has taken a decision accordingly. [[Abg. Arbitrators: This is very interesting! That's very interesting!]] I would remind you, Mr Schieder, that in other matters of the European Union you have always put forward the argument of participation. [[Abg. Schieder: Very interesting! Very interesting!]] However, I think it is curious, Mr Schiederer, that you now find the co-voting argument very interesting in this context, but do not use it in the discussion anymore. Somewhere have As far as the important right of participation is concerned, since EU accession to the EU until today, or until a possible NATO accession, you are removed from your position at the time. If the experiences of your social democratic government friends are to blame, the eleven who are represented in NATO, then tell the Austrians! Say that They have no "G'schatz" with their own party friends, as it is so beautifully popular. Or should it perhaps be other considerations that have led you to a conversion at once in this position? What is the reason, Mr Schieder, why do you no longer want to say so, but, as the commander at the door, want to wait for what your eleven social democratic partners in NATO have voted on? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I believe, Mr Arbitrator, that important positions which have been represented by the Federal Chancellor on security policy and by the German Chancellor today are not coherent in themselves and constitute a threat to Austrian security, at least military security. [[New condolences with the liberals.]] One more thing, Mr Schieder: Mr Bundeskanzler argued that 38 000 Austrian soldiers were in use in international operations and that Austria had an excellent reputation in this field. In this context, I would like to mention from this point of view the importance of such interventions abroad for you from social democracy in truth: With the second Structural Change Act, you have also made the pensions worse for the soldiers in relation to these foreign operations! The years of use are now no longer pensionable, but only years which are considered to be replacement periods. - That's your "thank" to those 38 000 Austrian soldiers who have done excellent achievements abroad! If what Mr Bundeskanzler said here today was serious, then at least in the social security field you should finally grant these 38 000 Austrian soldiers a pension improvement! Then I would at least believe what you have said on this point today. But as long as you do not do that, Mr Arbitrator, I think you are not credible on this point too.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e10914	I now ask Mr Schieder to speak.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e10938	Mr President, I follow immediately and hope that I will also get a "good minute" for it. - Mr President, I should like to speak on behalf Mr State Secretary! Mr Hoof said, among other things, that: You should want to be there to decide who is being hit by an atomic first blow. [[Abg. Scheibner: He didn't say that!]] That's how it was formulated. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Scheibner.]] - Whether and against whom; we can read it. No matter how he said it: For me, that idea is terrible that there is an atomic blow at all, that nuclear weapons are used at all, and that people are being killed! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] We can read it in the minutes. I think I hope he didn't mean it that way. What he said was terrible. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] Don't scream, help. You can't help him, you can't help him! [[Abg. Scheibner: I learned from you how to shout!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Chief.]] We'll be able to read this. Thank God he certainly is not about it. Ladies and gentlemen! I want to come back to a quieter conversation climate. [[Abg. Scheibner: What have you always been crying in between!]] [[Abg. May. Main: Here you see how it is!]] I think it is more important to consider whether or not the European option, which you so strongly reject and call unrealistic, would be worth considering in this House and by Austrian side. [[Abg. Scheibner: You must first convince the eleven NATO members in the EU!]] - I'm still coming to talk. Also in the proposal to make an option report, it did not mean "including NATO accession", but "including WEU accession". So it has already been assumed that there is a WEU possibility in relation to the EU. I think this would be worth considering, even if you say that among the 15 EU members - as we know - there are eleven in NATO, ten in the WEU and four in neutral, block-free or non-aled. [[Abg. Scheibner: All ten who are with the WEU are also at NATO!]] That is true, but if a common line is found - it does not require anyone to leave NATO, there is no one against NATO; no one demands that NATO be dissolved, and no one is concerned when NATO is working in many areas - then it is about the following: Should this remain the only objective, the only mechanism, or is it worth the effort to break our heads in Europe about whether there can also be a European solution? [[Abg. Scheibner: That would be far too expensive!]] On the European solution, which you now want to banish so loud in the field of utopia, even in the draft report of the European Parliament presented by Tindemans last December - this is not a social democracy, as you know - it is very clear that: Any defence policy, whether national, European or transatlantic, must take account of the new geostrategic environment. The Member States of the Union question whether they wish to continue pursuing a defence policy which is independent from each other or a defence policy coordinated in alliances, or whether they consider it more effective to pursue a common defence policy. [[Abg. Scheibner: Where is it? Where are approaches?- Oh, my God!]] The key point in this report on the external dimension of a European defence policy is very clear: The need for a European Union defence policy will be even more intense if the countries of Central and Eastern Europe and Cyprus join the European Union. These countries are subject to security measures, as most of them have demonstrated by their will to become NATO members. At the same time, it is not certain that NATO will take up all these countries, especially due to the reservations of some of its current members. This raises the question of the future development of the CFSP, the role of the WEU and its territorial guarantee and the relationship between Europe and the United States. These are complex questions that need to be asked, even if there is no final answer to them. - As far as this report is concerned. [[Abg. Scheibner: What do you want to say?]] I agree with you: That's not the most likely solution. It's not the solution that comes to us automatically. [[Abg. Scheibner: To wait...!]] But it is one of the possibilities in this Europe, and it would be worth seeing a new member of this Union - like Austria - agree on this line and try to do so together. What's the point? What are you afraid of when it comes to trying to find a European line together? [[Abg. Scheibner: No one can take over the security guarantee for Austria!]] The WEU solution is possible if not the WEU determines, but the Union if the decision is taken in the EU and if the WEU states do not have to be members of NATO automatically. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's already decided!]] No, there is a European way! [[Abg. Scheibner: This is already decided in NATO!]] If the much-contested Austrian unity is to be effective, do not conjure up that, but help to make us a common cause in which we can find ourselves together so that we can create a European defence identity. [[Abg. Scheibner: You can write this into the dream book!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: That's decided!]] Let's try!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e11193	The next speaker is Dr. Maitz, Member of Parliament. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e11208	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! This debate on security policy again highlights the principle: What do we want to achieve? - Security through active participation in European and international institutions! Europe's integration continues incessantly, and we are in the middle of it. We are members of the European Union, we are participating in economic and monetary union, we are going to introduce the euro, we have a Europe without internal borders. So we know very well about the benefits of commonness. Only our external security, so many believe - even in the SPÖ - could we master alone. Others believe that the existing alliances should be directed towards us and changed according to our requirements so that Austria could get more security in such an alliance at a zero rate. - What pride! Many Austrians depend on neutrality, although it no longer has a function. [[Abg. Wabl: The discussion goes beyond the subject!]] We have overcome the Cold War, but Austria's neutrality, colleague Wabl, has remained a relic of the Cold War. [[Abg. Wabl: No one is talking about that!]] The Austrians are waiting for a clear answer. For the Austrian debate on neutrality, the long-standing delegate at the OSCE, university professor Heinrich Schneider, said: In Austria, one does not want to see neutrality as a topic of war law and does not fit in with a policy of solidarity against peacebreakers. - Professor Schneider after years of work in the OSCE. The debate on the best possible future security policy continues, including in the Social Democratic Party. There is also evidence in the S & D party that NATO alliance has not become a purely military pact, Mr. Klubobmann Kostelka, but an alliance for stability and crisis management. [[Abg. Wabl: A tourist club!]] There are many examples - and this is also part of my answer to Mr Scheibner - which give us reason to continue our work of conviction. [[Abg. Wabl: Tank stores!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: That's where we get old together!]] 25. February 1998, President Fischer: "No NATO accession under given circumstances." The article goes on to say - I quote - that "...fishers stressed that they" - namely the SPÖ - "will remain flexible, not belong to a theory of rocking and will respond to all changes innovatively." - I hope so! [[Abg. Wabl: They do too!]] A few days later, the MP Cap in "Die Presse": "NATO accession must remain a goal." There is no reason to focus on security issues with Sweden or Finland, as last called for by Klubobmann Kostelka or by the National Council President Fischer. ==References== March, the EU Member Swoboda said: "NATO is a possibility." There is a common responsibility for peace in Europe, and it is guaranteed, among other things, by NATO. 14. April 1998, Austria Press agency: Deputy Mayor and SPÖ Grand of Vienna, Hans Mayr, is "for mutual assistance." This does not say an ÖVP member, but Mr. Mayr: "Europe is under the U.S. protective sign that an agreement with NATO is therefore necessary." Ladies and gentlemen! That too is the truth in this discussion. If there are other positions in the SPÖ under electoral considerations, we will also be able to change them through discussion. The People's Party has a clear position: We want an intensified dialogue with NATO countries, and we want the perspective of Austria's accession to NATO. [[Abg. Scheibner: But this is very blurry!]] This can be read in the report that is available. [[Abg. Scheibner: "Perspective" and "Dialogue" is not "Membership"!]] What we do not want is for Austria to get into security isolation in the next few years. We do not want Austria to be prevented from achieving more security for the same money as before. Nor do we want Austria to continue waiting for a major technological shift. Moreover, what we do not want is that Austria's political and economic reputation in Europe and on the American continent suffers damage. That's why we also keep it in the security policy with Max Weber: Politics is drilling hard boards with patience, attention and passion. We will continue our work of conviction - in the population, in Parliament and in the government partner - for accession to the European and Atlantic NATO Community. For it is always pretended to be a non-European Community: 14 European Member States and two American states are the best peacekeeping together. We will achieve this goal without breaking a contract with the government partner. We will also achieve this goal without compromising the overall successful work of this government coalition. The Members of the Liberal Group have today made an epochal invention. [[The speaker shall keep a document up to date.]] With this motion for a resolution - copied, our report - you have invented the "Rank Xerox Parliamentaryism"!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e11362	The next speaker is Mrs Dr. Martina Gredler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e11389	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning of my contribution to the debate, I would like to put forward a motion for a resolution which, apart from the last paragraph, has the agreed text of the Federal Government. That's why I allow myself to read it. [[Quoted print version removed]] We have selected the first quarter of 1999 so that we have the opportunity to try to find a security policy option for the next millennium here in Austria together. There would have been no point in giving only two months to do so. I hope that it will be in this House's interests if we come to a common solution on this issue. Now I would like to ask Mr Wabl of the Green Group how the Greens' security efforts are going. [[Abg. Wabl: Read the conclusions!]] This book is very informative. I have the seven options in front of me. There are options 4, 5 and 6. Paragraph 4 concerns active neutrality, which concludes: Politically united are the Social Democrats, the Greens and Voices from the Conservative Camp. Furthermore, option number 5 is used for the model of peace zones, unarmed neutrality and unilateral disarmament: Today, this model is represented mainly by pacifists and antimilitaryists, critical peace researchers and parts of the Greens. Next, option number 6 comes the upgrade of UN and collective neutrality through a global security system: The UN option supports representatives of the SPÖ and the Greens. [[Abg. Wabl: It doesn't mean "discussion report", but "Option report"!]] Mr Wabl! I would ask you to tell the House either what you want or at least give us a private body - which would probably be very funny with you anyway. But I fear that the Greens' position in this report is a little confusing. [[Abg. Wabl: Dear Mrs Gredler! That you're confused, I understand.]] What the Liberal Forum aims to achieve is clearer: full membership in the WEU and a Joint Committee Foreign and security policy in the European Union, which is the first condition for the Western European Union. There we would like to work together. I do not dispute that there is a umbilical cord to NATO. I would just like to keep this umbilical cord as flexible and thin as possible and not have an amalgam between the Europeans and the Americans without flexibility. [[Abg. Wabl: Do you know what happens when the umbilical cord breaks? – The death of the child is the result! If a umbilical cord breaks, it's devastating!]] It won't break because it's a gallard-like mass that's flexible. You should know that. She still has a very nutritious character. [[Abg. Wabl: These are the inflammations that Mr Moser is constantly presenting!]] Mr. Moser's not a doctor. But when it comes to umbilical cords, I can assure you that's what I learned. You can trust me more than Mr. Moser. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You're right! You learned that!]] I have learned that, even though I have not dominated Latin to acquire this matter, Mr. Khol! Now I'm coming to the end. In the request of the Freedom Party there is something about the "Moscow wing of the SPÖ" (Fischer, Kostelka u. a.). - Now I don't know. There is supposed to be a "cuba group", Mr Scheibner said earlier at the speaker's desk. [[Abg. Scheibner: That was a mistake! It's a Moscow wing!]] There is a "Toskana Group", and there is also a "Moscow Wing". [[Abg. Wabl: International!]] With the Socialist Group, I no longer know: Is this a political group, or are they more? I would ask the President, in his next contribution to the debate, to make it clear from this speaker's point of view, which party he belongs to in this House. I think I can still address him as a Social Democratic, but I admit that I am a little confused.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e11579	The only thing I am making clear right now is that the motion for a resolution is properly supported and under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Gaál. Voluntary speaking time: 5 minutes. I'm sorry, I was wrong: Mr Wabl is speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e11606	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! In order to reduce the confusion, perhaps I am successful, Mrs Gredler: It's called "Option en report" and not "Option report". These are a number of options, which are discussed in a democracy and which are being illuminated by various sides. We Greens do not have the arrogance of the ÖVP, who chooses and writes a red and white-red background on the cover sheet of their option report: The report. [[The speaker shows a copy of the ÖVP's option report.]] Everything else is macular and contains contentious things. But the ÖVP calls its report "The Report", written on red and white-red background. This includes: "Austrian security." There is nothing about the ÖVP, because the ÖVP is practically a state party. That's her identity. This is similar to the klestil with its campaign assistants. That's where the identity is given. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Austria is pink for you!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I have found some very interesting approaches in the FPÖ's urgent request. We should really deal seriously with this request. I believe that this contains a number of interesting aspects which we should continue to pursue consistently. Ladies and gentlemen! The FPÖ writes a very interesting list on page 3 of its urgent request, and it states that: "A accession to NATO is mainly done by the Moscow wing of the SPÖ..." - we have already discussed this - so that this step would not mean any security gain for Austria. The arguments for this are more than weak." Mr Scheibner! Let us take a look at these arguments. They say that there are weak arguments. That's what it says: "With UN, EU and OSCE membership, we would be fully integrated and involved in the development of a European security system." What's weak about that? [[Abg. Scheibner: Because that's not true! Read the next page, where these things will be outraged!]] So that's not true. They're depressing it. Good. [[Abg. Scheibner: Because that's not enough!]] I'll ask you later what you mean by NATO. We'll be right there. But we can actually talk about it right away, because you're talking about NATO, where it says: "NATO itself is becoming more and more a comprehensive security system. In addition to the purely military defence mandate, it has an ever-increasing role as the player of crisis prevention and crisis management" - it is true! - "in the context of UN operations." [[Abg. Scheibner: That's right!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's right!]] Now I ask you: If I am fully integrated into the UN, i.e. into the framework, and NATO is a sub-matter, what is more reasonable: full integration into the UN or integration into NATO? [[Abg. Scheibner: Quantum teaching would not harm you so you could understand! That's what you're learning in folk school! The UN does not provide a security guarantee!]] Mr Scheibner! I just wanted to clarify the confusion of the concept a little. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Scheibner.]] Secondly, as a weak argument: "NATO is a military alliance and thus an instrument of the 'cold war'..." [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] A military alliance - that's it, isn't it? [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Who?]] NATO. Or isn't she? [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Also!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Not just!]] Here you go, Mr Maitz! Mr Maitz! You will be able to tell me a hundred times that the Styria is not a Principality, I know. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: A Duchy!]] But that NATO is not a military alliance, it is a peace institute, I do not believe. I still know this terminology from times when people are marching and "Ho, ho, Ho Chi-Minh!" I called you. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: A Security Community for Peace, Freedom and Military Defense!]] There was always talk of the largest peace organization in the East. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic:... the NATO country Turkey!]] Mr Maitz, this is debated. You should call things the way they are. You can only check them in reality. And I do not have the impression that NATO is a peace institution. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: I already do! That's right!]] But we can take a look at it again and see how peacefully people organize themselves there. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: 28 European countries know this!]] I would also like to say something to Mr Haider. Actually, I would be interested in what he did when Mr. Student Fischer "Ho Chi-Minh!" He called and marched against the Vietnam war, whether Mr. Haider was still worshiping the "Worship Father" Jahn at the time. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] But maybe we could do some history research and see what that was like back then. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Jahn and Ho Chi-Minh?]] But, Mr Scheibner, let us read on: "At NATO accession, foreign soldiers would be stationed in Austria." [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Fit better!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: That's not true!]] Mr Scheibner, what is wrong with that? [[Abg. Scheibner: It's not true!]] Ah, that's not right. That is, every NATO member has the soldiers in his own country. Is that so? Is that how it is handled in NATO? [[Abg. Scheibner: During exercises...!]] In exercises there is practice elsewhere. [[Abg. Scheibner: There is no stationing in the new member countries!]] They mean that the station is not forever, but only succeeds in between, then if there are exercises, then we will also practice in our beautiful troop practice. Mr Scheibner, you should tell those who live next to major troop training places. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Next point: "The cost of national defence would rise in NATO." Mr Kostelka has proposed today that they should make up three and a half to four billion schillings. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's not true!]] Deputies! I know that your coalition partner is often wrong, and you are not entirely in agreement on this question. But what happened in the National Defence Council? - 10 billion schillings were decided there to make the start-up business with NATO. 10 billion schilling, almost 11 billion schilling, exactly 10.8 billion schilling costs the entry-level business with NATO. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: This is a primitive assumption!]] Mr Maitz, you know very well how kind and subjective You told the headmaster of NATO that you would do everything right away so that the other business would be fine as well. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Complete nonsense!]] I can remember how your colleague from Bavaria came and said: Perhaps, Mr Maitz, Austria could consider buying the Eurofighter and not a Saab or a Mirage or any F 14 or F 16 or anything else. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: I'll invite you, at the end of June we'll go to NATO's headquarters.]] It was your NATO friends there and they said: My God, Mr Maitz, could we not discuss the Eurofighter? [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Drive to the headquarters, there you can find out!]] Deputies! Should I look at the peace facilities there? Go, Mr Maitz, please, don't be angry at NATO for a visit to peacekeeping! [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: You can find out about it in the headquarters!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Wabl wants to keep his prejudices!]] Deputies! You know, the peace institutions of NATO, they are so credible... [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: I'll invite you!]] [[Abg. Arbitrator: You invite NATO, Mr. Maitz?]] Next point: "Austria should be a NATO member in armed conflicts." What's wrong with that? Mr Scheibner, what is wrong with the argument that Austria should be a NATO member in armed conflicts? - Must be. [[Abg. Scheibner: "Must" isn't right!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: No! Read article 5, where it says that you do not have to put off soldiers!]] You can also pay, you can send devices, or what about the assistance pact? [[Abg. Scheibner: You have to support! You can decide for yourself!]] You have to support it. You can also send beautiful letters or peace pigeons, for example, as Mr Maitz always thinks. What are you doing in the assistance package? What are you doing? The FPÖ sends its commanders to or from something similar. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Go, Mr Scheibner, please, don't be ridiculous! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: You're making fun of yourself!]] I'm in favour of you pouring pure wine. NATO accession means, of course, assistance, what else? [[Abg. Scheibner: But not with soldiers! Not necessarily!]] That means all NATO members will say: Please, we're NATO members, but we're not sending soldiers! [[Abg. May. Firlinger: We will send the Wabl!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: You decide that yourself!]] Then Germany sends none, France none, America none, Italy none, even Austria of course none. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: We send the Wabl, that is enough!]] All stand in a row and say: We're not sending! We are sending peace-doves, Mr Maitz's peace-making institutions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] Mr Scheibner. I appreciate it when you say that the model of the liberals of accession to NATO is. But please, tell the people in Austria what that means! Tell people that this also means stationation and exercises by foreign soldiers on Austrian territory! [[Abg. Scheibner: We already have exercises! Don't be so blind!]] You're right. In the criticism of the SPÖ, you are right where the coroner always goes up and goes in juice and only more hidden behind the thin facade of Mr Fassleven, where you can already see through this milk glass. Ladies and gentlemen, you're right about your criticism of the SPÖ. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] I still have to read our motion for a resolution - otherwise it will happen to me the same as yesterday. [[Abg. Scheibner: What is your opinion now?]] [[Quoted print version removed]] I'm excited about what...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e12239	The speaking time is over. At most, half a final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e12254	I am excited what the Social Democratic Party of Austria...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e12288	The motion for a resolution is appropriate. I call Mr Gaál. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e12306	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Among other things, in the urgent request of the liberals is the sentence: "This new security policy situation is due to the need to rethink the previous security architecture from scratch." - That's right! That is what we are doing, ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party! We also know that the new challenges to our security policy come from areas not necessarily related to military defence. Therefore, security means all measures that ensure a life-free and life-worthy existence for humans. Therefore, we Socialists are rightly based on the comprehensive security concept, which goes far beyond the military sphere, which also includes the social, economic and economic dimension. Therefore, those who demand membership in NATO or in the WEU and who call it an essential prerequisite for our security forget that security can no longer be defined exclusively in military terms. Only in the event of the failure of all the peaceful means of dealing with the conflict can it be necessary, in the final consequence, to use military means of peacekeeping or to restore peace. In European security policy, military importance - and all those who are serious about this issue - has become another. Both NATO and the WEU are as military alliances - they are, and that is nothing bad in itself - in their present form, unable to take the preventive measures for comprehensive security. NATO is a well-functioning military institution, but it cannot and will not be the new European security architecture. There is therefore no compelling need for us to join NATO, because, we know, accession to NATO does not lead to a greater degree of security, but only to a reduction in our security margin. Just as the WEU and NATO are still structured today, there can be nothing there without the will of the larger Member States, and such a foreign determination by the larger NATO member countries cannot be in our interest in the question of defence. Today, neutrality has also been referred to or claimed to be non-safety. Ladies and gentlemen! It is undisputed that neutrality has changed in recent years. But it is precisely a changed neutrality, which, of course, is compatible with the United Nations mandate and allows for sanctions, which is very likely to be future-looking. Ladies and gentlemen! We Austrians are in good company in neutrality policy, because four of the 15 Member States in the European Union, namely Sweden, Finland, Ireland and Austria, are under arrest on the idea of neutrality. The neutral behaviour is not to participate in military struggles and not to enter into any assistance obligations under a military alliance, nor - that is right - to station foreign troops on their own territory. Ladies and gentlemen! We therefore see no need in the circumstances at present to enter into negotiations in your request so that accession to NATO can take place at the earliest possible time. I am convinced that we will find a common position with our coalition partner on this undoubtedly important issue, even if the first attempt and effort have not worked out completely. I should also like to point out that yesterday, by the decision of the National Action Plan on Employment, the Federal Government has proved that it is possible to reach a common solution on important key issues affecting people - and employment is such. Similarly, we will also succeed in security policy, namely a common solution in the interests and benefit of the security of Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e12358	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Mock. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e12374	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! If we discuss the issue of security of Austria again today, I must say that this is one of the very important political issues, and I wonder, if it is sometimes said, that there are more up-to-date issues, more important questions, full employment, investment issues, social progress. We know, ladies and gentlemen, what happens when there are insecurity and conflicts, wars break out. Then jobs and other concerns hardly have a place, neither in the minds of people nor in the reality of politics. In addition: Once we are wrong in security policy, it can become existential, so we often cannot reform. If one is wrong in economic policy, one can recover what has been lost, at least occasionally. Security issues are questions of existence, of which we must be aware. Although I am not in favour of the opposition and like the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, I am grateful that it has submitted the urgent request, but I am glad that it will be discussed, because the more it is discussed, the more informed it will be, the more people will discover the importance of this question, which all depends on it. We will go a similar way as we did when we joined the European Union. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let us learn from history, ladies and gentlemen. 60. The 12th Anniversary of the 12th. ==References== Nobody helped Austria, no one! There was only the famous telegram of the Mexicans, in which protests against the annexion and occupation of Austria were protested. No one was willing to help us! Shortly after: Munich agreements. Not only did we break the 'SSR' at the time, but it was also approved in two parliaments by a large majority of this agreement. You can't say that any more today. Opportunism is too big to be able to follow wishful thinking in international space, but we must learn from the past that we must be realist. Nothing is as dangerous in international space as being an illusionist if you only have wishful thoughts around you. That's what Yugoslavia has shown. First of all, it said: No military solution. For months mood was made against military solutions. Only after Srebrenica - 15,000 people, especially old people, civilians were killed - did NATO intervene and stop killing. If you hadn't been looking for a military solution for six months, you'd probably have come to the same murderous result at Biha%, then you would have had a big scarf. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Exactly!]] And such solutions that started with "great" have always had a fatal perspective. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] Mr Kostelka! You have about said - if I quote correctly - that you do not want to have a peace-keeping action or similar for Europe in the American Senate in Washington. I was glad that the Senate had already interfered in the Second World War, helped in Europe to avoid another option that would have been terrible. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] I was glad that the Marshall Plan was built up, approved in the Senate to give us the substance to survive the pressure of the East at that time. [[New applause with the ÖVP and with the liberals.]] I was glad that the double rocket decision was practically passed by the German Chancellor Dr. Schmidt by his own people. I was glad up to Bosnia, where America - thank God! - said we were still going - originally they did not want - because in Europe we were unable to solve the problems in this way. What have the women done in Srebrenica, who recently demonstrated because their dead - who are still lying in the woods somewhere else - have not been buried? They have been wearing plates with the inscription: "Help NATO!" [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] I do not want to abuse someone who is often very emotional in his pain, but they are the important witnesses for me, which works, which helps. The fact is that people will notice when non-acting leads to the dead, to hundreds of thousands of refugees and other orphans who have to leave their home country. We should finally learn from history! I've got the 12th. ==References== What about the Baltic countries, ladies and gentlemen? Who helped the Baltic countries? No one helped them! I am even away from the point of view of condemning everyone else, because at the time they did not deal with the murderous connection between Moscow and Berlin, between Molotov and Ribbentrop, between Hitler and Stalin. What would that mean if one had stood up for the Baltic countries? But we need to know that these dangers are constantly lurking, are there again and again, and we should get the maximum of security for our country, namely our country and our citizens, to give maximum security. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] I don't understand, ladies and gentlemen. In all the different opinions there are, no one has told me yet: If we have to defend ourselves in a union in which Americans, Englishmen and others are involved, we are safer than if we have to defend ourselves alone. And the question has been asked us in this context: Do we believe that we alone are safer with the means we spend, or in association with others? We must also be able to give a political answer if we are to say again and again: Of course it is! I'm not for this restraint. If it really is about the country, its well-being and its security, ladies and gentlemen, then I am in favour of us very much - with all the legitimate rights of the opposition, of course, which are always pleased to make proposals - trying to reach a broad consensus on this question, that we are trying, with all clarity, to gain the approval of many. All the more firmly, then, this solution. Only if we are co-runners, so to speak, jump on the train, do not do anything to do that, we cannot determine - the reputation determines the others, ladies and gentlemen. If we are in favour of solidarity in the fight against major crime, for solidarity in the fight against other civilisation problems, then we should also be in favour of solidarity when it comes to aggression and to rejecting it. [[Abg. Wabl: NATO should be subordinated to the UN and not to the American Senate!]] [[Abg. Dr Gredler: It's gonna be hard!]] In addition to many weaknesses, the UN has so many advantages that I do not wish to raise them in this context. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am optimistic, ladies and gentlemen. We'll do that, too. The only question is whether we can't make it too late. That's the problem. It is increasingly slowing down with the EU and also with NATO to include new candidates. We would still be welcome. We have missed the first round - one must occasionally pay a price for it. Let us see that this time the window will be opened and closed again in time. Let's not miss it! We have done it several times to benefit from the "window situation": A year later no state agreement would have been possible, six months later no South Tyrol package would have been possible. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Right!]] It may also be with NATO that the Americans once say: Well, now is the end! We are not the permanent nurses of the Europeans if they themselves do not succeed. I am in favour of European solutions, but in full partnership with those who have so far demonstrated their concern for human rights and peace.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e12488	The next speaker was Mrs Petrovic. The remaining speaking time of the Greens is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e12515	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! In order not to embarrass the President and myself afterwards, I make a request. [[Quoted print version removed]] This option report has been distributed to you all. It is based on the proven safety concept, the modern security concept of Austrian neutrality and a constantly developing active neutrality policy. The incidental behaviour, especially at the Austrian People's Party, was very remarkable now. It was also very remarkable that some - and not at all - voted in favour of the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, who, in my opinion, has today made a very clear and very clear statement. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Mrs. Oberlehrer evaluates this!]] That must now also be followed by actions. We have often missed them. But this statement gives rise to the hope that these acts will now also follow. But now, just as clearly, you have applauded a completely different statement on the right side of the line. So obviously you are not aware of how Austrian security is to be guaranteed. One thing Mr Mock said very clearly and, in my view, very correctly: NATO intervened in Bosnia - to Srebrenica. And the word "after" is that which corresponds to a very typical military logic, Mr. Deputies. And that will never be different if the logic of security only follows the military calculation. [[Abg. Großruck: Don't teach Dr. Mock!]] We made the effort at a federal congress of the Greens and discussed it very thoroughly with a former NATO general. And he has confirmed exactly that, precisely this serious difference to a police protection mission, which may occasionally be Ultima ratio, but which, however, always and even if the situation is almost hopeless, is in principle and categorically applicable to the enforcement of human rights. The opposite is a military logic, which then intervenes if the military chances are favourable if the opponent is already weakened when a country is bleeding out. Mr Maitz! I also speak here as a family of displaced and killed people, and I can tell you one thing: This picture, this jubilation of NATO is not shared by the Bosnians. Many have asked themselves: How long did you wait? Why did you wait? What were the military strategic interests? [[Live calls to the ÖVP.]] Would it not have been necessary, ladies and gentlemen, by the ÖVP, to have an economic, a political, a social intervention in 1989 when Kosovo was de facto conquered? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] They always come when it's too late. That's the logic of the military! [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: What did the women in Kosovo keep up to date? – "NATO help!" "Where is NATO?"]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Would you like more murders in Kosovo?]] [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] Mr Maitz! Tell the Austrians: We are also in favour of combating crime! - With your 500 tanks of 11.3 billion schilling? How do you fight the wealth gap? With interception hunters, Mr Maitz? [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: "Where is NATO?" The women in Kosovo have asked, and not: Where is Mrs Petrovic? She didn't need anyone!]] Keep it like the Foreign Minister's, that you say: The blouses, what are they doing to us? We lock off a military cordon with 500 new tanks! Panzers, ladies and gentlemen, around 11 billion schillings, which we lack in social policy. Social policy, environmental policy and preventive crisis management - this is security policy today, not uplifting and shooting.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e12655	The motion for a resolution which has just been read is properly tabled and supported accordingly, and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Gusenbauer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 6 minutes remaining speaking time. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e12673	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Today's debate has shown that the initial excitement of Mr Scheibner was not necessary. It also does not bring the Austrian population More safety, but only try to continue a game with sunken cards, which has now been running for several months, unhindered. If I recapitulate what his argument was, then I have to say that I was quite amused when his view has fallen somewhat enlightened on NATO as an institution of completely selfless pacifists, in which it is not at all about interests in which it is not at all about zones of influence and in which one has wondered when at last the first NATO general will exchange its uniform with grossly knitted sheep's socks. This is how he presented NATO's peace apostemite. [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: This has even happened! This has already happened in Germany!]] Ah, it's already happened. Bastian, I know. On the other hand, if, of course, there are unchanged doctrines at NATO - including the initial use of nuclear weapons as regards the stationing of foreign troops - that there is increased costs, the Scheibner colleague says: It's all lying, it's not true! He even says something that's much, much more angry: The previous participation of Austria in cooperations with NATO - this is actually the much more dangerous one, because there are combat missions, there is real commitment, struggle and so on. So he wants to suggest: If you're in NATO, you're in the "Schafwoollsockenidylle", while on the other hand, if you're cooperating with NATO, you're in a permanent battle commitment. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! With this, Mr Scheibner has really set new standards, but standards in the attempt to manipulate public opinion. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The right thing is, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen, the old NATO doctrine is still based on the adoption of a Soviet invasion in Europe. This is the old NATO doctrine. This makes NATO well prepared for a threat that no longer exists. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Grossruck and Dr Maitz.]] No, I agree that NATO wants to get away from it, but it's not gone yet. We do not know when it may be gone, but we know that there are very different ideas about the further development of NATO. You just need to make the effort - the more often people of you go over the big pond - to get around in the USA, which is to be the new function of NATO. And here I do not hear what I hear here in Parliament, but there I hear something completely different. I hear that Europe's defence has actually become obsolete due to the collapse of the Iron Curtain and that it is about operating the so-called common interests on a global scale, which is outside Europe. What does that mean? - This means that out-of-area operations will be dominant, the use of troops outside the European territory. This means that it is about moving troops out of Europe as quickly as possible. This means, of course, that we are being converted from land-based to marine and air-based nuclear weapons. These are the clear ideas that exist in many circles of the United States today, as in the other cases - and this must also be said in the debate - not always when human rights are violated, the international peace unit of NATO comes immediately and there provides for law and order, but only in very selected cases, where there is also an identity of interest with individual national and, above all, American interests. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Especially in Bosnia! There is no oil in Bosnia!]] It must also be legitimate, without being primitively accused of asking whether European and American interests will be so identical in all parts of the world that there is always a common approach. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: You would have watched for months how the women are raped!]] I believe there should be cooperation with the USA, but we must see where there are different interests. These require a stronger European organisation, which requires that the trampled paths of the cold war be left from NATO to Warsaw Pact. The Amsterdam Treaty provides a favourable basis for this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: No facts!]] The Austrian population wants to develop our concept of neutrality and solidarity. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: This is from yesterday!]] This desire and will of the Austrian population is the political mission of social democracy.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e12779	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Stadler. Your club's remaining speaking time: 7 minutes - please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e12794	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I am still under the impression of the very moving speech of the Grandsigneur, the last remaining Grandsigneur in the Club of the Austrian People's Party, Dr. Alois Mock. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I regret, Mr Dr. Mock, that you are not currently Foreign Minister of the Republic, I regret that you are not Clubobmann of the Austrian People's Party, because I am convinced that in both the one and the other role of the Austrian People's Party, Parliament and the other, you would have saved the embarrassments that Mr Mock, Pardon has instilled in you, Mr Schüssel and Mr Khol. [[Complaints with the liberals]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Abg. Dr. Khol]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is the problem of the Austrian People's Party, the problem of bowls and khol, which are unable to draw the lessons you have referred to, and courageously in the interest of the country - even if the SPÖ believes to be able to make walls; a wall which will in any case collapse - by making decisions. That would be necessary, ladies and gentlemen. That would need this country. Ladies and gentlemen! But I am also impressed by the speeches by Petrovic and Gusenbauer. - That's white cynicism. If someone has heard this, Mrs Petrovic, who was raped down there by Serbs - even without numbers - when someone heard it, what you said here, who has lost children there, when someone has heard it, who has still asked for help on the knees of Europe and has not received it, because UN soldiers have watched how women were raped and killed, when someone who has asked the European Union for help and then has only received help from NATO, I believe he has zero understanding of your cynicism, ladies and gentlemen. Believe me! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The European UN soldiers have watched a woman be slaughtered like an animal. Under the eyes of these soldiers! Only these pictures have led to the fact that NATO said: Well, now it's enough! That was Srebrenica, Mrs Petrovic! That was Srebrenica! This woman paid the price. [[Abg. Arbitrator: Wasn't a NATO decision!]] Mr. Schieder! But that's not true! The European Union has not achieved this, of which your Federal Chancellor is constantly staggering. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The people there have paid the price for it, and if it goes on, people in Kosovo will pay the next prize for it because they still do not have the European security architecture, which your Federal Chancellor is still scrambling at because he has not enforced. In Madrid he already understood - at the time he was still under the impression of Srebrenica - where the journey is going. [[Abg. Wabl: That's ridiculous!]] It has also understood Mr Swoboda where the journey is going or where it has to go. Mr Cap has also understood it, even though he may no longer be present now. He got it. A few minutes ago, Mr Gaál, under the applause of your group, Mr Schieder, said - I quote literally - that: We need to start negotiations quickly so that we can have NATO accession at the earliest possible time. That was what Mr Gaál said out here. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Scheibner.]] You have understood where the trip is going, you have understood what is necessary. But a few old Stalinists in your group do not want to understand it out of ideological blending, ladies and gentlemen. That's the problem! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party! It's not jux and solitude today. I call on you today, with this motion for a resolution which I shall now present, to clarify a number of things to the SPÖ. - It's not about persuasion. How Long Needed You still, Mr. Khol? - you started in February of the previous year in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and now you are still where you were a year ago. You will have to wait five more years if you trust in your convictions. With a SPÖ decision, make clear what the country's security priorities are. Today, with a vote that does not hurt - the SPÖ knows that this vote can and must come about - it only does not finish to implement it in its own ranks - at least in part, Mr Mock and a few in your group who have the Courage, the SPÖ clear by standing up for Austria today - for Austria and not for the FPÖ! - by agreeing to this motion for a resolution that it is harmful to Austria's behaviour! [[Complaints with the liberals]] Maybe she understands it. Therefore, on behalf of my group, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! That's not too much. But today it would be a signal to your coalition partner, a signal he will understand, a signal that Austria will understand, and it is a signal that comes from deeply convinced patriots, ladies and gentlemen! That is why I ask you today - this has nothing to do with coalition plots -: Make it clear that in Austria the clocks are running in such a way that Austrian interests are faced with any partyideological interests!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e12925	The motion for a resolution which has just been put forward is properly tabled, duly supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Gaál referred to an actual correction. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e12949	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Stadler said: I should like to quote Mr Gaál, who said that negotiations should be held so that accession to NATO can take place at the earliest possible time. I can correct you, Mr Stadler. I said: We Socialists therefore see no need in the circumstances at present to enter into negotiations in your request so that accession to NATO can take place at the earliest possible time. - It's available in writing.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e12984	Mr Dr. Lukesch has been reported on the floor. Rest of the time of your club: 1 minute. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e13002	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Mr Stadler! Respect for your respect for our former Federal Party and Foreign Minister. But the position of the ÖVP on security issues, as taken by Wolfgang Schüssel and Klubobmann Andreas Khol, is quite clear and covers up with what former Foreign Minister Mock has said here. [[Abg. Scheibner: Very shaky!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We want a broad consensus on security issues, including and above all with the population. However, we do not want Austria to degenerate to the white spot on the European map. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Then agree!]] We want to discuss these security issues in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which brings us forward. [[Abg. Scheibner: You've had years!]] We want to convince our coalition partner and, of course, his electorate, but we do not overreact. [[Abg. Aumayr: Don't lose!]] And I am fully convinced that there is no European security policy without NATO.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e13083	No one is reporting on this. That concludes the debate. We are entering the voting procedure, and I ask the honourable Members to take their seats. We are now voting on the self-employed amendment 748/A (E) by Mr Scheibner and Mr Comrades on the opening of negotiations with the Contracting Parties to the North Atlantic Treaty on the accession of Austria to the NATO Treaty. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. - This is the minority. Rejected. We shall also proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Members. Chamberlanders and comrades concerning the immediate holding of a referendum on the ever-increasing neutrality of Austria and the future of Austrian security policy. If you would like to join this request, I would ask for an appropriate sign. - This is the minority. Rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Hans Helmut Moser and Mr Comrades on the conclusion of further options for Austria in the context of European security structures. In the case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. - This is the minority. Rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Wabl and Mr Comrades on the package of tanks. In the case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. - This is the minority. Rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Petrovic and Mr Comrades on the Green Options Report. In the case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. - This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Stadler and comrades concerning Austria's security. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must also be taken. I therefore proceed in this way, and we use the voting papers marked with "yes" and "no" and the names. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I am looking for those Members who are in favour of the request of the honourable Member. Stadler and comrades are, "Yes" vote, those who vote against to throw "No" vote in the urn. I now ask Mrs Schreitzer, Member of the European Parliament, to begin the call for name; Mrs Applebeck will replace her afterwards.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e13194	The vote will end. The members of the House responsible for this task will now make the number of votes under the supervision of the experts. To this end, I am interrupting the session for a short time.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e13227	I will resume the interrupted session after not only has been counted but also very thoroughly controlled, and I would like to thank the applause, which, of course, applies to the controllers and narrators. [[Congratulation with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ and ÖVP]] I now announce the results of the vote: There were 162 votes, 36 "Yes" votes and 126 "No" votes. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Wabl: Bravo!]] The motion for a resolution by the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Stadler and comrades are therefore rejected. According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. With "Yes", the Members voted: Apple beck, Aumayr; Blünegger, Böhacker, Brauneder; Dolnschek; Förlinger; Gaugg, Grollitsch; Haider, Haller, Chief, Hofmann; Koller, Krüger, Kurzmann; Lauter; Madl, Meisinger; Nut trees; Of which: Partik-Pablé, Povysil, Preisinger, Prinzhorn, Pumberger; Reichhold, Rosenstingl; Salzl, Scheibner, Schöggl, Schreiner, Schweitzer, Stadler; Trattner; Wenitsch. With 'No', the Members voted: Ablinger, Achs, Amon, Antoni, Auer, Barmüller, Bauer Rosemarie, Bauer Sophie, Binder, Brinek, Brix, Buder, Bures; Donabauer; Eder, Edler, Ellwall; Fekter, Feurstein, Fink, Fischer, Freser, Fuchs, Fuhrmann; Gaal, Gazner, Gatterer, Grabner, Gradwelt, Gredler, Großruck, Guggenberger, Gusenbauer, Hagenhofer, Haidlmayr, Heindl, Heinzl, Hlavac, Höchtl, Horngacher, Huber, Hums; hunters; Kaipel, Kammerlander, Kampichler, Karlsson, Kaufmann, Doppelmüller, Khol, Kiermaier, Kiss, König, Konrad, Koppler, Kostelka, Krammer, Herbs, Kukacka, Kummerer, Kurzbauer; Lacner, Langthaler, Leikam, Leiner, Löschnak, Luke; Maier, Maitz, Marizzi, Mertel, Mock, Morak, Moser Hans Helmut, Moser Sonja, Motter, Mühlbachler, Müller, Murauer; Niederwieser, Novotny, Nürnberger; Oberhaidinger, oillinger; Perfuss, Parnigoni, Peter, Petrovic, Pittermann, Platter, Posch, Puttinger; Rada, riding, Riepl; Sauer, Schaffenrath, Schirder, Schrefel, Schuster, Schwarzenberger, Schwemmlein, Schwimmer, Seidinger, Sigl, Spindelegger, Stampler, Steibl, Steindl, Stippel, Stoisits, Stummful; Tegischer, Tichy-Schreiter, Drinkl, Tychtl; Van der Bellen, Vergestnitsch; Wabl, Wallner, Wimmer, Worm, Wormitzer; Zweytick. ***** Short debate on the reply to the question 3595/AB
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e13281	We are now entering a short debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for Justice with the order number 3595/AB. The answer to the question has already been distributed, so that a reading by the author is not necessary. We are going into the debate. I make the following time limits according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure: First speakers on the grounds of a maximum of 10 minutes, each speaker a maximum of 5 minutes, opinions by the members of the Federal Government or by word of the State Secretary shall not exceed 10 minutes. I now ask Mr Morak to sign the request to open the debate. The speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e13312	Mr President. Minister! I'm convinced: Nothing needs the cultural debate less than a resurgence or a perpetuating of the Mühl debate. However, in my opinion, the matter of criminal law is virulent and should not have been eaten by us. In its kind this was a parallel case to the affair of Lucona, crowned by a happening in the state theatres. A personality who at the time flattered on the bread of social democracy, for breakfast, for lunch and dinner, from Kreisky to the smallest social potentials of Burgenland, M. has understood to withdraw himself from the list, violence, bribery and judicial settlement of these offences to a good part or to a good bad part - as you want - because in the trial only the tip of the iceberg was negotiated, simply by making enormous payments. I refer in this connection to the book by Andreas Schlothauer, which was known in 1992 because it was published in 1992 - in the middle of the hot debate. This Chinese wall or this Chinese machination around the "Friedrichshof", this protective wall made of red brick is a special-class Burgenian mourning game. Today we know that the Burgenian law enforcement authorities would not have awakened a kiss of the world from their thorny sleep. You've had to step a few times before that they've woke up. - Why do you think? If, in criminal proceedings, as is still in the room and is still not opposed, witnesses and victims are held massively by their statements of money, this means that there has been determination with elementary sloppyness. Because this is not about discreet payments in the back room, about discreet agreements in a back room, here it is about 17.4 million schilling. They have flown so that former residents and former victims will keep their mouth shut. And that's what I'm throwing before the law enforcement authority: It would be 1992 - 1992! - in the event of some effort by the persecuting authorities, some reading of the literature was possible that they had discovered this crime. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's the point!]] Now, however, we read in your reply, the matter has been done in good Austrian, it has died from age weakness - because it has been delayed. And at some point, someone will give an answer somewhere and somehow and write a report that no one will probably read. Of course, we are looking forward to this, but perhaps we should call the players in front of the curtain again. If we do not already clarify the criminal responsibility in this case, then we should deal with the political situation again. It was, of course, red politicians who held the protective hand over Mr Mühl. It was Mr Kreisky, Mr Sinowatz, Mr Blecha, Mrs Hawlicek and Mr Kery. And to you, dear Josef Cap, it would be very good to ask not only: Who and what are you shooting in the basement, dear Kery?, but you could have asked a little later: What did you do at the Peace Court, Comrade Kery? [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] I must tell you that for a long time your people thought it was a social utopian experiment, which was just a shabby social dictatorship. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e13353	We are now going into the debate. The speaking time per speaker is now up to 5 minutes. Mr Cap has been reported to speak. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e13382	Mr President. High house! I would really like to say to Vehemenz that my previous speaker, probably in recognition of his role, presents himself here more as an inquisitor and not as a cultural speaker, who represents justice as a sort of mühl-kumpanin. I would like to add: I have nothing left but to give a defense speech for Mühl as an artist, as a human being, or anything else. I have already said here that I have vehement criticism, and there is nothing to defend. But what is being done here - and, interestingly, by the cultural speaker - is an attempt to intervene in a ongoing criminal procedure by making public pressure on the Minister to influence in any way. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Now the defense speech begins!]] And this procedure also has some kind of, and should be limited, the component of a pre-condemnification. And the important thing here is the political direction: the many "cumpanes", which are to exist, as he said earlier, the many people who for whatever reason were always "cumpanes" of the legally condemned Otto Mühl. I have to ask myself the question: Who is this applicant, why is he doing this, and is he calling for it? He said earlier that I should have asked the question: What are you doing at the "Friedrichshof"? But I ask Franz Morak: Dear Franz Morak, what are you doing on this polydor plate you once issued? [[The speaker shows a record cover.]] And now that you've laughed so heartily, the "hidney" will just keep you in your neck. That is the fourth song on page B, and this one should make accessible to an interested audience, especially culturally interested. So who is this applicant? - I quote: "She just got up in the car in every hand a raspberry she was not yet 14 years old and that was delicate to me too hot but she was completely without grace I drove the useful she used out smooth then she cleaned me iron from power and at the traffic light she was out" For whom does he sing this? This can be seen from the last verse. I quote: "I only sing this for the philisters who are tired of turning their sledge full of money business midlife crisis only looking for the little girl" So I don't see in it the great artistic, moral authority to present myself as a cultural speaker in this request. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] But I probably have the solution in the second song of page B of this record, where he probably sang the following in advance of today's answer - because it says here: "Franz Morak: Singing", so he's mainly the singing one here; I quote - "now I smoke my last joint I give myself the last shot I drink the rest of the sect and then I just shut down I sleep with everyone who takes me and be a skewer dog I'm so happy as long as not and that's got its reason because... now I get out of now I want to get out of here is the company too tired I've been waiting for so long and don't know what I'm doing and at all I take a full bath in kerosene I'm packing up in dynamic I spreng from all the reporting cards and she'll fly them with" I think that explains everything, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e13440	Mrs Fekter is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e13458	Mr President. Minister! - Mr Cap, you can't tell that our Franz Morak is just better than you. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] Because what you did best was not even a song and, I must say, an inappropriate one given the seriousness of the issue. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Schaffenrath: Double Moral!]] You have not read the answer to the question, because otherwise you would have to know that, if something is delayed, there can be no ongoing procedure regarding a resumption or other. But you have spoken here of an ongoing procedure. - You may know more than I do. It is clear that in 1988 the sensitivity was different from that of child abuse and child abuse. Today, child injury is no longer a cavalier offence. Regrettably, however... [[Abg. Schaffenrath: That's what you say, Mrs. Fekter?]] [[Further calls to the Liberal Forum and the Greens.]] It was never a cavalier crime, Mrs Schaffenrath, but the way in which it was handled at the time leaves a certain sensitivity missing. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] Otherwise, it could not be that the environment here has been studied so little and so inaccurately and one has actually been satisfied with the punishment of the tip of the iceberg. As Mr Morak has said, it has already been very early known that payments are being made to influence witnesses. At least this suspicion was in the room - whether it could have been proved has never really been clarified. And that is why the question of why one did not examine and examine these suspicions at the time. [[Abg. Wabl: Why didn't you read the book and make an advertisement?]] I am of the opinion that, especially in the event of child abuse and particularly in the event of child abuse, these sluggishities should not occur, and that is what we criticise. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Thank God has recently spread more sensitivity to sexual abuse, victim protection and, above all, the rights of the victims. We see this at the increased display figures, because fewer and less looking away - because looking away was still incredibly "in" and incredibly modern in certain circles at the time of the Mühl conviction or the Mühl trial. But not with us! We have certainly not put this issue ad acta, because we want the sensitivity to be enhanced in this area in particular. I am very glad, Mr Minister, that in the current judicial policy there is a serious change in this regard and that a very important contribution to victim protection is being given to your area at present.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e13562	The next speaker was Mr Krüger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e13581	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I think I must clarify a lot about this question at the beginning of my debate. I would like to focus briefly on the argument made by my previous speakers. Mr Cap said that this question was either a question of law or a question because it was involved in an ongoing procedure. Now, I think it is in line with Parliament's autonomy and with every Member's request to make a request at any time and at any time. I believe that this self-restriction should not be imposed on us, for there we would cut ourselves in our right hand. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Cap! I have to say quite honestly, as an expert in the field of justice, that you will admit to me: I have this high respect for justice, that I am sure that justice will not be influenced by a question of criminal proceedings in the course of the proceedings and in the case of legal proceedings. Mr Fekter has spoken of the fact that Mr Cap's argument is completely absurd that no ongoing criminal proceedings are being taken, because the offences have already been delayed. - Col. Fekter! If you had read the Minister's answer to the question, you would have recognized that there is currently an ongoing procedure for § 153, i.e. infidelity. And as you know as a judge of your party, unfaithfulness is subject to damage of more than 1 million schillings or 500 000 s - I don't know exactly now - a ten-year limitation, and there is no limitation here. So, please, you should know that as a judicial speaker of your party! There is a ongoing procedure against Mr Mühl and any fellow perpetrators because of the suspicion of infidelity in connection with payments of 17 or 18 million schilling. Ladies and gentlemen! In total - and this statement I am now addressing to Red and Black - the whole debate on the reply to the question is nothing but a distraction. Mr Cap has dealt with some of Mr Morak's songs. That wasn't even humorous for my terms, it was just deep. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: (in the direction of Abg. That's from him!]] It was deep, but it unfortunately corresponds to your styling agent. I wonder if we can take so little seriously in this House. Next, someone quotes some school essays from the folk school just to flick someone on the stuff. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: But that was also very deep!]] I would have expected, Mr Cap, that you would find clear words in the condemnation of Mr Mühl and in political responsibility. And that's what I'm with my colleague Morak. He rightly exhorts the political responsibility - the original quote. I'm just wondering, What is the political responsibility, Mr Morak? In whose resort does the Museum of Applied Art fall, a museum that immediately after Otto Mühl's release from detention gave Otto Mühl the widest opportunity to exhibit his pictures? Who's doing that? Who approves? In whose sphere of influence does that lie? [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That was the Noever! Gehrer disapproved of it!]] Mrs Gehrer is responsible for this. And if one asks for political responsibility, then one must confess to say: I disapprove of that. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: She did that!]] That's not enough. She said in committee that the Otto Mühl was not really well served. That's not enough! There must be political consequences. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And these political consequences do not attract them. Mr. Noever is likely to be up to his 65th birthday. I've been in the museum for a lifetime. And since it doesn't matter that he says in connection with the dispensation debate, the MAK and the public museums are being sent to the line and he is opposed to the distribution. In the Committee's later report, he spoke of the fact that he felt that the distribution was so successful. And the second political responsibility, and that is the more serious, is that the oeuvre of Otto Mühl - if there is one thing at all - is each one to choose for himself - is an oeuvre of fine art, but not of performing art. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Right!]] This is the scandal in connection with the appearance at the Burgtheater. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group! I have seen contributions by Mr Peymann on Dutch television, for example, when he said that German Chancellor climate only drew art competence in order to release him. - They're your people! This is according to the motto:...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e13677	The final sentence, please, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e13693	... "The spirits I called, I won't let them go." This has been a last act of evil against the Peymann of Social Democracy. - You have this from your solidarity with a Peymann and also partly with a mill!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e13720	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Barmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e13738	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mein Ladies and gentlemen! As regards the explanation for those who still follow this debate here today: What is happening here is a meeting of an answer to a question. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Oh, that's it! I didn't know why I was sitting here!]] Mrs Mertel! If you listen to the individual speeches, then you will realize that someone who is not familiar with the processes of this House - and here still some who listen - will not know what it was about. If the Federal Minister has not answered a question properly, the discussion of a question will be required. What is available here as an answer is not only sufficient, but it is also correct in terms of content. On the other hand, there is nothing to say that has always been the case. And this as an occasion to delay the debate on women's people's desire so that it no longer enters the 'ZiB 1', probably only a matter of concern, ladies and gentlemen. But if, from the speaker's point of view, the ÖVP's Justice Spokesman says that the environment has to be examined what has been the case in the case of mills and consorts, I will tell you: If this is a concern in connection with child abuse, then first examine the environments that exist around Groër and Consorten - no, to Groër and friends. That would be appropriate. Because you also know that what happened in this case is repeated again and again. So if you don't want to speak a double morale here, go into this area. If we take this debate offensively, then more would come out than if you quoted the Federal Minister at an hour that it is not necessary for a question answer which is completely correct. That's where you abused the Rules of Procedure. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e13800	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e13818	Federal Minister! Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Three comments on a discussion that is absolutely not appropriate today. I do not want to repeat what Mr Barmüller said. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: Is it not true?]] I just don't want to repeat what you said! First to the content. - If it is criticised here that the Federal Minister has not answered this question properly and properly, then the people who obviously have no idea that it is not the subject of execution, which is the subject of questions, the Members can make business regulations and to which the Federal Minister has the opportunity to reply. It is not the subject of execution, as judges decide. - Thank God, ladies and gentlemen! I am glad that we have a sharing of powers, and this should also be the case with the ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, who immediately put this principle on board in their argument when it is only a day when we have to discuss essential things in Parliament, namely genetic engineering people's desires in the morning and women's desires for lunch. Ladies and gentlemen! That's how it was done. At lunch, more than 600 000 Austrians should be given a public discussion on what happened to their concerns in Parliament - but not in the evening! [[Abg. May. Kukacka: The FPÖ has submitted the urgent request and not we! That's where you have to criticize the FPÖ!]] And all that has taken place today, even the uninteresting and absolutely necessary debate on security policy, would not have been appropriate this afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen! However, because especially the colleagues of the ÖVP are the Grand Masters in constantly putting the opposition to a very intense interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, up to the abuse - such words are used - I would like to emphasize very specifically what has happened today. Ladies and gentlemen! I cannot resist the impression that it is not only a matter of delaying, but also of not allowing others - the opposition - debates which today have some topicality. - That's one. [[Abg. Koppler: Stop it, it's faster!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Secondly, Mr Cap: There are many who confuse art and reality. He seems to be one of them. As I evaluate Mr Morak's speech, that is one thing. But what Josef Cap did is something that a cultural speaker of a party is not worthy of. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] And thirdly, Mr Morak also has certain difficulties in positioning himself as a cultural speaker in a judicial debate. For if it is precisely on the subject of Mühl - and this is a very serious one, and everything that Otto Mühl has ever been accused of in criminal law, or perhaps is also accused of in the future, what has been known so far is something that is extremely serious; I am speaking here not as a cultural speaker of my group, but as a judicial speaker; there should be careful action, in every relation - as cultural speakers for a judicial response here - that some reading of literature at that time - 1992 - the law enforcement authorities must encounter certain things, then I wonder: What are the cultural speakers of the ÖVP doing? What have the cultural speakers of the ÖVP, their predecessors or you, or Mr Klubobmann, or those ladies and gentlemen who were members of the House as early as 1992? - But it's not about 1992 alone. What did you do from 1992 to 1998? Because what you're referring to did not show up yesterday, but at the time. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Morak, cultural spokesperson of the ÖVP! Literature lies - also in a positive sense. That should be said to you if you take the floor as a cultural speaker in judicial matters.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e13885	The Minister of State Dr. Michalek has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e13903	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to return to the real occasion, namely my answer to the question. However, I must reject allegations that the criminal proceedings at that time had been taken sloppy. All the accusations raised were examined at the time, and they also ruled from 14th century onwards. In November 1991, convictions were made both in respect of the infringement of the provision on the suppression of evidence and the infringement of the provision of false evidence before the Court of First Instance. The book quoted here today has not been known to me or to my competent staff so far. If someone had made it known to us or had brought the accusations in it to justice at the time, these accusations would certainly have been the subject of investigations. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Is the prosecutor acting out of office, Mr. Minister?]] Who reads a book that no one has apparently read from you up to now? - I can't figure out something I don't know about! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ, the Liberal Forum and the Greens.]] Who of the Members has known this book until recently? - No one. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: These are not prosecutors, Mr. Minister!]] However, the prosecutor does not have to read all the new publications either. That is really incomprehensible! I comply with the announcements made by the Public Prosecutor's Office of Eisenstadt, according to which she first received information on payments by means of the press releases already mentioned at the time of the request and, later, only by means of the articles of the Landesgendarmeriekommando Burgenland. The prosecutor's office has dealt with all the press releases and articles published in recent months following Otto Mühl's release. There are no grounds for resumption of the procedure at that time. New accusations or apparently new accusations were partly due to limitation, partly according to § 34 para. 2 StPO set. However, the allegations that Otto Mühl had spent 17.8 million schilling in 1988/89 for the purposes of bribery and influence of witnesses from the community's money stocks and thus as their head of money, which he could have used against the Community's pecuniary interests for his own criminal activities, were taken up, even taking into account the seven-year imprisonment which had already been imposed. 2 StPO derived opportunities would have been split. The accusation of infidelity was at the time not raised or examined in the proceedings. He is now the subject of a procedure in which the prosecutor has now applied to the investigating judge for preliminary surveys, in particular the consent of Otto Mühl and investigations by the Landesgendarmeriekommando Eisenstadt. That's all I can say about the matter right now. The results of the investigations will certainly remain for some time. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e13957	Thank you very much, Minister of State. There is now no mention of this. The debate is closed. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e13982	We will return to the negotiations on Agenda items 3 to 18. Mrs Schaffenrath is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e14000	Mr President. Mrs Prammer! I have to come back to the first part of the debate. It is clear to me that ministers in principle have the right to speak here at any time. But it is not only that the procedure was against the Uzances in this House that it really is for me - and I must tell you this - a question of courtesy and a question of fairness, how this right is actually dealt with here in this House. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] And if you and the Minister of Education, who is clearly no longer here now, as representatives of your parties in the government, had driven forward women's affairs with equal commitment, with which you have pushed yourself to the microphone today, we would certainly be a good piece further in women's policy. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] I particularly criticise the Minister for Education. We've been negotiating for 35 hours in subcommittees. She wasn't present for a minute. She was not even present at the Committee on Education and Women, although she was in the house. And then she comes here, gives a word donation and mentions various points from her programme for the promotion of girls and women. I say it again from this point of view: Not one point has been implemented. Individual events in individual places in Austria do not mean any implementation for me. Implementation means that we have a gender-conscious coordination in schools, that we have measures in the field of teacher training, that we have measures in the field of qualification of women, and not any alibiactions that serve to represent themselves. Another thing: If I want to make a positive assessment of today's action here, I consider it as an attempt at self-representation to be in the media in good time - but you have not succeeded in not reporting the "time in picture 1". If I wish to judge it negatively, Mrs Minister, I must say: You have today damaged the concern of the women's people's desire that you have put party-political calculation before an objective discussion, Mrs. Minister! They have prevented women's concerns from appearing in the print media, and they have put women's people's desire into the media situation that it is dead, and I'm sorry. I am sorry for the women who are very committed to it. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum, on the Greens and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I am pleased that there are now colleagues from the FPÖ here again, because I cannot save them an accusation either. The nature of your urgent request has made your attitude clear today. You could have accommodated a lot yesterday in the current hour. You tried to act media-actively here yesterday, but you didn't succeed. Mrs Haller - I think it was Mrs Haller - has said from this point of view that she would like to apologize to the signatorys of the genetic engineering people's desire. [[Call the ÖVP:Aumayr!]] It was Mrs. Aumayr. Sorry. I would ask Mrs Aumayr to do this also with the Signatories of the Women's People's Desire, for they have committed themselves to the same degree. Now I want to talk to the matter myself. After all, 650 000 men and women have signed this popular desire, across all sides of the party. In any case, I have felt that this popular desire was a clear and strong signal, for the equality of women, for the implementation of equality between women and social reality. I think these 650 000 signers wanted to underline the importance of this signal. They wanted a motivating shift, a debate boost, and of course they also wanted pressure on the media and on politics - as necessary, we see - to exercise or strengthen the pressure. I think that this effect of women's people's desire was particularly noticeable because it led to a break-up within women's policy. We Liberals have supported this women's popular desire from the beginning - in knowledge of the importance - and we have also called for signature because the number of signatures determines the strength of this signal. We have supported this women's desire, although we have and still have differentiated access to individual points formulated in the women's desire. Some of the points are too large for us, and others actually seem to us to be counterproductive for women. But we were also aware that these demands in women's people's desire are also a form of compromise between the initiators, and I do not believe that it is correct in the sense of the Signatories, but also of all the initiators that these demands 1 : 1 are implemented in a word. I also do not believe that it is in the spirit of the Signatories that there is any special way of absorbing this women's desire. We are discussing this women's popular desire a little more than a year after it was started, and I can only say one thing: The result is totally disappointing! It is disappointing that we have not managed to develop new, modern approaches to women's policy and to women in the subcommittees - I have already said this: more than 35 hours of discussions. I am, of course, disappointed by the outcome that the coalition parties present here today, I think it is more than modest. This offer, I would like to say, on the subject of constitutional change - and this is still a step back from the EIA - is a step forward, and the two concrete applications are supposed to simulate improvements, because discussions of women's promotion plans by the Works Council have always been possible, and the inclusions in the Mother Protection Act were actually simply about clarifying the text. I would like to say that it was a matter of resolving perhaps an editorial error in existing laws. In my view, the motions for resolutions which have been tabled and which are addressed to our own ministers may be a step forward as an alibi, but in general two steps back when it comes to the effects, and also an admission to the inability to act and the inability to reform in the women's field. I mean, paper and beautiful words we already have enough, now we have to fulfill the promises we have made to women. [[Acclaim at the Liberal Forum and Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen.]] I am, however, really disappointed with the narrowing of the original concern of this popular desire. I am disappointed that the debate has been reduced only to the 1:1 implementation, the correct implementation of these eleven demands. On the one hand, I really see the danger of individual points being allocated to different partyideological concepts and, on the other, the danger that these concerns of women's desire, the real legitimate desire for change and the emerging willingness to do something for women might be stowed in these concepts, I would like to say. I also recognise the danger that many women, many Signatories and Signatories - I mean workers, I mean artists, I mean self-employed women, I mean women who do not work - are confined to their emancipatory claim and I do not feel really represented by reducing the discussion to just eleven points. I am not saying this as a criticism, but on the basis of the concern that this will actually eliminate the mood of departure in which we have found ourselves. I am also afraid that we may be depressing many committed and motivated women, women who then cannot or do not want to carry this wave, this mood of departure, and that this wave, unfortunately - "sufferer" for all women - will no longer be carried on. Ladies and gentlemen! I have already said that the Liberals certainly have differentiated access to individual points, but having differentiated access to formulated points does not mean not also wanting to recognize and implement the need to bring about a change. We have also repeatedly put forward proposals in our previous policy in many initiatives, in the field of education, in the economic sector, also in the social field, in order to get closer to this goal which we have set ourselves. It is not enough to acknowledge equal opportunities and equality. Many people here in this House probably confess to it, but the fact is that reality punishes us with lies, because the undisputed disadvantage of women is the result of discriminatory legal provisions and also the result of a lack of framework conditions. Because you, Mrs Minister, said today that it would be a remarkable success not to have taken a step in the wrong direction, I must ask you: How far do we want to go in the wrong direction - I am thinking of savings packages 1 and 2, which have clearly discriminated against women on one side?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] However, these savings packages are only an example of the fact that pure repair tests in laws, especially in the social field, which do not satisfy the different, very individual life processes of women, cannot work. One thing is clear: Whenever inequalities are treated the same way, this must simply result in discrimination. Ladies and gentlemen! I now come to amend Article 7 of the Federal Constitution. Mrs Haller, you have already surprised me today with your criticism of this position. But I say this in a positive way: I am glad that you have changed your mind, because in the written position paper you have still put in the committee, FPÖ has clearly opposed a constitutional anchorage, which is to be read. [[Abg. Haller: Because it is not necessary!]] In any case, it is not enough to confess to equality - we already have, in which we already agree. Therefore, we will not agree to this request by the coalition parties, since this is no more than a legally ineffective lip commitment. I believe that every dedicated woman on the part of the SPÖ will vote in favour of this view. The Greens and the Liberals will present a joint amendment here, and then you will be challenged. We just want to change one word: We want to see "obligation" replaced by "compulsory" because a constitution is not a creed. A Constitution has to lay down clear legal provisions, which must then be implemented simply by law. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] Greens and Liberals have drawn up such requests, which clearly reflect this commitment, but unfortunately they have been rejected. I therefore believe that this commitment is so necessary, because it is only from this commitment that special measures are necessary for women. I am thinking in particular of the area of qualification. The initiators of the women's people's desire have our clear yes to educational policies, and because of the commitment we would have the opportunity to demand the necessary resources. We know that the AMS has been exploited in terms of financial resources, we know that the AMS is starved of women's projects, we know that there is not enough money available to promote re-primary women, we know that there is not enough money to ensure coordination bodies for women's projects and pre-financing. We know that in the field of education - it would be nice if the Minister of Education were here - we finally need changes in order to counteract this segmentation of the labour market, this sharing in well paid men's work and poorly paid women's work. But here too the Minister of Education came no more than a lip confession and a well staged self-representation on today's day. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rosemarie Bauer.]] In the context of women's popular desire, there is a clear yes to a constitutional change within the meaning of the initiators, a no to the request of the government parties. The representatives of the popular desire have a clear yes to two years of karenz money for single parents. They have a clear yes to the fact that the partner income for emergency aid and compensation recipients is not to be taken into account. They have our clear yes for a labour and social protection of day mothers and, of course, for the extension of childcare facilities. Mrs. Minister! If you say today - I almost considered this to be polemic -: Roads are also built by the public hand, the public hand has to provide infrastructure!, I must ask you: Faith You really do have 20 more years for women to have a comprehensive care through childcare facilities? It will take so long for you - and I thank you for this - to loosen up 600 million schilling year after year; I have done this quite precisely. We must also create conditions to promote our own initiatives. We must give incentives for businesses to become private individuals in this area, because only in this way will we achieve a more rapid provision of childcare facilities. [[Acclaim at the Liberal Forum and Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen.]] We have - this is not secret - our problems in promoting and awarding public contracts. We believe that this is over-regulated, over-bureaucratic. In this context, the Liberals are calling for a tax incentive system for those establishments that present the evaluable women's promotion plans. We have a problem with the legally guaranteed right to part-time. This may be family friendly, but what is family-friendly is not necessarily woman-friendly. The advantage of the better compatibility of children and work does not always have the disadvantage of not having any career opportunities to be hindered in the operational future. I think that this point must also be a concern for an emancipatory women's policy. [[Acclaim at the Liberal Forum and Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen.]] In any case, we will consider a request that is based on the Swedish model, which guarantees a legal right to reduce the working time of about 15 per cent, but which allows entrepreneurs to contest this claim in the event of justified objections. We have a problem with the retention period of 26 weeks. I'm afraid of women's jobs. In this regard, we go further than the women in their desire. We want the status acquired in connection with unemployment to be neglected by the age of leave that women can also consume it. Now I come to a clear yes to the basic pension, to a clear yes to a minimum income, to a clear yes to an independent social security scheme also the minor employee. But this will not go according to the old structures, for this we need a new model, and we have introduced this with our basic assurance. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Our basic security is not something fixed and finished, it is a work in progress, and I think reflexive rejection is not the way to deal with it. I mean, it's important to bring small building blocks, mosaic stones into the discussion, because that leads to the goal. We say a clear yes to the fact that the retirement age will not be increased until equality is achieved. But I think this approach is more re-signative. We should do everything we can to achieve an increase in the retirement age by various measures as early as possible, because then equality was created earlier and we do not want to wait until 2018. In conclusion: Nice words don't fill women! - This has also been said by an initiator of women's people's desire. I do not believe in the omnipotence of the words, nor do I believe in the promises, nor in those which the President-in-Office has given to women in his first election campaign and has not redeemed them. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Now it's clearer, now he's sending a letter to all Austrians, now he doesn't mean the women at all. At least that's more honest. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I no longer believe in promises in the context of election campaigns, in the form: "I won't allow that...!" We Liberals rely on the very concrete political implementation, but also on new, innovative, more advanced models. I can say to myself and to my Liberal Group that at least we will also work to ensure that the mood of departure, discussion and motivation that this popular desire has caused within women and within society do not die, but remain alive.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e14121	Mrs Rosemarie Bauer is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Voluntary time limit: 12 minutes. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e14139	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have been very angry today about the introduction of the urgent request by the liberals, because I did not think that a political group would dare interrupt the debate on women's desire. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Well, that's unheard of!]] In the meantime, I had to find that the whole thing has something good in itself. A saying is: It has every thing two pages, always something good! [[Abg. May. Stadler: Your minister abuses the Rules of Procedure, and you accuse us! That's a strong piece!]] And the good thing about it is that the minds have cooled down a little, which is perhaps an opportunity to discuss women's-people's desire and women's topics in less shrill tones than it was to be feared at the beginning. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As far as the first reading is concerned, we have already said by the Austrian People's Party that this women's desire in the objectives and in the analysis is certain that there are points that we cannot agree with, because we have to fear negative effects on women due to the intentions and solutions. That is why we have not promised from the outset to put it all into practice. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! You and the Federal Chancellor have said and also promised that this women's popular desire will be fulfilled with a dot and emphasis. We did not promise such a great thing because we knew that there were some things to think about. The discussion in the subcommittee and in the hearing has shown that some experts have very well supported and given us the right, and that even experts nominated by different political groups have also been of different opinions and have seen different consequences. What annoyed me was the following. Mrs. Federal Minister! You mentioned in a newspaper a few days ago that you feel "unround" about women's desire. I also feel this "unround" but I do not link it with my group, but I feel that from the first day when this women's desire was presented, everything was strategy. On one point, I would like to thank Mrs Haller for her analysis: It was from the beginning trying to tell the women: We promise you everything, and if we do not succeed, then two political groups in this House - we as the ÖVP, as a coalition partner - will certainly be guilty of it. We couldn't do this favor because it wasn't our approach. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We think that we are very much guilty of women! We also believe that this popular desire is an instrument that comes at the right time, in which we can enforce more, and that we need this start and this signal very well as back strengthening. I think, however, that these strategies have given rise to a great deal of strength and a great deal of positive force for implementation. In any case, we have tried to have a good discussion environment, and I believe that the hearings and negotiations in the Subcommittee and all that has been done in connection with the women's desire have actually taken place in a good, constructive climate and have been very positive for me and for the women of my group who were in this committee. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: This is a selective perception!]] This made it possible to see a lot of things in different facets. It should also be thanked once again to the experts for trying to show various solutions, flows and effects here. This has obviously led to confusion among the ladies of the Independent Women's Forum, because Mrs Pölzlbauer "thrown the towel" at a very difficult stage, which was very interesting. Democracy is now laborious. We have just discussed the right to award, which is very difficult in its complexity, so that it would have taken even more time than we had available. They "thrown the towel" from the Independent Women's Forum, and that disappointed me very much. For you have thus adopted a democratic process which was very informative for us, and which, as I believe, would have been very interesting for the ladies of the Independent Women's Forum, because it should have been provided for them too. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It has not only left us Mrs Pölzlbauer, but it has also left us the experts we have chosen for the entire duration of the negotiations. That means, it wasn't really interesting at all, what happened there. That's what I felt was unrounded, and that's what I thought: Oh, there's really something else going on! The policy of the street is obviously better than the policy here in Parliament. And if there is any further evidence to this end, then we have received it than we suddenly could not hold one hour before the next committee deliberations of the coalition partner to our greatest amazement. Suddenly, the partner jumped off! We were really irritated about that. It was unrounded, but then it replayed. I would like to make a third point, namely the game with the Constitution. - Ladies and gentlemen! We have felt it from the beginning, we have noticed - although we have long known that we will agree to such a formulation - that the pressure and failure was specifically placed on this point and that the debt for failure is ultimately also at this point. Hardly did we agree, it was not enough for the other, although the expert even meant Hornig before: It is true that we have the law in force, but a clear signal would be to find any formulation. - Please read it. We have hardly done this, we have even taken a step further in the Committee and have said: Okay, that's what we're seeing. Let us take away this word "equal opportunities" although it is found in all expert opinions. Let's talk about "factual equality". We promised the UFF to choose the Amsterdam formulation. - We hardly have her, she's not too much to the UFF again. It says again that she is gay or unrounded or anything else. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Not with us! You notice the intention and you're right. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: I can't believe what you're talking about!]] Mrs. Federal Minister! I have a lot of understanding for your situation. It is not funny that your predecessor is making public accusations to you for failure, for which you are certainly not responsible and for the You certainly can't do anything. Because the situation of women and all that is shown as a lack has not come upon us like any infection, but these are, of course, developments that are more recent than two years. That is why there is a lot of work to be done in this area, which, of course, falls within the responsibility of the Johanna Dohnal, who suddenly - I do not want to repeat here; I have already said it in the first reading - finds it in an independent forum and puts on the table a catalogue of demands for her successor and says: So, and that's what you've got to do in a year! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: This is true solidarity!]] I didn't find that fine. That is why I have a great deal of solidarity with the Minister for Foreign Affairs because I know that she does not have it easy, and I also understand her efforts. Mrs. Federal Minister! I understand your efforts, and you will also have our support. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I should just like to say briefly that we are also committed to points which we have not agreed to - we have agreed to this from the outset - for example: no account of the partner income in the event of emergency aid and compensation allowance. The consequences would be fatal, abuses would open door and gate. That's not what we're for. Or: The 26-week retention period. "Not the yellow from the egg," said an expert because she was concerned about this. Only the expert of the Greens has said quite clearly: In fact, it is only about the fact that women from the field of karenz leave are moving into emergency aid, so to speak. - That's just a shift in the problem. It's just being relocated! It's moving more and more, but nothing is solved. We're here for a solution. Or: Even for two years we are not a vacation for single parents. [[Deputies Dr. Gredler and Mother: Why not?- Oh, my God!]] If so, then of course the old state needs to be restored. Why do you want to differentiate between children who can be cared for by parents and children who cannot be cared for by parents? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr Gredler: (demonstrativ leaving the hall) Keep talking!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Something we already wish for are more flexible forms of working time for parents whose child is in the time of the infant phase. I hope that we will bring together a law as it stands here. That is also a wish from us, and in this direction we really have to go, because that is really a great desire of women. We have tabled a number of proposals, some of which go even further. Some of what was demanded in the women's desire has even been fulfilled. We would also like to have a pensionable account of care periods and child training times. The latter is now already slipping into the area of the possible, because we have already made this possible during the care periods. Of course, the desire for child care is still open. We would be completely aggressive in the matter of age insurance, I must say, a solution, and a soon solution. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The compensation we propose is only a part of such a solution. But he would be a quick help especially for those women who are being "disposed" from marriage in the worst way and become social cases. This is another point in which I believe that it is a wrong way to release women from the hands of men, so to speak, from the point of view of liberation, but then move them to the social network and to the social office. This is not a solution, and not our idea of a good women's policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I therefore propose from this point of view to make it different this day. Dear ladies here in the house! We should be on the occasion of the International Women's Day on 8 October. In March 1999, we took the initiative and invited it to an event here in this House. We should, perhaps in this room, make a women's event on the subject of old age insurance. We should debate this, perhaps in the form of an inquiry. Whatever we do, we should take this issue into account here in this House! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kiss: With the men! We want to be there too!]] [[Abg. Puttinger: Everything without men!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The Minister for Childcare has also been treated by the Minister for Childcare. Mrs Haller brought him into the conversation today. This check is not for discussion. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] The women's promotion plans are not discussed either, although they are a very good thing. I don't want to talk about the child care check, just because we don't even have a feasibility study on it. I must say one thing to you, Mrs Mertel, especially to you. They have tried to prepare the election campaign in Lower Austria, and the SPÖ women of Lower Austria have been aggressively politically recruited by the insurrection of the childcare check. - The result is known. I don't have anything to add to it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That's why you didn't hit the core. This way you pass the real needs of the population. But you must not ignore such strong needs à la longue! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Not a party should be the winner of this women's popular desire here, the winners should be women! If we work together to do so, we could do so with the jobs which the motions for resolutions mean, and with what we have brought together so far. I can't say I'm satisfied. But I think we have really tried to do this despite all our conflicting views. You're supposed to admit it. But I also believe that we have created a good basis on which we can continue to work in this area. Although this report is being completed today, the issue will not be completed, because the actual work will not begin until the necessary documents are available, which will only be made on the basis of the motions for resolutions. Then we can continue to work. There is therefore no end to this, but only in the parliamentary protocol will the report be put to an end. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e14384	Mrs Magnette has now come to speak. Kammerlander. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e14402	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. - Mrs. Bauer! Although we may not have such an excited mood as you have described it, we have landed back where we are always on women's issues - you are busy now, but I say it to you anyway - that is late in the evening. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer is surrounded by colleagues who congratulate her for her speech]] My group has not only supported all the points - this is addressed to you, Mrs Mertel - but we also know what we want and what we are saying here. This may be a difference to your group, Mrs Colleague, because we have noticed in the last half of the year that you have not always known that. It's supposed to be a side slider to you once. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Thank you!]] Let us go from the point of view of women's people's desire. The starting point was the two savings packages, which, in particular for women, have brought drastic, yes dramatic cuts in the social field, particularly in the field of karenz, in all the regulations concerning karenz, and especially in the field of education - cuts which have therefore made the overall social and economic situation of women worse. If we look at the starting point today - and this also as an answer to your comments on lunch, Mrs Minister, when you tried to draw a very optimistic picture - I cannot entirely follow you in your assessment, because the starting situation for women has actually been unchanged for years. It may already be true that this has been decided here in Parliament, but if we look at it behind the mirror, if we look at it in relation to the specific situation of women, we see that these have been very small steps and very small successes. This sum must be drawn. I can present you with a whole latte of evidence for this. However, we have also heard it in committee. We have heard excellent reports from experts who have not differed so much in some areas. In the field of work, in the social field, these opinions were quite similar to those of the experts. There is only a lack of understanding if we are allowed to join these very similar opinions of the experts. [[Interlocutors Rosemarie Bauer and Dr. Brinek.]] The average male income remains 44 percent above that of women. This is even more dramatic for employees alone. It is still true that 58 percent of women earn less than S 14.000 net. It is still true that 90 percent of part-time work is done by women. It is still true that the proportion of minor employees in women is increasing particularly strongly, which must cause concern. And it is still true that 50 percent of women with little employment have no other income. [[Abg. Gaugg: 30 years of socialist politics!]] Or: Karenz money. Just keep this one in mind: The increase in karenz money from 1990 to 1997 was 19.45 percent. However, consumer prices rose by 25 percent over the same period. - That's all I'm saying. And I am not yet talking about the measures the savings package has put in place. This figure alone would be sufficient to show that women who go in Karenz had to suffer only by this rate of increase. But it's going on. It is still true that 50 percent of women do not have their own pension entitlements, even if there are minor improvements. But it's still like this: 50 percent of women do not have their own pension rights, and every other woman over 60 lives on or below the poverty line. This list would continue at any rate. But I think you know. We all know them, up to the fact that childcare places are missing and that 46 000 women are unable to take up work because they have no childcare place. In my opinion, all of this shows a picture of inequality, which calls for an urgent need for action, but none - I am still talking about it - is simply content with motions for resolutions and appeals to the Federal Government. Mrs. Minister! You said at lunch it was at least not a step in the wrong direction. But if you look closely at the situation, there is another picture. I have not yet mentioned the question of education, for example, that 50 percent of women only have compulsory schooling, and I have not yet mentioned other areas of this picture, as women really do. By the way, there has been a perfectly consistent picture of the experts in the compensation allowance: Of much too low pensions, early pensions are primarily affected by women. And there's a very special number here. I no longer know what group the expert Mrs Mag. Moritz was, but she told us that in 1997 11 800 applications for compensation were rejected. 10 300 women were affected! It is women who are not compensated! It is women who do not have independent insurance in their old age! This picture has been drawn to us. And you, Mrs. Minister, are proud to say this today as a result: At least no step has been taken in the wrong direction! - It's a poverty certificate you gave. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is an admission that you cannot go in another direction at all and that you are obviously only busy in blocking it so that at least no step is taken in another wrong direction. My predecessor, Mrs Schaffenrath, said quite correctly: Let's look at the savings packages. What steps were these, and in what direction were they placed? Were the steps in the right direction?- Oh, my God! - I doubt the vehement because we know that the initiative for women's people's desire for savings packages has taken its place. The trigger was the savings package because the women suffered dramatically! [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: And was Mrs. Prammer involved in these savings packages as a minister?- Oh, my God!]] But you, Mrs. Minister, stand here and say: There was no step in the wrong direction. - You said one year ago, when you got here. I support the popular desire and will fulfill all eleven points!, say today after a year as a result: At least there was no step in the wrong direction. But Mrs Gehrer has also amazed me today, because she has listed all the measures in the National Employment Programme. I told you yesterday: If you look at this, you see, these are loud measures that have already been or have been taken: right, good measures, re-entry aid, qualification measures, special training - a whole latte. All this has been shortened with the savings packages in the last two years. The AMS has reduced everything. The AMS has reversed these measures, the AMS has exerted real pressure. Take a look at the situation of the women's counsellors! I have already referred to you here how dramatic the situation is, how the women's counsellors are unable to meet their jobs, because the funds are missing. And then the Minister Gehrer, who has been in the Committee's deliberations, has never been here, and is famous for this National Employment Programme, without mentioning how it will look and how it will be financed. [[Abg. Dr Petrovic brings the speaker a paper to the speaker's desk.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Schummelzettel!]] These are exactly the things that have been dealt with in the Committee. We're on our way now. And what does the result look like after a quarter of a year? - Your actions have been exhausted in a bundle of motions for resolutions calling on your own members of the government to report, to draw up statistics and to collect income distributions. And the very best is: They will then have to provide information - for example about the karenz - which is of course a matter of course. It is obvious that information about the karenz and about the karenz money will be published to carenz payers. You have tabled motions for resolutions calling on your Minister Hostash to do what she has announced half a or three-quarters of a year ago, namely to continue the reform of the pension system. They're making fun of her. It looks as if it had worked nothing until then and it seems that your motion for a resolution needs it to continue working on what it announced a three-quarters of a year ago. These are the results of your activity of a three-quarters year, which are your answers to the situation that women are exposed to. But let us also talk quietly about the attitude of the ÖVP. I find it very interesting, Mrs Bauer, what you have said in your minority report on the single karenz payers. You write: There can be no preference for single parents. As if there could be talk of a preference! They seem to disregard the fact that there are many pressures on the carnage payers, many of them suffering from discrimination, and that this is an equalisation of the situation. Single parents do not have the opportunity to go to work after a year and a half because the childcare facilities are missing. But you ignore that! And then you'll write some kind of "talk" sentences, like: They should not be rewarded. You seem to forget - although you have a family speaker who is divorced - that each third marriage will be divorced. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: But she's talking about the intact family!]] How can you please have the forehead and go out here and say: Single parents should not be preferred!? - I really think that's absurd! Let's get to the Constitutional Treaty. The core of women's desire was the goal of bringing about an actual equality. That has already been said. This constitutional provision should have a model character. This constitutional provision should also make it possible to invoke and enforce law in subordinate laws in certain situations. I'm amazed how the expert, Dr. Hornig, was often misquoted today. I have received the opinion of the Association of Austrian Lawyers. The opinion of Dr. Hornig was as follows: Before you decide to do this, you should leave it better, because in that case the current Constitution is better than what you want to decide. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Hlavac.]] The commitment to equal opportunities is a step backwards from what is in the Constitution today. It does not fulfil the obligations of international law. They resorted to a 22-year-old formulation on a 22-year-old EU directive. And you have also mistranslated them in a hollow German. Their original formulation made no sense in the back and in the front. You've corrected this a little. They seem to have understood, especially the Members of the EIA, that this is too obvious a step backwards. You then, in your application for equal opportunities, at least made the " factual equality". Nevertheless, the back and front is holly and actually does not agree with the sense. But you left the confession. And it's already been said: A confession has nothing to look for in the Constitution at all. It can only be a commitment. It can only be said that the federal, state and local authorities commit themselves to the production of actual equality. You have obviously forgotten the word "manufacturing". But be it, at least commit yourself to real equality. We are therefore tabling the following amendment, which has already been announced: [[Quoted print version removed]] Another heartpiece of women's desire was the 26 weeks retention period, for good reason. It is not a question of introducing a measure to push women out of the work process, but of creating opportunities for women to be able to prove themselves again after karenz. One thing I would like to say, above all, is that Mr Schaffenrath: That's the crux in the women's promotion measures. We have also discussed this in the field of education. If a measure to promote women is put in place, it may happen that it is precisely this measure that also hinders women. If, for example, there have been special quotas - this has been shown in the field of women's research - women in other areas have no longer come to the fore except in this quoted area. However, we must live with this risk, if we want to achieve real and real equality. I can live with this risk quite well, because if we did not do anything, that would not only be a step back, but would have more devastating effects than trying to achieve something with such preferences. Because that was one of the core pieces - and that was actually the reason why Mrs. Dr. Pölzlbauer has left the Committee: because you were not even willing to discuss whether it would be possible for us to implement this - let us make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is also one of the measures that has fallen victim to the savings package, as have many others. Because there used to be a longer retention period. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: When was a longer retention period?]] I am already at the end of my speech and will no longer respond to your calls. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: You can't say things that don't vote!]] Last but not least, Mrs Bauer. If you say that women should not be freed from the hands of men in order to get into the hands of the state, then you seem to overlook one thing: that the situation of women in the hands of men, as you have formulated - and thus obviously mean the marriage which, as we know, assures women in retirement - has always led to the fact that women are very vulnerable to poverty. Look If you look at the situation of women in old age, in retirement, then you know that women are extremely vulnerable. Read only what was said in the newspaper The point is that 240 000 women are without employment and that many women want to return to the labour market in order to acquire their social demands independently, independently, by work, but this is not possible because there are no jobs, because there is no childcare facilities, because there is so to speak, a lack of back and front. [[the speaker holds a newspaper section in the height]] I am therefore convinced that the recipe that women have in keeping "men's hands" as you have called it is fundamentally wrong. This recipe has led us to where we stand today, and is the reason that we have to deal with a women's people's desire and with all that has been rightly demanded in this women's desire. [[Call to the liberals: she certainly doesn't concern that!]] These are, by the way, minimum requirements, embarrassing minimum requirements, these eleven points. In no way are these extreme demands. Look This is what you're looking at: In many areas, these are only corrective measures of the savings package in recent years. They are minimal requirements that you do not address, which you do not take into account in any way. They are satisfied, as has been said, with motions for resolutions and appeals to their own members of the government. I find that embarrassing. I really think this is a special class parliamentary burial. This has not deserved women's policy to try, after ten years of its own women's place and after such a women's desire with motions for resolutions, to change something politically. At this pace, we will never come to an actual equality!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e14621	The two applications just read have been properly submitted, duly supported and are therefore under negotiation. Mr Klubobmann Dr. Kostelka is speaking on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e14642	Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Social reality regarding the position of man and woman has changed deeply in the last decades of God. Social democracy - I only remember the family law reform of Christian Broda - was leading. It was she who formulated and actively pursued equality between men and women from the beginning, from the start of her political life. Only, I add, that we are still living with far too much inequality, yes, with the disadvantage of women. Ladies and gentlemen! There has been a catch-up in the field of education, especially on university ground, but only 4.6 percent will still be - I repeat: 4.6 percent! - the highly qualified positions of women. We created the equal treatment law 19 years ago as one of the first states in Europe, but we still have 160 000 men and 360 000 women who earn under 15 000 s, twice as many women, although the proportion of men in work is much higher. [[Call to the liberals: This is socialism!]] And still - I find this to be extremely sad - discussions about the sharing of housework with a smile are warranted and beyond that violence in the family primarily affects women. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Women and children!]] Ladies and gentlemen! What we need to create is more equality in society. This is not an equalisation, it starts with equal opportunities. But it would be too short to assume that it is only a matter of ensuring entry into vocational life and entry into education. It is also about the permanent offering of the opportunity to actually realize itself. What I mean by that is that it is not just about observing the first third of life, but the test stone for the equality we are able to create is the entire life course. Being a woman must not mean relinquishing career, relinquishing standard of living and relinquishing social recognition. But that is exactly what is sadly still in many contexts. Women's pensions usually amount to two thirds of the male pension. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Everything will be different when the Socialists come to the government!]] And the most urgent thing for me becomes clear when we look at the development on the university floor. 53 percent of the first-time recipients are girls, but graduates 44 percent, assistants 20 percent, lecturers 8.4 percent and professors 3.61 percent. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Socialist Education Policy!]] This is the career, where one can not only talk about equal opportunities, but also create them. Ladies and gentlemen! In this context, for the first time: We must create social realities, and not only are laws and regulations done, but the revolution takes place in the head. On the other hand, there is a need to quit shared housework with a smile. The jokes made about the half-half action I find embarrassing as a man. In this sense, women's popular desire was an important signal, and in this context some things have succeeded. But I don't like to say: We have by no means achieved what we wished for six months ago. This women's desire should have been referred back to committee. We have failed with this proposal. But we will create the conditions for the discussion to continue on the basis of our proposals. And we will have to discuss in this context what our coalition partner has done to us. [[Ironic calls of astonishment in the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We do not take note of the ÖVP that there is no need for action in the field of leave for single parents! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We will repeatedly request and discuss again and try to convince our coalition partner that there will be a legal requirement for part-time work. And we will also discuss, request and try to convince that the extension of the retention period will take place from 4 to 26 weeks. Mrs Bauer! In 1996, 30.3 per cent of the cardiac payers were unemployed. If, in view of this number, there is no need for action, then I have a different concept of the need to act than you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rosemarie Bauer.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let me make a final comment. The Federation is not responsible for childcare facilities, but because it considers them so important, it uses twice 600 million schilling, over 1 billion schilling, for this purpose. But the quantitative and qualitative need, which is indisputable, is to be met by the communities. As a man, I simply take a stand against the fact that kindergarten problems are understood as women's problems. Because in kindergartens, as I know from my own daughter, go not only boys, but also girls. And the children who go there not only have mothers, but also fathers. This is therefore a social problem, a social need to be met. In this sense, I also ask you to understand my word message as a call for more sensitivity. The equality of women is to be created - but not only in 2018!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e14738	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e14757	Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I am pleased to have won Klubobmann Kostelka as a co-compator for the Committee on Equal Opportunities, and I am looking forward to the future cooperation, because I have been the only man in this committee to date with a rather tough and difficult position. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: You enjoyed it!]] Welcome as a Controversy for Women's Affairs! [[Call to the SPÖ: Mr Brauneder also speaks on this issue!]] Ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, the President-in-Office of the Council has already gone. Although she was in the wrong mood, she escaped with her campaign leader, although as a candidate it would not have harmed her to pursue a security debate. But she might have wanted to enjoy a media appearance here. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! But I'll tell you what we don't want: We do not want to see the demands of the women's people's desire and at all in the work of the Committee on Equal Opportunities between men and women polarized. I'm sure we don't want to! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If there can be progress towards equal treatment, then only together. And what I would like to make clear here: Equal treatment, as Mr Klubobmann Kostelka said, takes place in the minds. I would even like to add this: in the hearts and in the heads. However, equal treatment must not lead to unilateral discrimination against men. We will certainly defend ourselves against that. That's quite clear. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Today, at the beginning of the debate, Mrs Gehrer has listed many measures to promote girls and women. There you could become almost jealous and ask: What is actually being done for the boys? - The acquisition of vocations in men's domains is not the solution. I spoke two or three days ago to a carpenter who as a carpenter did not get a job and now works in a company on the tape. I believe that this is not the only solution. A girl who wants to become a hairdresser, because it corresponds to her position of interest, will probably not be converted into a locker, even if some would have liked it so much. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! What happened? - More than 645,000 women and men have signed this popular desire, but most certainly not in the consciousness of which complex legal capacities in these demands are so salopp - I would like to say almost: populist - formulated and easy to implement. Then the parliamentary mill began to grind: A subcommittee has been set up, hearings have taken place, hundreds of opinions have been seen, new questions have been constantly raised - only the answers have been left to this day. Mr Klubobmann Kostelka's salvific speech cannot change this at all. It really pushes up the picture of the Crying Mountain, which then bears a little mouse - and in this case it is a very tiny dowry that was born after this committee. A flood of applications with the aim of improving the situation of women was brought in, the parties formally resort to confessions, of course under the media drum swirl for the implementation of the demands of women's people's desire. Even the German Chancellor climate - we remember the mood at the women's day that hit him there - has tenuously guaranteed to support the full implementation of the women's people's desire. In this context, it is also interesting to note the role of the EIA, which has brought in applications which are even very reasonable, such as creating new jobs for jobs, businesses, households. These have been withdrawn, and now I read in the Minutes that the same request has been assigned to the Committee on Equal Opportunities - a very reasonable request. Why did you even withdraw it? - It would be important for women currently working in the grey sector to be legally employed in the household. That would be a very important matter, a matter which you have distanced from in committee. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] What else happened? - Experts were asked, in between we were allowed to listen to the verbal jury of the election manager of Mrs. Knoll about the men. It was negotiated and negotiated. Finally, toothless resolutions have come out, truly toothless resolutions that will help to increase paper, but not improve the situation of women. As "Gustopückerl" perhaps still calls for a better information for karenz leavers on return possibilities. - Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This is nothing but the admission that the Minister of Women has so far done her job badly, for otherwise she would have been able to comply with this information requirement for a long time. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There would be much more to say, ladies and gentlemen, but the red light here is already shining. Especially embarrassing are the attempts among the two government parties regarding the minority reports to put the blame on each other for the failure of the women's people's desire into the shoes. In conclusion, I would like to quote the former Minister of Women, Mr Dohnal, who, in an interview with the 'Salzburger Nachrichten', said the following: "'SN': How and where can women resist - except in elections? - Donal: In the elections, that's a lot. And it will have an impact on the government parties in the elections. The non-acting persons in the government majority of SPÖ have no idea what they are doing. Either they really don't know. That would be the more pleasant variant I don't believe in." We invite women to vote more freely in the future. Your concerns are in good hands with us.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e14837	Mrs Brinek is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e14852	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! After the remarks of my colleague Bauer and my previous speakers, let me continue with a few flashlights of the present time. 80 percent of children's professional choice decisions are made or found by their parents. I therefore see a massive point of departure for an informed decision-making aid in the life of the school partnership. A concrete example: A couple talk about what profession their children should take. In this family are two boys and one girl: The boys have school difficulties, problems with logical thinking, need constant reassurance; the girl is highly gifted, preferential student, in mathematics super. The parents say the boys should become lawyers once, because there is a law firm to inherit. They're supposed to make a lot of money. The girl is supposed to guard the female and become a nurse. Another case: A HTL graduate, in her class the only girl, favorite student, gets no job because the head of staff looks up at the interview and sees it's a Michaela and not Michael. Third example: A HAK teacher is horrified because he is shown that he does not prefer the girls - as he thinks - but is severely disadvantaged because the boys take attention and not - as he thinks - the girls. Ladies and gentlemen! These are all problems to be given to the answers, and I mean the time when it was so easy to put on "natural differences" and "natural solutions" is over. We see that history and socialization are at least as important as social policy measures and strategies, and we are therefore concerned about this condition - namely: Problem, special case, social analysis and answers must be taken care of. What answers can be found, which are given in principle? On the one hand, what radical feminists do, namely to put on the consistently "other", the female to whom the male is facing, or to replace it as the actual "sold" by the female. These are other forms of desire, different thinking, more feeling, other forms of solutions. They forget, however, that the other is always the derivative of the peculiar and thus of the valuable, that is, a dead end. A second way is to rely on equal rights, i.e. on formal and material equality, i.e. to grant formal and factual access to girls to all levels of society, profession, public, politics, power decisions. An analysis of the Constitution has shown that the Constitution, which goes back to the constitutional monarchy, has also applied only to equality before the law and not by law. In so doing, I am glad that I also have feedback from Professor Kucsko-Stadlmayer, namely that we are right in our proposal on constitutional arrangements; right in the sense of further development of the Constitution and right in the sense of women's rights. That once for the Enlightenment. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The People's Party, I think, is right when it goes the second way in solving women's problems, namely the production of not only formal but, in fact, the same opportunities of access, with a lot of reason and understanding. Reasonable, rational approach, creating strategic awareness - all of this has brought an respectable result in the discussions on women's people's desire. What's that? - For example: Ensuring the promotion of women and equal opportunities through the negotiated and presented Constitutional provision, the extension of childcare facilities. It is also no shame if the covenant accepts this matter and makes it its cause. Until 1962, child care and kindergarten matters were in the classroom, i.e. they were already federal matters. And developing federal uniform criteria, I think no harm. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] The development of long-term pension schemes and the simultaneous solution to the problems that women who are now under the poverty line through the development of life, family work and apartheid are not contradictory matters. We do not conclude that we see in this motion for a resolution exactly the right way to go. However, the focus for the People's Party is on the further development of working time flexibility. It corresponds to the desired time sovereignty of workers, as well as employers and employers. Whether this is achieved by the right to part-time is not even agreed by the experts in the Committee. The question of wanting to turn to an opinion now and to say that all those who do not join this proposal do not constitute any further flexibilization, I think, as I said, not solid. There was no unanimous opinion among the experts. There was also no unanimous view regarding the extension of the retention period to 26 weeks. It was the expert Mrs Mag. Ship-bankers, who have not been proposed by the ÖVP, who have said that we can also come to more protection of women in other ways, because from childcare, the absence from work to unemployment and, in turn, into an absence from the labour market and then one day wake up and no longer find it in the work process, this awakening - this terrifying awakening! - Let's save the women. The consequence must therefore be other safeguards and methods of rapid reintegration. Remember Gerda Neyer's study, which has shown that too long absence from the labour market by Karenz actually hinders the return. Women, I think, should be more concerned about formulating their own claims on matters relating to the privatisation of politics. In times of the exclusion of companies from camera-listics and from state regulation, it is more about rational, strategicly clear, professional decisions. There are successful examples of how and how women do this. But there is currently an example that makes me very concerned. A candidate for the highest office in the state is apparently more and more unaware that she will become a product of some mature men and in girlly co-heresy rely on the "power of the belly" - less on the power and power of the mind. She refuses professionalism, she can seduce herself to abandon argumentation. But I think that democracy needs the competence of differentiation and thought. Those who call the appearance of the main candidate for the office of the Federal President "Royal" and "unfit", but compare themselves to a tragically dazzling princess, who can be turned from the recognized churchwoman to "Rose from Weppersdorf" must fail. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: That is not worthy of you! That is not worthy of you, Mrs. Colleague!]] If we do today, on 16 May. April 1998, talking about the future of women's policy, I agree that it is no longer a matter of using Feuerbach, Hegel, Schopenhauer or where it is said: "His is the woman, the man's thinking." - If we want to keep up with Feuerbach, Hegel and Schopenhauer - being is the woman, feeling is the woman, thinking is the man - then we go in the wrong direction, because women's competence is not automatically equated with reduction to feeling. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] More thinking, ladies! More thinking and more power! Together we can do it!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e14903	Mrs Motter has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e14918	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Brinek! Together we can do it! - I've been here for a long time and I've always believed in the commonness, but I don't believe in it slowly anymore if I get to see the lean result of today. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Because still, my Ladies and gentlemen, there is an existing disadvantage of women. This is undisputed and, last but not least, the result of discriminatory legislation, but also the result of a lack of framework conditions - with the policy of both areas of origin having substantial responsibility. Similarly, social power distribution contributes much to this inequality between men and women, which has its roots in long-term tasks and role allocations for the sexes. The traditional role distribution was called and is unfortunately still often called: The husband, through paid work, has to care for the maintenance of the family, the wife with unpaid work ensures that the husband can carry out his work at all. If children are present, the knitting pattern must be continued: The husband takes care of the financial basis of the family through professional training, the wife gives up her profession in so far as she had the opportunity at all to learn one in order to create the social basis through unpaid work. And since the degree of independence, ladies and gentlemen, depends largely on money in our society, the power ratios are thus clearly distributed. Anyway, this is the picture - unfortunately still! - in our society. The social structure, the working world and also the language have been oriented towards it, and the habit of it unfortunately leads to the short conclusion that all this must be and remain so. A deep discussion about this condition rarely takes place, one is satisfied with explanations of principle, without definition. I already admit: This is quite practical, because it makes a lot of reasons for it, and especially in times of elections, respect for the multiple burden of women is overshadowed. However, what the woman is allowed - we know that too - is, if there is a need for men to jump into the break and stop, above all, poor paid activities or laborious social services, sometimes even top functions, if there is no man there at all. The fact that this should be changed reflects on all of us, and it is here again and again that we are talking about it again and again. But what is really being done seriously? Today's speech by Mr Klubobmann Kostelka was beautiful. He has recognized the inequality of women, but I ask him now - he's not there -: What does he really do to make it change? - I'll tell him: Nothing! But it is always about what has been done so far. [[Abg. Dr Gredler: Exactly!]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: But Mr. Khol is here!]] He hasn't spoken yet. I suppose you're still going to talk about women. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: No!]] Isn't it? - Shame! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I'm telling you the Latin proverb: Si tacuisses, philosopher menisses!]] That is also a principle, yes. - That not even a popular desire to treat it today is taken seriously is a fact! Ladies and gentlemen! However, I would like to turn to those points which we have called for in the course of the women's desire; I would like to deal with them. We are still here today - and this is an old demand on my part - that every human being has the right to be able to reconcile work and children. It is therefore a fundamental requirement that the legislator should ensure the provision of full-day qualified care facilities for children of all ages. It is also a matter of course for us that mother-in-law should be trained and safeguarded by labour law and social law. We therefore fully support the demand of the Vorarlberg nurses for labour and social security schemes which they made yesterday to the Vorarlberg Government, and I hope that other federal states will also have their flags in the future. I am confident - and Vorarlberg often sets priorities - that perhaps our old demand will soon be met and that it will be established. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Because a comprehensive provision of public childcare facilities, which we naturally demand to be extended, is not to be implemented quickly enough for the women and men concerned in the near future, the Liberals have also been committed to supporting private initiatives and operational initiatives that are more appropriate to the requirements of flexible care periods. And I would like to explain this immediately now - then to the remarks of my colleague Schaffenrath - in the near future. Mrs. Minister! I know you don't like private institutions. But I know from many parents that they would rather use private institutions than state - but unfortunately there is too little available. I mean, you have to deal with this fact - whether you want or not - once. That is why we have also tabled a motion for a resolution in committee. In this motion for a resolution on the tax deductibility of child care costs, the Federal Government is asked to draw up a concept for tax deductibility. The following criteria shall be taken into account: First: Child care costs should be tax deductible as advertising costs up to a maximum of 60 000 S per year. Secondly, In order to ensure that the reliability of this deductibility is ensured evenly at all levels of income, a negative tax regulation, which includes a grinding system and a cover, should be provided. Thirdly, The use of pedagogical staff is a prerequisite for the agility. Fourth: The employment and social security of qualified care staff must be ensured. The reason for this request lies in the fact that in Austria only 54 percent of kindergartens have been opened all day. The opening hours of kindergartens also have considerable regional differences: While 93 percent of all kindergartens have been opened throughout Vienna, in Tyrol only 4.9% are conducted all day, without lunch breaks. Only 1.5 percent of all Austrian kindergartens, a single hort and four children's cribs also offer Saturday or Sunday care. - Ladies and gentlemen! This shows that the opening hours have not yet taken into account any care obligations of employees in trade, hotels and restaurants, health care and other service professions. There is also a considerable discrepancy between the minimum holiday on the one hand and the school or kindergarten holidays on the other. Especially for the two- to four-year-olds, the situation is precarious and has been heightened to one and a half years by the de facto reduction in the karenz age. Even in Vienna, which has a relatively large offer, there is only an institutional opportunity for 9 percent of all children under the age of three. Among children under two years of age, the Austrian quota is even below 2%, and the offer for the care of the six to ten years of age is also well below the requirement. In order to overcome this manko, it will be necessary to facilitate private child care initiatives in the future in the event that both partners or the single parent or the single parent are employed. As already mentioned, child care costs up to a maximum of 60 000 S should be tax deductible each year in the context of advertising costs, because childcare is closely related to professional activity or is its basic condition. The possibility of tax deductibility would allow several parents or parents to join an association or a company of civil law. They could jointly recruit one or more qualified caregivers and benefit from the tax advantage of some of the funds the public hand saves from the non-use of public funds. In the case of low-income workers who do not benefit from the tax advantage, the negative tax system would be applied. However, we assume that the caregiver is in an employee's relationship, i.e. social security, and that the costs of the care are also verifiable. Child care must also be provided by a educationally trained force. In the case of use of public institutions or private kindergartens, a deductibility is not provided because public funds are already being used in these systems. With regard to the organisation of a private childcare facility, which is in any form supported by the municipality or the country, the tax deductibility of child care costs has the great advantage of not complying with a wealth of rules. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I really ask you to accept this request again and to discuss it more seriously than before. This scheme also has employment-effective effects because this would increase the female employment rate: If individual child care is possible, which is also manageable, more women will enter the labour market and thus become employees in the labour market. In a further motion for a resolution on the increased tax admissibility of farm kindergartens, which was also introduced in the course of the discussions on women's people's desire, the Federal Government is asked, analogous to the increased operational admissibility of expenditure on research and development in accordance with § 4 para. 4 Z 4 Income Tax Act to change the provisions of the Income Tax Act in such a way that expenses for the creation and maintenance of farm kindergartens of 130 percent are tax deductible. Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, it is also a fact that children, kitchens and karenz are becoming more and more a job killer for women in the world of work. Because only 20 percent of all women who have been selected for the education of the offspring create the return to their professional life. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: You don't have to hurry!]] Four years ago, it was still around 33 percent who found themselves in their profession without any major difficulties. One of the main reasons for the problems of returning to work is still the lack of childcare. [[Abg. Dr Gredler: Exactly!]] So if farms were to provide more childcare facilities, this would be a great relief for women. It would be very motivating and soothing for working mothers and fathers if they knew their child well in the vicinity. In addition, time-consuming means of delivery and collection would be avoided, which could also make part-time work more attractive for fathers. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] In addition, an increase in the amount of allowances for the entrepreneur or the entrepreneur would provide an additional incentive for the establishment of an operational kindergarten. Mein Ladies and gentlemen! I also think that the actual results of the negotiations on childcare facilities and the related demands in women's people's desire are more than thin. There was no single demand fulfilled! There is only one motion for a resolution on the further development of childcare facilities by the year 2000 on the initiative of the Federal Government, which mentions the fact that 600 million Schilling will be made available in 1999 and 2000. Whether the countries will participate is still open. If we know the negotiations with the countries, Mrs Minister, I think you can sing a song of them, we know that it is not yet certain whether these childcare facilities are actually introduced in the countries. The results of the Karenz-Zeit scheme are equally poor. The requirement that the reference period of the pension fund be increased to two years for all single parents is a matter of course for us, as the de facto reduction in the leave period for one and a half years means a unilateral disadvantage for single parents, which affects women in particular. I do not understand the attitude of Mrs Bauer, who takes a stand against single parents and speaks of "injustice". - Mrs. Bauer! I think it is absurd that you are talking about injustice in this context. For us Liberals, the compatibility of work and family has a clear priority. In this respect, targeted measures should also be taken for single-parents. In addition, framework conditions should be created in order to facilitate the use of the age of leave by fathers in spite of the problems of gender differences. In order to achieve flexibility, we have submitted a request concerning a federal law amending the Mother Protection Act in 1979, according to which the notification period for the application of a leave period is extended to at least eight weeks before the last possible entry. Such an extension should, in particular, make it easier for the fathers to take advantage of a karenz period. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We must not only say that mother and father should stand as a child, but we must also give them the opportunity that they can actually do so. That's why I think it's important to create reliefs for the man. The second parent must take at least six months to make use of the care allowance until the second birthday of the child. In this case, the requirement of entitlement is that part of the leave period must be at least three months, and only once can a change be made between parents. The father then, if he lives with the child in the common household, takes over the child's care mainly and the child's mother either abandons their entire or part of the child's claim or is prevented from caring for the child himself because of their employment. We Liberals have also tabled this request to amend the Mother Protection Act in order to achieve, as I said, that more fathers go in Karenz. In this request, we demand that the notification or application for the benefit of the age of leave no longer be made within just four weeks of the birth to the employer or to the service provider, as fathers, in particular in the first time after the new situation has been released, often feel overwhelmed and therefore are unable to claim a claim as quickly as possible. In order to enable men to reflect their role and to face the new situation, they should have available more than four weeks after birth to opt for a karenz period. The extension of the period currently four weeks after birth should also serve as a time for raising consciousness. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] But also the government did not respond to these demands, although the SPÖ - Mrs Mertel, I look at you consciously - originally used for the extension of the leave period for single parents. Unfortunately, a year after the popular desire, I have to note that not a single demand has been implemented, but only studies have been commissioned to report on possible measures. [[Abg. Silhavy: Mrs Mother has not read the report!]] It is a shame that we are not taking a step forward in women's policy just because ideological positions are now in progress. Ladies and gentlemen! I know my remarks were a little long, but it was a real need for us to define our demands again.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e15072	Mrs Motter! I would like to say for the sake of clarity that you have read motions for resolutions in your contribution to the debate in the text which has not been handed over to the Bureau and which are not to be debated. [[Abg. Mr Gredler: The motions for resolutions have already been tabled in committee.]] Good. That's just for clarity. The next speaker is Mrs Bures. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e15099	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Motter, I think that your question of what has been done in the past is a rhetorical one and would like to save me an answer. You know, of course, that in Austria, for example, the life situation of the women of my mother generation has differed significantly from that of young women today. Measures such as the equal treatment package, individual taxation and the time-limit scheme are not to be denied and have changed very much and very essential for women. But we could agree to say that much has happened but would be more possible. That is why I would rather talk about what the future should look like. What was the political objective of those women and men who supported this women's desire? - They are women and men from the population, but also women and men who have been sitting in this house and who have supported women's-people's desire not only as first signatorys, but also as part of the registration. The political objective of these activists was to create the conditions and conditions for women to be independent and self-determined in the future. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr Gredler.]] I would therefore like to mention this because in today's debate it was repeatedly expressed that all the political groups in this House agreed on the objective. There are only differences in how to achieve this goal, one distinguishes only with regard to speed and way. I would like to point out, on the basis of some examples, that I do not share this view, but I believe that there are political groups which, for ideological reasons and not because it is in the interests of women as a whole, do not wish to have an independent and independent situation for women. Otherwise, certain demands which, if implemented, would not be made on the contrary should not be raised. Two small examples are mentioned, since I believe that the debate has shown that there is no need for discussion with the speakers of the Freedom Party. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Madl.]] Everyone knows the demand for child money or check, which is not to be redeemed, as well as the demand for cleaning money, are means to push women back into the Stone Age, and have nothing at all to do with the desires and the reality of life of women. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rosemarie Bauer.]] Mr Schöggl! You must understand that my compassion for your "loneliness" in the Subcommittee is limited. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: I feel very comfortable!]] I personally would have felt that your participation was absolutely essential, and I believe it is open to the public that I now bring a quote from you from the committee. [[Abg. Böhacker: Pure superiority!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: Unfortunately, I have to make an actual correction!]] In the discussion on the question of the extension of childcare facilities, Mr Schöggl said that for children under three years of age, it was the most missing and the most likely to be in need of care facilities, that if women were already working with such a small child, he would put it in the same way as child care. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: That's a real statement!]] I think that's a scandal! That is why you have been in this committee for me, and my pity is limited. I would also like to refer to the position of the ÖVP and to the comments made by Mr Bauer. Our objectives do not agree when it comes to your model of pension insurance, the independent pension scheme for women. To acquire a pension through marriage, so to speak, through "permanent" of marriage, has nothing to do with independent age insurance. Mr Fekter said that we should just take a little bit of a nap with the men's pensions. - This is not independence, it is not independence, so it would achieve the wrong goal. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and representatives of the Liberal Forum.]] I shall come briefly to the report of the EIA. - Mrs. Bauer! You have said from this speaker's point of view that the right to part-time work is not the yellow of the egg. In your report, however, you write in the first sentence that the right to parttime work is a family-politically desirable measure. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: Reading by hearing!]] It follows on over ten lines that, unfortunately, it is not introduced. That is to say, the women consider it desirable for family politics - Dr. Khol and the majority of the ÖVP are opposed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rosemarie Bauer.]] Mrs. Brinek! That is why I would like you to address your appeal to think more, not to the women, but to your colleagues, Mr Khol. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Read the Hearing Protocol!]] Mr Khol! Think more about women's policy in the future; it would be appropriate. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and representatives of the Liberal Forum.]] I therefore share the view that the result, which is now really on the table, is unsatisfying and corresponds to the majority conditions in this House. - Mrs. Kammerlander! They spoke of a funeral of first order, of the burial of these demands. I know you probably didn't mean that. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: That's what it means!]] But I would like to conclude by stressing that, if it is a funeral, I will excavat this women's desire, so to speak. For us, every single demand is still on the table. You won't be wiped from the table either.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e15266	Mr Oellinger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e15285	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I congratulate you. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: You have not been to the committee either!]] You have succeeded in successfully defending what the women have tried to achieve with a women's people's desire. You've really done very well. After you, gentlemen, in the course of the savings package, have maintained that women have been clearly cut down in their possibilities and rights - I only mention the karenz money scheme, Mr Hums, and the karenz time scheme - and after you have succeeded in introducing the availability of women as a criterion to push them out of the labour market, you can now be surprised. I quote the "standard" last week - or was it this week? - in which it was about: Yeah, hoppla, the women... [[The microphone at the speaker's desk doesn't work for a short time.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann: The speech is not that bad! They're giving him power!]] They were surprised, the newspapers were surprised and the policy was obviously also that women want to return to the labour market after the early end of the career. You wouldn't have thought so! After all, you have built up a gap of at least one year - because special emergency aid has also been largely limited - it runs for at least half a year, a maximum of one and a half years - which is intended to prevent women from returning to the labour market. If they still do not understand, but want to return, they can be told - see judgment of the Administrative Court - that: Wait, my lady! You have child care obligations that prevent you from making yourself available to the labour market. That means we have to remove you, my lady, from the work process, unfortunately. Even though Mr Kostelka, moved by this speaker, says that men also play a role in the education of children - yes, should - I cannot give the impression that policy, legislation, in recent years, has put in place measures to facilitate men's ability to do so. [[Abg. Silhavy: Shouldn't!]] [[Abg. Gatterer: The divided karenz!]] Mr. Gatterer, the women are still on it. - There is no independent claim, whether paid or not, for men. This must prevent many men from exercising their opportunities with regard to the education of children, the care and support of children. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: But this is hypocritical!]] Mrs Fekter! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: How much percent do it do?]] It's a legal claim! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You don't do it anyway!]] I would therefore like to point out that Mr Kostelka has just asked for a lot of moves to ensure that the men of this right should also be safeguarded. Mr Fekter! This is not about payment - it is expressly stated - but about something that the EU has long called for in the educational leave directive. You may have slept, but we have to do that. Either you did not understand this correctly or you did not study the relevant EU directives properly, but we have to do it. We must also grant this right to men, even if the directive does not state whether it is to be paid or not. However, I think it is right to ensure an independent claim as a prerequisite for the compatibility of work and family life. Gentlemen! If, in fact, you are so much concerned that you should not only be compatible with women but also with men, you should have been working in this direction. For it would not have cost a great deal to create this claim, which, at least from the conditions, also offered men the opportunity to develop a different relationship with the children. However, this was not important to you, but it has been with the measures in the savings packages that you - I am returning to it - have been a matter of pushing women out of the labour market. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Such a fool!]] Gentlemen! That is the problem, and that is why you must be congratulated. The women's desire was the answer to these savings packages. Of course, it was only a question of restoring the rights of women who had been taken part in them (a) and (b) extending them to such rights as women in the economy, in society and, of course, in social security - because self-employed pensions for women would be something! - perceive as an independent subject. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: We want them right now! Yes! We want them!]] Or are they less people, second-class people? [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Supply compensation!]] My dear women! Now I'm with you, Mrs. Women's Minister! You said yesterday that there is not much positive to report on women's desire for women, except - if I have the right to remember - that at least a social security scheme has been introduced for small employees. I would like to say correctly that social security for the minor employed women does not bring a major claim to social security. The employers pay for them, but the women acquire this claim only if they pay themselves, 500 S! 500 S of a fee equal to 3 600, 3 700 or a maximum of 3 800 S. Only if the women themselves pay their own insurance contributions do they acquire a claim. But they have not said that this is a fee of 3 500, 3 600 or 2 000 s. Only if you pay 500 s at 2 000 s will you acquire an insurance claim! We have already told you in the debate at that time that this is the wrong way for those women who should help it. But for those you did not think of and should not necessarily be helped, it is a good way to get into the social security system. Unfortunately, this was not a good measure in the interest of those women you want to help. It means in the way you carry it out - although we are sure in the goal of integrating all into social security, - a step in the wrong direction. - Mr. Hums! There are other ways to check out those women who don't have money. And there must be other possibilities besides those who have only 2,000 or 3,000 s of income, to take away 500 s. If policy fails to ensure better conditions and social protection for these groups, it will fail. That's our problem. If you already have to praise this "hopper" solution for the minor employees as a success and that is to be the summaries and the balance sheet of the women's people's desire, then good night. I now come to a provision which I mention not only because of the fact that Parliamentary Khol is back in the Chamber, but because it shows to a particular extent that many of the provisions of the savings package have not only been concerned with taking away something because it is a matter of saving, but that it has been a matter of punishing women for their wife. You, Mr Feurstein, and Mr Khol, know exactly what the point is: It is about the fact that the increased care allowance is no longer possible for those single parents who do not specify the name of the child father. We have tabled a request to the Social Committee which today presents a negative committee report to the vote, according to which those women who cannot, for good and constitutional reasons, indicate the name of the child father or want to obtain the opportunity to obtain the increased benefit if they undertake to repay it. This measure would not cost the State, social security and unemployment insurance to a large extent. We have debated this in the Committee. And what has turned out, Mrs Bures, to be different from what you have said? There would be a majority in the house for that! With your group, there would be a majority in favour of abolishing this penal provision for women. The Socialist Group is, however, too bold to vote in agreement with the Liberal Forum, the Liberals and the Greens. And you can't make me know that this is a provision that would interfere with coalition peace. They were simply too brave to vote in committee to remove this criminal provision against women. And not only on this issue, but also on the constitutional provisions that are being discussed today, would most of them be found here in this House. There is, of course, a difference between a constitutional provision for women and a criminal provision for women, as is the case for single-parents in this pension provision. That doesn't cost anyone. This does not cost taxpayers anything, it does not cost social security, it does not even cost the coalition parties. For I would like to listen to the reasoning on which the ÖVP refuses to call the name of the child father the women who are single-parents for good reasons, and refuses to give them a pension fund in which they undertake to repay it afterwards. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Feurstein: This is a great injustice]] If you find only one reason why these women should be punished in the future, please tell me, Mr Feurstein. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But be a little more honest! Mr Khol, tell me that you do not want the single-parents! They don't want this status of women. They want to push women who are in this situation for good reasons back into the family, even if there is no family. For there is no other reason to punish exactly these women with the exclusion of increased carnage money! If you - and I assume you have done so, Mr Khol - talk to the Caritas advisory bodies or the Life Action advisory bodies on this question, they will have told you stories. They know what it is all about, namely, the decision of single women in pregnancy, whether they really want to carry out the child and can, if not even the first and second years of the child's life, be financially secured. Mr Khol! I am sure that you too have been spoken to by this House. For the squats from all the roofs of the women's counsellors are whistling that this was one of the most massive problems due to the savings package. And you have not touched an earwashing to help these women, in particular, because it was obviously more important to you from any ideological calculation - I put it so to you - to introduce this criminal provision against single women. This is indeed not a good balance for women's people's desire, if it is to be held that it is obviously not a question of seeking consensus in questions where such a one should be found, with or without ÖVP - I am still hoping for it - but of refusing to do so, of leaving the demands of the women's people somewhere in the room and of continuing to confess that women should be punished because they are alone. If you can stand on this balance sheet, gentlemen of the ÖVP, then I agree. The rest of this House should, however, be clearly distanced from it. There would have been a possibility for this in the Committee. Instead, there is a negative committee report on this issue. At the next meeting of the Committee in June, there will be another way to change this, and I hope you will see this modest opportunity to move at least on this issue.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e15467	Next speaker is Mrs Gatterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e15485	Mr President. Mrs Frauenminister! The initiators of the women's people's desire must be admitted that the topic of women was brought back into conversation. I would really like to know what the four young ladies in the gallery expect from the women's people's desire! [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Do you talk to us – or with the gallery?]] Mrs Mertel! Their calls are well known to be charming! [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: You're expecting educational money!]] I think we have recognized the women in particular at the countless meetings of the Subcommittee - 34 or 38 hours - because very few men have participated in these subcommittee meetings - where the problems lie. We all know, not least from the International Women's Days, how large the differences between men and women's incomes are and that there is a glass ceiling, so almost no women can be found in leadership positions. We have recognised this problem together. Discussions with experts have shown that the ways in which these problems can be solved can be very different. Nor did the experts agree on how to solve these problems in order to reach a good solution for women together. Some of the points of women's desire have now been implemented. And if, for example, Mr Oellinger sees the possibility that minor employees can insure themselves as a bad solution, then I must say: This so-called bad solution, Mr Oellinger, is important for many women who are missing retirement for a number of years, precisely because the demand for the ÖVP that child rearing should also be pensionable and that there should be a compensation for care has not been properly assessed. It is therefore still necessary for many women to acquire at least a few years' notice of this possibility of insurance in the event of minor employment. I believe that this should not be ignored, and that is why it is really to be described as a woman-friendly measure. I hope that she will stay with us women for a long time. The extension of childcare facilities is also positive. All women confess to the compatibility of family and profession. We could also imagine that more than 600 million schillings are being spent on this. In this context, we must also stress - Mr Bauer has debated this, because Lower Austria is a very good example - that it is not always possible to think of public childcare. Rather, we must try to find new forms of childcare. The daily mother's professional image, which we call for, is a very important step in this direction. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to stress and raise some of the objectives of the EIA very briefly. The main objective is to create awareness that women, as Minister Gehrer said, must be encouraged and men demanded. A second important objective for the EIA is that women must have the right to choose which model of life they choose. There can and must not be an established life model for women. This is a second important principle of the EIA, which I believe is a fundamental right that we should be given to women. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The third principle of the EIA states that, in all the demands for women, we must keep the balance between the protection of women and the protection of women. I believe that in economically difficult times, we must not make the mistake of making the obstacles to the profession even higher for them than it is anyway. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: Yes!]] It has already been mentioned several times today about women's solidarity. The question must be asked: What is women's solidarity? Does women's solidarity mean that ÖVP women must be absolutely in agreement with the SPÖ women, or could it be the other way round? Would it not also be necessary for women's solidarity that SPÖ is in agreement with the ÖVP demands? [[Abg. Silhavy: If the demands become reasonable, we would agree!]] Her clubman today claimed that the ÖVP had taken a step out of his hand. I don't know what he had in his hand, I didn't see anything. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I have the feeling that after he had negotiated it, the SPÖ women beat him out of their hand - whatever it was! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] They must have been behind his back because he did not see that it was the SPÖ women, but they did not stand behind him. That is what we really have to say in this regard! I would like to stress once again for the ÖVP: We have made important proposals for women. I very much regret that it was not possible to find a reasonable model of re-evaluation of work with the Minister for Social Affairs and the Minister for Women. I very much regret the rejection of the compensation, which many carefree elderly women would bring very quickly, because pensions are not discussed. Even if we create a model of self-sufficiency, this does not benefit these women. There is a study on behalf of the Minister for Women, in which it is said that it does not benefit these many women if there is a model of self-sufficiency in 30 or 40 years. We mean: These women would be helped immediately with the compensation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Above all, Klubobmann Kostelka, but also the other speakers have said that the ÖVP has an endless wish list. Some wishes have been on our list for a very long time Homeservice, re-evaluation of the work with pension reasons for children's education. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Homeservice!]] We could also imagine women being counted as children born before 1956. Why are these women who have been involved in a very difficult time, the so-called rubble women, excluded from it? - We have a lot of wishes. We could imagine a lot of things there. I therefore believe that it is not targeting that we should take all things into account. And if Mr Bures said about the liberals that they were lonely in the Subcommittee, I must say to the SPÖ Members that they were silent in the Subcommittee. Because I can't say what the SPÖ women really wanted. I was present at all the subcommittee meetings and had to find that they held back very carefully and actually did not say what they wanted. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] Nor do you, Mrs Mertel! You were there twice or at least once, I know, but You did not express your wishes. That is why I believe that silence... [[Call to the SPÖ:We have not issued a wish list!]] You don't have to spend a wish list, but you were silent to our great wonder. We have tried to bring in our wishes. This includes - and I am glad that all of my colleagues will vote in favour - the desire to anchor the woman in the Constitution. That's what we've considered to be the goal. I think the women must continue to fight. This debate on women's desire and the motions for resolutions tabled today is not a finale for me. Women's policy consists of struggle and movement. We still have many goals ahead of us. But I'd like to say: Because of today's debate and the motions for resolutions tabled, I am able to draw up a good interim report for myself and for the EIA.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e15631	Mrs Madl has the floor. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e15650	Mr President. The Federal Minister has left the hall. I understand them, because if I kept the failure before my nose for four hours, it would also be too much for me at some point! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mrs Gatterer! I am very pleased that in some respects the EIA has finally turned towards the line of the liberals. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: That's nothing new!]] You have probably finally insisted that the ideas of the liberals are really good and that they can also be enforced. Mrs Gatterer, if the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats are asking - do not let yourself be distracted by Mr Feurstein! - that child training should be pensionable, I must tell you: In the stenographic protocol, please read the speech of my colleague, Mrs Haller, today. That's what she said, and you just said that! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I am delighted when ideas accumulate here, because then women could really look something out. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] That's it! And also two or three demands that you, Mrs Silhavy, have made, we have been preaching liberals continuously for years. Now you have finally said that. I'm glad! It's a success! It's probably a success for women. [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] In today's issue of an Austrian daily newspaper, in the "Kurier", a headline reads: "Gen-plant and women's frustration." - This aptly describes the feeling and the situation in which those who have signed both the genetic engineering people's desire and the women's people's desire, for they cannot understand at all why these popular desires had so little effect. The Federal Minister has said that the twelve points which have been put to the vote today are already going a bit further. - It won't even give women a little bit! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] You can talk afterwards, you have enough speaking time anyway. You three-screams don't use anything. Although you have such a high voice, I don't care! The Federal Minister has said that twelve points are being voted on today and that this will bring a little further forward. - Zero's going to move it on, nothing! But what can be demanded of a woman minister who was a national councillor in the Upper Austrian Government and who, when it came to the distribution of the resorts, rejected the women's resort. The women's resort, which she now absolutely had to take over, is an unloving resort. In Upper Austria, a man had to take over the women's resort - read the minutes of the country day meetings! [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Look at the protocol first!]] Of course, the Federal Minister doesn't like to hear that. But we have the protocols at home, and every time she fails, she will hear it again. Isn't that right, Mrs. Federal Minister? - It's an unloved resort, the women's resort! You rejected it as the councillor of Upper Austria when they offered it to you, didn't you? You can't answer that! In view of this, I am not surprised that there is absolutely nothing going on in women's policy issues. Mr Maier said today that the elected mandates are finally the representatives of the people and do not have to take into account the demands of the signatorys of the people's desire. If the Social Democratic Party has a representative who claims this in connection with the genetic engineering people's desire, this shows that it really only uses the citizens as a "voice". The citizens do their duty and guilt in the elections, as they are emphasized for three months before, so that they make the crusade in the right place, and then they should remain silent for four years again. - That is your understanding of democracy and your understanding of popular desire! That's where I have to say: The Socialist Group has today revealed itself in connection with the genetic engineering people's desire! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I shall come back to something that has already been mentioned a few times today, namely in a way. Paragraph 7 1 Federal Constitutional Act. Unfortunately, Mrs Schaffenrath is no longer here. [[Abg. Silhavy: She's here!]] They were quite amazed because we have said today that we want to have a commitment to real equality. At the time, we have deposited our opinion in writing, because only the speech was about a confession. And before you get along with the planned confession in Abs. 2 para. 1 of Art. 7 Federal Constitutional Law so watered up and almost lifted up, it is indeed better, we leave it as it is, unless it is an obligation. That is why, Mrs Colleague, in our written opinion, we have noted that kind of thing. 7 as he is. Because it is restrictive enough, it only has to be executed. That's it! [[Abg. Schaffenrath: At the time you rejected it, the proposal of the coalition parties was not yet in place!]] But there have already been several signals in the media, Mrs. Colleague! You know how it works. In front of the Committee we have already been able to draw all of this from the newspapers, the APA and the OTS. The only changes that will help women a little bit, but really just a small piece, are the amendment of the Mother Protection Act and the amendment of the Parent-Carence-Retirement Act. On and on, however, this is only a very small step. However, I can't hear it any more when it comes to "very small steps". Why not take a big step that really gives those women who want to return to their working life after the leave? Today's change only requires that, for a short period of 16 days, they are allowed to exceed the limit on the size of the child in a monetary manner within the protection of the mother. - Why only in the short term? Why not take the entire time of one and a half years and share the times in which a woman has worked more on the one and a half years? That would be reasonable! This would give women, for example, the opportunity to make a three-week holiday representative. This would give women the opportunity to take over a medical office once again at their premises, where they will return. This is not possible, however, because it can only be exceeded for up to 16 days. That's why we make a request to the liberals. [[Quoted print version removed]] That would help the women a little bit.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e15794	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mrs Madl has been submitted in accordance with the rules of procedure, is sufficiently supported and is included in the negotiations. The next speaker is Mrs Konrad. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e15815	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Madl! Your chairman, who is not here now, once made a commitment to women's politics by saying that there is a leading part and a serving part in every relationship. - And with the serving part, of course, the women are meant! [[Abg. Aumayr: Such a fool!]] I think that's a fool! You're right! I think this is a very stupid thing! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You should say this to your chairman in due course, perhaps even more often! [[Abg. Aumayr: prove this!]] That is, you and unfortunately God also the other women from FPÖ are trying to sell the women for stupid. [[Lively calls to the liberals.]] But the women have long noticed that! However, I would like to make it quite clear here that you said no to almost all the points of women's desire and then wanted to sell it as a women's policy measure. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Aumayr: What did the men of your party do to you?]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I know you don't like to hear that. They are against women's promotion when it becomes concrete. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl.]] They are against concrete measures when it comes to women's work and family being compatible. They are against the independence of women. That is not why it is about today, but it is about measures on equality between women and men today. This is what we want to discuss today! [[Abg. Aumayr: What are the measures? Call me one!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Nut trees.]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] I believe you do not know what measures this is about. These are the measures listed in the women's desire. These measures are concerned! Ladies and gentlemen! I have to say that if the women's people's desire had not been there a year ago - that is a pity anyway - then Parliament would not be as intensive in dealing with equal opportunities as it has now been. [[Abg. Aumayr: Why aren't you women's minister?]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals]] For many, this was certainly a follow-up to equality between women and men. If you've used it this way - all the better! However, the measures we are dealing with are not just a year old, and these measures have not been called for surprisingly. They don't come out of nowhere. I should like to remind you that seven years ago the first equal treatment package was tied up. That's seven years ago! At that time, women from a number of political groups met and joined forces with this package, namely the Social Democrats, the Greens and the Greens. Because you mentioned this: Even in my short time as a woman minister, a package was put on the table. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: We were very glad that your term of office was short!]] Yeah, she was a little short, but I'm still happy if you're happy! - This package contained exactly the demands we are discussing again today. At the time and in all subsequent years, it was also about the requirement to set the actual equality of women and men as a state target in the Constitution. These were concrete measures to facilitate or at all make possible the compatibility of work and children for women. It was about models of self-sufficiency for women, and it was about concrete proposals for the revision of the relevant equal treatment laws. In the women's-people's desire, these important demands were re-assembled, and the result of the women's-people's desire shows that many women and men support and demand significant progress in the area of equality policy, even more: think and expect from us that we are urgently needed. Today, after intensive negotiations in the Subcommittee and in the Committee on Equal Opportunities, I do not want to say that some of us regret that the outcome of these negotiations looks the way it looks. We Socialists, and above all we Social Democrats, would have wanted another result. We would have wished for a great women's policy throw, with which women are indeed given more rights and more opportunities. We would have wished for a big throw that would have brought us closer to an actual gender democracy. I regret and many of us regret that the result was only the possible compromise with our coalition partner. In conclusion, I would like to say to the women of the ÖVP that I cannot imagine that they are really satisfied with what has come out and that they think that this can have been all. In any case, we Social Democrats will not ad act the demands of women's people's desire. We have tabled proposals and we will continue to work intensively towards gender equality.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e15970	Mr Dr Kier has now come to speak. The speaking time available to your club is 16 minutes. I'll set the clock to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e15989	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Konrad has concluded her speech with a remarkable sentence. It has, although understandable from its point of view, acknowledged that the women's desire for this federal government has failed. It has explained why and because of what mechanisms it has failed, but this Federal Government has failed, because if there was no compromise in this Federal Government that comes closer to the demands of the women's people's desire than what is being presented here - that these §-27 applications are pathetic, you know - then this Federal Government has failed, and you, Mrs. Konrad, are in total liability for the result. Even if I personally believe you would have done this or that personally, this will not help you. If you rule with such a partner, then you have the total liability to bear. That's it! We, as opposed liberals, tell you that, of course, we do not take the issues of women's desire from the agenda. Instead, we will tighten the way we are going, especially after today, at the beginning of the debate, two Federal Ministers have presented themselves, which they consider to be of parliamentary use. This was particularly remarkable in the case of Mrs Gehrer, who had not been present for a single minute during the whole of the 35 consultative hours in the committees, here a comparatively superfluous speech was made and then immediately removed. In the course of the debate, it has also justified its speech by the fact that it wants to intervene in the debate. To do this, I can say: If someone intervenes in the discussion by giving a statement and then blackmailing himself, then that all tells us about his political attitude! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] This was a serious political mistake, on which we will come back to speak on every appropriate occasion, for that is not the way to deal with us! This is not necessary, nor is it necessary, since the questions that concern it are burning. Equality and equal treatment are issues of great importance for an emancipatory, democratic society, for a society that is really serious about human dignity. Therefore, there is a need for a total reform. Because as long as we have a man-centered working world and a social system derived from this man-centered working world, we can do a lot of things cosmetically, but do not create a trend change. That is why we need a paradigm change in this context. For example, women's self-sufficiency should be a matter of course, without counting the previous career - I mean in a negative sense, because if she is positive, she will be charged anyway. If it is not positive in this male-centered working world, it is not counted. The result is known. That is why we support the approach to basic security and not because we believe that this is the only and exclusive means of resolving the emancipatory question. But it would be a lever to move the other necessary issues in the area of real equality and equal treatment. That, on the question of pension reform, we have not done anything again for the independent insurance of women, but, quite the contrary, with a provision in the constitutional rank, we have postponed the alignment of the retirement age to 2018, because apparently the Federal Government itself knows that success can be expected at the earliest in 2018, what equality in the working world is about to happen, speaks volumes. In my opinion, it is correct that at the beginning of the seventies, in the early era Kreisky, some things have succeeded - the family reform was called for example - but if today Federal Minister Prammer calls on successes of the first half of the seventies, that is simply not enough. The successes are beautiful, but we write 20 years and more later. Therefore, at the end of the day, I would like to make two more comments on the §-27 proposals I have already mentioned. If For example, you only change the Mother Protection Act and the law on parental leave, which is still called parental leave law, because in December 1997, you forgot that these two paragraphs must be adapted to what was adopted in December 1997, and that is then referred to as "reform", which is pathetic, really pitiful. And if a new § 92b is inserted in the Labour Constitution Act, in which something stands inside, which works councils may have always been able to do, then this is not really very pleasing, but at best a little demonstrational-plastative Funny. But also with § 92b you will not change the man-centered working world, because if the works councils make proposals before the re-evaluation of the work has been performed as an intermediate, these proposals will be sent to the companies. On the other hand, if the re-evaluation of work - one of our requests - would be done, then such business agreements would have a chance. Always the first one, the second one after that! I beg you, think You're over it! The subject remains on the agenda. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e16047	Mrs Steibl has now come to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e16062	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I want to start with a fax sent by a women's association from Vorarlberg. [[The speaker holds a sheet of paper up to the height on which an old woman, who is cut by Grimas, is pictured.]] I think this picture alone shows how discriminatory women deal with each other. This women's association is still supported by the public sector, from the Ministry of Women's resources. The image of this old woman alone, in my opinion, shows that there is not much of the many-quoted solidarity between women. [[Interlocutory calls from Dr. Mertel and Schaffenrath.]] Good morning! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[New calls from the Abg. Schaffenrath.]] I do not think that is necessary. You should look at this carefully and think about what groups of women need to be protected, ladies from the LIF. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] One should not pay so much attention to this, but still mention it. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: But you drew our attention to it! Let me draw your attention to this.]] I would now like to refer to item 1, women's promotion in the farms. This question could have been a long way from the SPÖ, for Johanna Dohnal, the Secretary of State for Women since 1979 - the first at all - started the initiative "Women 2000" in 1991. At that time, she asked me personally to take my initiative to promote women and improve opportunities in businesses. There is an activity report from 1994 with which this initiative has been completed, and Mrs Johanna Dohnal has stated as a statement that it is not a political task. The activity report includes public relations, reference companies and further development of the organisational structure in the initiative. I don't think that was enough. For the EIA is clearly and clearly committed to the objective that women are represented and must be represented at all hierarchical levels in the public service and in the private sector. We know that, although the formal equality of women is given before the law, we also know that the basic conditions are necessary for any change within the meaning of this law. One of them is the perception of the problem. There is no suitable patent solution. That's what Mrs. Minister knows. I was allowed to be in a small round at a hearing, and there the tendency and the dealings with each other were quite different than we heard in the media after that. All of a sudden, we were the ones that prevented everything. Who prevents something if clear, important specifications exist, which can then be implemented? - We're not from the ÖVP! That is why the initiative whereby farmers are increasingly obliged to agree with the Works Council on Women's Promotion Plans, and vice versa, the Works Councils are obliged to ask for women's promotion plans, is an important point for us. It is a further step and also a challenge for the works councils. I think that the union could be more committed to this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Silhavy: You have to order this also to the Mühlbachler!]] Mrs Heidrun Silhavy! For a woman's chairman or a trade union secretary, this is a broad field of activity. I am looking forward to all those works councils that are now working for women's promotion plans in the enterprises. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to mention the following: The Greens have submitted an application to amend the Federal Procurement Act in the way that companies applying the women's promotion programmes are taken into account in the award. This criterion, they write, could meet both domestic and foreign companies. It would therefore be in accordance with European law. That's not quite right. I have here an opinion from the Styria Constitutional Service, in which the decree is denied. It also states quite specifically that it is about competitiveness and also about the social components. That is exactly what we need to pay attention to and take the practical path. This practical path has been in place for a long time. We will continue to improve it with this change of law and hope that it will lead many, many businesses towards women's promotion programmes. It is also interesting that the Women's Secretary of the GPA, Sandra Frauenberger, writes in an article that equal opportunities programmes focused on targeted, company-specific human resources planning and policies aimed at making greater use of human resources. However, there is no patent recipe for equal opportunities measures. It states that it does not necessarily have to be a solidified law, because a law means that the worker has no way to manage these women's promotion plans flexibly. It is also interesting that the Minister of Women from 1999 onwards wants to link the award to this requirement in all SPÖ resorts. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: What's bad about that?]] I am already very excited about how this will be done at the Ministry of Women, because then all the women's projects would have to clearly explain which women's promotion programmes or equal opportunities programmes they have. And there is something better to add: that we are finally able to find out which projects are really being supported. This has not been possible at the last request of the budget - I thank my colleague, Applebeck from Styria - for this. Since I appreciate Mrs Bauer as a very reasonable woman minister, I am very surprised that, as my colleague Bauer has already mentioned, she writes that she is "unround" that she will also finance companies that support women and bring in appropriate programmes. Mrs. Minister! I have over 400 addresses of companies from Styria, Lower Austria and from Vienna - Vorarlberg will follow in the next few days - who have already been specifically involved in these programs. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: You got nothing from Carinthia?]] I would like you to pick out a farm from these four federal states and then support it with your funding. We have already done a great deal in this direction, and I am very proud that we have done a great deal of work in relation to women's promotion programmes and equal opportunities in the firms, especially with our initiative "tate instead of words", which I have already mentioned earlier. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am also very proud that Mr Bartenstein is calling up this Austrian audit for family-friendly work, that in Austria ten companies are seeking patenting and that, in the near future, there will be a federal competition for women- and family-friendly enterprises. We must look at all of this very carefully, and I can also give you a manual - there is also one on the part of the trade union - which will certainly provide you with good services for the women's promotion plans you want. I think that we are on the right track with the result of the women's desire. - Thank you for your attention - and that after 9 p.m.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e16189	Mrs Magnette has now come to speak. Stoisits. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e16216	Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Before I start with my actual remarks, I must fulfil a very sympathetic, welcome, but still mandatory practice. Mr Oellinger has made an amendment for 15 minutes, and he has also listened carefully, but he has not read it in writing. I'm gonna have to make up for that now. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: This is typical! What the men neglect, the women have to catch up!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I can only give you my warmest heart to this amendment. It is a matter of independent paternal orientation, a concern which - I am not looking at women now - should be strongly represented primarily by the male members of the House. I am pleased that I belong to a group which has such an intense advocate. I miss the others. The application is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! I must tell you that it is almost absurd if, from the reality of life, one has to demand these legal provisions - and I have no criticism of what there has been in Austria of social benefits for children or for mothers and also for fathers; I do not really want to question it at all, but I think everything is worth developing or very extensive - because we are still living in a country where, for example, a working father cannot spend a career with his child living in the common household, if not - and this is not the subject of insurance, -technical and legal - the mother of this child has an independent claim. This is precisely an example of how the actual equality of women is absolutely knowingly and willfully undermined by the legislator. Ladies and gentlemen! On the basis of the points of women's desire - I do not want to add them again now, they have been listed several times today - I would like to quote the many of you who are still well-known, unfortunately, from the National Council colleague Christine Heindl, who has been our women's spokesman for four years. There was one day in the National Council, when I was also a Member of Parliament, in my view, and I believe that the ladies of the House who were here at the time will remember it very positively. ==References== In December 1992, when the so-called equal treatment package in this House was discussed and then decided. At that time Christine Heindl, in a very serious way, formulated her, as she called it, ten commandments for politicians and announced to you. I would like to mention these ten commandments for female politicians once again to bring them to the attention of women's initiators. It is only more, if I see it correctly, that one of them is present, but everything is so to speak recorded in the Stenographical Protocol for eternity, and one can then spread it. Christine Heindl then gave us the following commands: "First: You're supposed to form women's coalitions." That's what the initiators did. They have joined forces across party borders, across ideological boundaries, and have taken the issue into their hands. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: Go!]] As I have participated in many of their events and have met many, I have noticed that the women who have been involved have come from very different worldly camps. - So they've fulfilled this command. So to speak, a plus point. "Second: Don't forget your women's coalitions." That's something that doesn't apply. The women's coalitions were quickly forgotten, but not by the initiators, but by the people's representatives. Because - today has been said so many times - it should be women's solidarity; I too have called it not very women's solidarity when Mrs Prammer and Mrs Gehrer have spoken - the result, ladies and gentlemen, that has come out, although there has been such a broad women's coalition, the result that is now being implemented is really a shock. So quickly a coalition was forgotten. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Klax.max!]] The third commandment that Christine Heindl set up at the time was: "Thirds: You should plan equal treatment projects in the long term, so that the lack of competence does not destroy your demands." There has been a developmental step that I have seen since 1992 in the field of competence. But he was so small that now in a positive women's coalition he had no effect in any point as it would have been in line with the intentions. The fourth point, which is very important for the future generations of women, is: "Four: You are to implement the implementation of all women's demands in the short term, so that not every new generation of women needs to be re-trained." Ladies and gentlemen! If the House implements the demands of the women's people's desire at the speed we have now experienced in women's-people's desire, then, please, the seventh and eighth generation of women after us, which we are sitting in this House, will be concerned with the implementation of these demands placed on broad women's coalition. So: Zero is fulfilled. Next Commandment: "Sixth: You must not keep men away from children and dishes so that they can experience the happiness of diapers and plates." That is exactly what happens in reality. Men are kept away from diapers and dishes and can't experience the happiness of diapers, plates and dishes. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: The Bruno should do something too!]] But this is not what the so-called integrations, nice and adred women and women do, who do not have the names Feministin, Emanze and so on, but who does it? - We'll do it! We women in the High House are encouraged to keep men away from tellers, dishes, diapers and children because we do not put exactly those positive measures that are necessary to promote women. [[Congratulations to the Greens and Members of the Liberal Forum.]] Next Commandment Christine Heindl set up at the time: "Sevenths: You should especially promote women so that through positive actions they can get the same starting conditions as men." Ladies and gentlemen! I admit that with the amendment of the federal constitution, with the amendment to Article 7, an attempt has been launched in this direction, but I believe that one is totally unacceptable. [[Abg. Scheibner: Who the hell saw the Heindl?]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Did you not want to be the successor to Mrs. Heindl?]] It is a totally implausible attempt, ladies and gentlemen, because if one does not even, although there is a very smooth majority here in the house, to decide on the word "obligation", but remains in the case of "obeisance" - what is to be kept by such commandments? [[Abg. Scheibner: Mrs Heindl was not very excited!]] The next and last commandment Christine Heindl gave you at the time is: "Tenth: You should finally ensure positive discrimination in the Constitution after 10 years, so that these measures are not removed from you again by new'men's knowledge'." I have hoped until a very, very short time ago that this command of Christine Heindl will be the only one - at least six years later - to be put into reality, but it has happened what I would not have expected, which I still have the faith in principles, especially in the principles of social democracy: Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ have done exactly what they have already done in many other cases: They simply and simply let themselves be neglected by their small coalition partner. Nothing came out! All over the place! There is no concrete result, ladies and gentlemen. That is why, at the end of the day, it will continue to be true that, contrary to the proposals made by my colleague, Mr Doris Pollet-Kammerlander, who has tabled a motion for a resolution, linguistic discrimination will not be abolished and personal designations of gender-neutral or male or female - depending on how they fit, as would be possible by language and by law and administration - will not be mandatory. [[Abg. Dispensers: (as the light shines in the mouth of the speaker) What light is this?]] [[Abg. Arbitrator: Is this voluntary speaking time?]] Nothing of that happened! The passage is still dirty, innocuous and so that you just keep a little bit of your appearance. In addition, it stands inside, these shapes can be used. That is why, if I would like to address Mrs Klasnic in Styria, I will still have the problem of how I address her in writing. I write "Dear Mr. Landeshuptmann" or "Dear Mrs. Landeshuptmann" or, for example, "Dear Mr. Landeshuptmann"? [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: These are the real problems!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You're not going to offer me a solution to my dilemma with this waschwashi, which is changing the federal constitution. And even if the woman's head of state in Styria may not be disturbed that she is a man according to the law, there will hopefully soon be other head of state women who are very likely to be bothering this. [[Abg. Scheibner: Do you ask the people if they are interested?]] Perhaps these then belong to a political group that makes a certain amount of pressure in this direction. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Do you ask the Austrians if they are interested in this?]] That makes me a little hope! I would like to say to the initiators of the women's people's desire: Please, just give up and just don't give up! The long breath and faith in the educational moment of politics should not be lost to you, even in the face of such a lean result!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e16441	The amendment, Mrs Mag. Stoisits has been submitted at the beginning of their statements, has been submitted in accordance with business rules and is included in the negotiations. The next speaker is Mr. Dr. Herbe. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e16460	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Like my previous speaker, I will also present in my contribution a number of points that are important to me in connection with popular desire and women's policy. However, I am not going to deal with the problem of "Chairman of State or Head of State". I do not consider this point to be so important. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stoisits: You're one of them too! That's clear!]] My first point, ladies and gentlemen: There are tiny progress - identified in trace elements, no more is that -, for example, the change in the Mother Protection Act and the Parent Care Leave Act as well as in the operational promotion of women. It must be noted that these are legislative changes that bring improvements, but more so is not, as has been said. As far as the constitutional provision is concerned, I must say that SPÖ's proposal 497/A would have real quality. I am very sorry that this is the subject of this constitutional provision. Even matter sits for weir and resists. There has been a formal error, so to speak, as a stupid protest. I therefore propose the following amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] First: So these are minimal progresses; we have to take note of that. Secondly, The SPÖ is not satisfied - not with the minimal results and not at all with the increasing loads on women in the working world and in general. Thirdly, The SPÖ wants a modern and advanced women's and equality policy and documents it in the SPÖ applications. The SPÖ will push the ÖVP and not lower it. Fourth: At first readings on these requests, the SPÖ will take a very clear view of the party for women and clearly illustrate the SPÖ's political objectives. Fifth, you open a bottle In view of the dissatisfaction of the SPÖ, the SPÖ's requests and the first readings on these requests, I do not de facto want to have a final report on women's desire. A de jure referral fails at the coalition partner, a referral fails to the majority. What are the political causes of today's debacle for women? - It is, on the one hand, a conservative ideology, on the other hand a enlightened image of a healing family idylle that simply does not exist in reality - people often live alone, there are Alone educators and single parents for a variety of reasons - and I believe that the key point is the overweight of economic interests. This is the embarrassing central point, ladies and gentlemen, because, despite the best economic forecasts, as the Austrian Institute for Economic Research in March 1998 has also noted, there is no willingness for the economy, the women who are important carriers of this development, to provide some fair compensation for the additional burden; for example, when it comes to extending the retention period after the leave of leave - item 9 of popular desire and SPÖ - for example, when it comes to improving the pay for single people - point 7 of popular desire and SPÖ - or - now the entrepreneurs come to it, Mrs Fekter - when it comes to facilitating part-time employment for women, that is to change flexibilization for women and not only for entrepreneurs. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Did you say that to the Minister of Finance?]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: We don't mind that! It's hypocrites! He would admit that the Minister of Finance does not have enough money?]] I'll tell you a story from reality. You don't know that. I was at the opening of a supermarket in Styria. The managing director spoke of the great satisfaction, almost of the enthusiasm of women with their 30-hour contracts and flexible working hours. A group of employees has been standing in the corner and has ginned bravely. - As far as the official part. Later and unofficially, the ladies came to me and said: Mr. Herbs! We'll tell you how it really is: It is always told us in the week before, how the service time looks in the next week. Often these are three hours in the morning, then two hours in the afternoon, next time two hours in the morning, five hours in the evening, then again on Saturday. Of course, the biggest, almost insoluble problem for families and child care brings. Board of Directors? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] - Woe, if someone in the operation only takes this word into their mouths! And the managing director thinks that if this doesn't fit someone - that's, of course, unofficial - then he can just give up his coat. There's enough others waiting. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: This is reality!]] Ladies and gentlemen! There is something like this in a federal country in which the Minister of Family of the ÖVP is never moved for beautiful words, and in a district where an ÖVP member, who has also belonged to this House and has overshadowed himself here with self- praise ten minutes ago, pretends to be in a unit of the country to stand for women and mothers. It's really sad conditions! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] Finally, Mrs Fekter: Unfortunately, progress is being blocked here in Parliament today! But there are also good days for women here in Parliament. I would remind you of the pension reform which has achieved really relevant improvements for women. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] Therefore, Mrs Fekter, the SPÖ will stand firm, fighting and credible for the fair cause of women.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e16601	The amendment, drawn up by Mr Kräub, is sufficiently supported and will be included in the negotiations. Mrs Povysil is now speaking. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e16622	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We women, gentlemen, hold over 51 per cent of the population, and that is clearly the absolute majority! Mrs Konrad! I was very surprised by one of your comments: They have almost necessarily postulated that in a partnership of the weaker part the woman is. Now I don't know. Is that your social picture? Is this the social picture of your group? [[Abg. Arbitrators: This is the sad reality!]] For us, there are quite interactions between weak and strong in women and men. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] But let's leave this aside. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The women's people's desire now is signed by over half a million Austrians! Over half a million Austrians, ladies and gentlemen of the government, were simply ignored by you! We have completed nine subcommittees and two committees, and we have had to note that the ideological contradictions between SPÖ and ÖVP are unfortunately insurmountable. The struggle between the worker and the citizen was noticeable and insoluble. Listen to what Ulli Simma, the spokesperson of Global 2000, says. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fuchs.]] She says - you have to listen to me now! -: "In addition, we often felt that the government was saying outwardly: We are on the side of the Signatories. But the law says what the industry lobby dictates." - Both of them are right: Ideology and lobbyism have been preventing a truly efficient women's policy for decades! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It would have a single - a single! - Five-party request, namely the question of the Constitution. You all know what it's all about: The ÖVP has prevented him, the ÖVP has fallen down in the truest sense of the word and has brought it down! There was therefore no single point in the women's desire to approve of all parties and all previously argued and separately submitted applications from the SPÖ and the ÖVP were withdrawn. We have already agreed, but only on vague, non-substantial common applications in the form of wishes to the Minister. For example, it is asked to check the pension insurance system. - I do not know what new developments have been decided in the pension scheme, as you have said, Mr Deputies. I have never noticed you in the committee either. You weren't there as much as I know! Or: According to a request, the Minister should present a study on income development. - I'll find out. This is a typical Austrian non-solution of problems! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There has been no agreement at all on the really important questions - pension schemes, part-time work, pensions! Our principle on this whole issue of equal treatment has always been to create equal freedom of choice and design for men and women in comparable situations. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That's just a keyword!]] We cannot agree to all points of women's popular desire, but we have tried to position ourselves on the important points and show effective and quickly feasible solutions. For example, I call the item "contracting to entrepreneurs". A solution can only be a minimization of the risk of caring for the entrepreneur, otherwise he does not hire women. Or the claim "Equal pay for equal work". This is a very clear, practically centuries-old demand, which we naturally support. If one wants to meet this requirement, a change in wage policy in Austria can only be made by tax relief of businesses and incomes. [[Live calls.]] Another very important requirement for us is the freedom of choice of women for work and/or family. This has been requested by us for years by the childcare check. However, this application concerning child care check is still in the Ministry of Minister Bartenstein for examination and will not be examined! [[Abg. Schaffenrath: What do you think who remains at home?]] I said: Decision for work and/or family. You must listen to me, Mrs Schaffenrath! You have often failed to do so in committee. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies from Social Democracy! Since the Kreisky era, there has been a government secretariat for women, there has been a women's ministry for several years, and after so many years of social-democratic women's policy, we are still in the same position! But I am very glad that Mrs Prammer has come to the conclusion today that there is really much to do. A surprisingly good statement! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] However, as your minister has said, women in the premise of power still stand, there are still a lot of women in senior positions, and men are still preferred to women in equal qualifications. Mr Kostelka is already sleeping in this speech on the qualifications of women. [[Abg. Arbitrators: But this is your speech, and not the question of women.]] And what happens if these women then turn to the equal treatment committee that you feel is so good? - Then they will be found financially, but that will change in terms of personnel decisions and staffing at all and absolutely nothing! Ladies and gentlemen! Just as this equal treatment commission does not bring about a causal change in women's problems or in women's policies, so the treatment of women's desire did not solve the problems at all. The desire of the people as the voice of the people is simply no longer important to the rulers and the powerful. This was clearly demonstrated by three popular desires. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There is no live direct democracy. For a meaningful implementation of a popular desire can only take place if, after popular desire, a referendum is imperative. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You're too long in power! You have forgotten who and for whom you are ruling!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e16764	Mrs Horngacher has now come to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e16782	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! There have now been a number of subcommittees on women's people's desires. I was far too one-sided. It was only about politics for the self-employed woman. But there are also self-employed, farmers and housewives. That is why women's policy must be more comprehensive! Besides, I don't like the picture that's being drawn today. If you listen here for a few hours, you have the feeling that the women are a protective minority. Ladies! We're not a protective minority. The women make up more than half of the population! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We've done a lot too. Let me give you a little example: 20 years ago we had four parish councillors in Tirol; now we have 263 councillors. It's done something! We come and want to be part of the partnership, and we come incessantly! Yesterday, however, two Members were expelled from this House, for which two men came: That was a step backwards in this matter. The basis of any successful development is, of course, training. Here we are on the right track. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Chief.]] Yes, very nice! In the university field, the number of graduates increased to 45 percent, and the proportion of women among primary students is already 55 percent. These young women will conquer their places, and I am convinced today! In women's policy, it is very important for me to combat blatant disadvantages on women. In social law, for example, when the last change took place, all women who were under the 1st century changed. ==References====External links==* Official website You didn't count on that. This is all the more dramatic than these women - there are also many women in the agricultural sector, but not only there - will hardly have the opportunity to meet these conditions, but will be forced to stay in work for five years. I believe that this measure, in addition to the resulting family policy disadvantages, has also seriously disturbed the confidence of women in social policy and social legislation. A gradual transitional solution, especially for these four years, to be here, would be urgently necessary, and I call on you, Mrs Minister, to stand up for it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My previous speakers have already mentioned our own-initiative proposals. It seems particularly important to me that the motion for a resolution on the further development of statutory pension insurance in the direction of self-employed old age insurance for each woman should be made. It is certainly also about making child rearing hours pensionable. For me, too, the way - he has been addressed several times today - of the childcare check, linked to the obligation to pay pension contributions, would be a possible solution. In fact, then, there is freedom of choice for women. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I say quite clearly that it would be my wish - and in the long debate on women the children were hardly mentioned - if as many mothers as possible could and would remain with their children in the first and most important four years of life. However, re-entry aid - which is also available for this - should be significantly improved. Those years in which the mothers are there for their children and give them security and warmth for a whole life are probably also very precious years in the life of women and very important for the future of their children. Some will now think: Now the last one is talking about yesterday. But if you talk to young mothers and if you read the study in which it says that over 80 percent of young mothers prefer to stay with the child for the first four years, then we may be the first of tomorrow with our demands. Perhaps there is a rethinking about the value, even among the fathers. For even the fathers belong much more to the children than they have so far! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Today we have a very unfair situation regarding childcare. Think about it! If a man and a woman each have a good job, earn a lot of money, and give the woman of this child a year and a half to a child, they pay for it, on average, about 3,000 s per month, and the public hand still pays 12,000 s. However, if a woman has four children and stays at home with these four children, then there is only one earner and there is nothing for childcare. The woman has no option of buying a pension claim, and she can't calculate the child's education times anywhere because there is no pension claim. Their children will pay pensions for women who have not raised children, but their own mother has no claim. I don't think I'm right! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I do not understand the Greens in this matter. It should actually go with us on this point. Your Greens are putting you in charge of all things worth protecting - that is what I confess to you honestly -: You protect the toad, you protect the hazelnut shrub, you don't want nature from second hand, but the children, the most valuable we have, should prefer with the second best solution, namely with the state childcare. The best and most natural for each child in the first years is the care by its own mother and father. There's no replacement for that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] From the fourth year of life, however, it makes sense for the children to come to kindergarten. Women have a lot ahead of men, such as the motherhood, that is, carefulness in dealing with human life. When you talk to women, their concern almost always applies to the children, their own family and the well-being of their families. Women's life does not only consist of work and career. Minister! I would therefore like to ask you to see women's policy comprehensively and to work for all professional groups and all women.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e16889	The next speaker is Mr Brauneder. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e16908	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to comment briefly - five minutes, as I hope - on the proposed constitutional provision. Very soon: This constitutional provision is unnecessary, it may be harmful, and it does not correspond to the intentions of popular desire, at least to a large extent. It is unnecessary for the following reason: Each standard of law depends on actual behaviour. There is no legal standard that does not depend on or prohibit social behaviour. Therefore, when you write: The federal, state and local authorities are committed to real equality, and this opens up a certain perspective for the new reform of criminal law, which may then be called: The Federal Government, countries and communities commit themselves to the actual prevention of murder, murder, fraud and so on. And the reversing that only because the word "real" is used and not only is spoken of equality, an actual state is, so to speak, close to tangible, is, as has been said, a controversial conclusion. This provision is therefore unnecessary because each legal standard has such an intention. In detail, the second sentence is that measures - and so on - are permissible. - Of course, measures are allowed in the sense that they are laid down here! Here, the excess is even turning into injury, which is very serious, because, at least so far, such measures have been clearly required. In every fundamental right, even if it has become a subjective public law, there is a state objective and thus a command. This can be demonstrated by various examples. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] 5 minutes, Mrs Fekter! I like to talk to you afterwards, including about it! Since we now have a different constitutional provision than the previous equality rate and the Lex posterior is detogating the previous law, one could fall on the idea of saying: The current level of equality is being changed, because what is required so far is suddenly only more acceptable. - Maybe it's harmful. Secondly, Admissibility. The sentence "Bund, countries and communities can take action" sounds almost like a provision of competence. Should this mean that it is permissible for countries - because of the word "allowable" - to conclude that they are taking measures to achieve real equality, and also where the federal competence so far applies? Once again, it is about equal constitutional law, and it cannot be said that it is a provision higher than the other, but according to the legal criterion, the younger law raises the older one. I do not want to address the word "measures", but experts in the history of the Constitution will remember that Article 48 of the Weimar Constitution uses the word "measures" in connection with the President of the Reich. Read how this word "measures" was interpreted! - The word "measures" in this sense is an undetermined concept of law and chargeable with all kinds of things! Finally - and this is harmful -: If one reads from the word "measures" that a quota arrangement is required, then it - I would like to call it so - contradicts the principle of collective equality in the so far individual principle of equality. For there could be a case where candidates of both sexes, divided into several persons, do not consider what is not ineligible in this particular case. And if anyone professes to our fundamental and freedom rights as individual rights and not as collective rights, he must have a particularly sharp eye for that! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Thirdly, The popular desire sought, among other things, that the actual equality should be achieved through legal measures. There is an entire catalogue for this, and this catalogue has not been implemented in this form. - I've said this before. People's desires do not have to be implemented by us as a self-souver. But if one considers the introduction of this constitutional provision to be a comfort to those who have signed the popular desire, then even if I do not want to use the word "abuse of the Constitution" now, I must call it a strong piece. It is a strong piece to write something into the Constitution, which has no legal place at all there! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e16979	Mrs Mag (S). — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking Mrs Magnette for Worm to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e16997	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I had a dream. I had a dream that women and men will actually live in this state, not only in 2020, but even in 2050, if all this has perhaps finally grown historically, but already in this legislative period. I was hoping that we could set the course right now. I had the hope that this popular desire, which was introduced about a year ago, would bring about this 12-point women's manifesto, which would bring about the necessary thrust in order to pass legislation to implement these demands in order to fundamentally change the specific situation of women's lives in that state, to reduce the disadvantages and to further eliminate them. For the creation of a gender democracy - Mr Kier has already mentioned this today - which has something to do with equal treatment and equality policy and justice, to use its strength and to work to make it all worth it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I had a dream, namely that the women are solidifying across the party borders, that they are persuasive with the men of their clubs, and that we can thus implement the essential points of the demands. At the beginning of the discussions in the Subcommittee, it looked like this, and Mrs was able to gain hope that it could work, that we would act together in a number of points, march together, fight and also implement a number of things. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We want to implement a lot of things for a common and just thing. [[Cheerfulness of Deputies Dr. Krüger and Meischberger.]] [[Abg. Dr. Karlsson: (in the direction of the liberals) You probably looked too deep in the glass!]] Yes, I had this dream, even if you laughed! But then came the disillusionment: Women's policy apparently separates the parties more than others. The dividing lines become clear and visible. It became clear that the conservative majority and the social democrats separate worlds. It became clear that advanced political positions of the ÖVP women, who existed, could not find the majority in the ÖVP club, but that those - that is my assessment - who, with their smoothed-up image of women and their archival ideology, have already been able to find generations of women and who simply do not want to know that social reality has long since caught up with them and has long since been another. [[Congratulations at the SPÖ and the Liberal Forum]] Where are the khols and mutes on the ÖVP's list of speakers today? None of them are on the list of speakers! Nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen, they are directing them here. I also address the right side: Where have the Haiders and Stadlers been during this whole debate? They are not present, the Haiders and Stadlers dream of a partnership in which there is a leading and a serving part! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Calls and calls between the SPÖ and the Freeman.]] All those who would still like to see the women behind the herd are not present at this debate, but they are, as I have said, directing. I say that our efforts are simply being ignored by all. The more refined and skilled are officially saying that they are not opposed because they are already a bit more advanced, but they do not do much for women, for example, to be able to reconcile work and family, or that partnership in living communities and marriages is considered desirable. However, some hot tips in the form of calls have already been made: For example, the proposal that the grandmothers should take care of the anchors seamlessly after the care of their own children. Didn't you say that? I was just about to ask Mr Klubobmann Khol about it, because from this direction came the idea. Who cares, however, if there is a grandmother in the Meanwhile, about the grandfather? This question remains open to this proposal. Openly, this exposing proposal also remained what those women who still have a working mother or their mother who should take over the role of the grandma are looking for work in order to have at least a few years together to receive their own pension, so that she does not stand before nothing in old age, because the brave grandfather has looked after a younger, fluttered woman. If we are serious about equality policy and women's policy, we must make serious proposals and implement them. The proposed abstractions and Sunday speeches do not help anything in which everything that is good and expensive is supported, because the proposals have to be implemented in fact! [[Intrusions of the Abg. Scheibner.]] The compensation is therefore not a good solution, because, as we have already told you at the committee meetings, there are also unmarried women who have a right to a decent pension. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Why didn't you deal with our concept?]] Ladies and gentlemen! I come to the conclusion, because the time is short: What we decide here and today... [[Abg. May. Stadler: Which Grandpa was that you used to talk about?]] What grandpa was that? - They're not Grandpa yet, but they're no longer fit! What is being decided here and today can only be described as a first step. A great deal has already been done, from the Social Democrats. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] I have already said this during the first debate on women's people's desire: In women's-people's desire, other demands would have been made if they had been on the row! [[Abg. May. Stadler: I'm not Grandpa yet!]] Yes, be glad! The further demands failed with the majority here in the house. But they are not from the table, and I still have a dream for which it is worth fighting for! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now I would like to say goodbye to the tyrolean greeting or almost martial cry: Women, it's time!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e17137	Mrs Aumayr has now come to speak. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e17155	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! - Mrs. Minister, I would have been as saved today. It is in fact a pleasure to experience it in the Committee. I have to give my permission to Mr Gatterer: In the subcommittees too, the SPÖ women were so silent and reluctant that until the end they really did not know what they really wanted! [[Abg. May. Stadler: You haven't heard from Grandpa either!]] If you go here now and blame us for nothing going on, then it is extremely cheap! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I would just like to remind you of the first subcommittee meeting, Mrs Minister: You were only here for a short time, remember? They had an urgent appointment in Graz. You should have helped your predecessor, Mrs. Konrad, then. - Mrs. Minister! They were not successful in Graz, but they were also not successful in women's popular desire! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mrs. Minister! You've taken this woman's popular desire for yourself. That's why you didn't succeed, but you've totally taken over. Because you do not pursue women's policy, but simply and simply socialist ideology. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Otherwise, it is simply impossible to explain that you react so violently when we discuss the child care check. It won't exist, you said from the government bank today. [[Abg. Fuchs: Hopefully!]] I really want to know what arguments there are against this babysitting check. Mrs. Minister! That would mean freedom of choice. But it bothers you that there will probably be no more state-owned child rearing. For some women might come to the idea that they actually stay with their children and do not want to put the education in your hands. [[Abg. Fox: And what about the others?]] That's the only reason! They want a state, an ideological education, and that's why the family doesn't fit you. [[Abg. Fox: You have no idea! Not a little bit!]] It is not right to make a policy by which the achievements of those women who choose to do so - and that is their own right and their duty - will not be paid for and care for their children with a single schilling. I'm telling you, this is really a scandal! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They promote emancipation at the expense of the children! There will never be support for this. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] How necessary the education of children in the family association is to be seen at all corners and ends. Don't you read any more newspapers at all? The last issue of "Die Zeit" reads: "It's our children, violence is increasing dramatically among young people." Today in the "Kronen-Zeitung": "The monsters beat back. More and more young people are becoming criminal, drug addicts, serious criminal offences." Or in another newspaper: "Collectional Education Makes Sick!" [[Abg. Fuchs: Please say that to an educator!]] No, no, no, If, through politics, children are not given the opportunity to get their right to security, love and protection in their first years, then we must not be surprised - no, Mrs Colleague! - if there are such problems with our young people. [[Abg. Fuchs: There are so many scientific studies on this!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We want those women who take time for their children, time, love and patience... [[Abg. Fuchs: That's pointless!]] No, that's not pointless! Your policy is pointless. We want the benefits of these women to be paid in the same way as those of a working woman. [[Abg. Fuchs: They don't do anything with their children, the active women?- Oh, my God!]] That's what we want! This does not fit into your ideology, and therefore every policy fails in this direction.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e17317	Mrs Fekter has now come to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e17332	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! I am a little horrified by the aggressiveness of the debate on women's affairs in this House. A theme will be edited at the speaker's desk and represented in a massive way, where statements like "I am jumping in the face" will come from behind. [[The speaker points to Abg. Fox]] [[Abg. May. Peter: I didn't hear that!]] I have to tell you quite honestly that's horrifying me. [[Abg. May. Peter: She didn't say that! There I am witness!]] Then I'm sorry if I got it wrong. For me, however, it was already an aggressiveness in the ton situation. It has already begun by saying that, when words like "care check" or "home service" have fallen, immediately an insidiously aggressive defence behavior came from the left, both of the woman minister and of the colleague Bures, who spoke about "clean money". I think she meant a variant similar to the service check. I personally have been given the impression that the left side of this house considers childcare to be something just abominable. Mrs Schaffenrath has once intervened: The most hostile thing there is and what it should be avoided as far as possible! [[Abg. Fox: She didn't understand!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This opinion cannot be shared by the ÖVP. I'm sorry, but we have a different understanding of the existence of a woman and of child care. Don't get me wrong! I am a typical example of those women who do not want to be at home on the stove. But I'm proud that I had the freedom to vote. We must allow women to choose this freedom of choice, either for a professional life or for childcare at home. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, this freedom of choice has never really been discussed in the debates on women's people's desire, instead there have always been only very one-sided keywords. As quite shy and rather class-warring, I feel the polemic view of Bures, a "service check", which in France, a country known to me as a country known to the left, has long since been described as "cleaning money" and also reject the "home service". With these solution models, we want to enable women to have their own social security insurance for years of work and to secure their pensions. Ladies, my dear! You rejected that! No majority could be found for this. Why don't you put off your scumbags? Then you will realize that this is something that in your ideology is called "redistribution", from people with good income to those who have not had a regulated income. Do not oppose this good approach, which would bring jobs to many women. Now to the constitutional provision and to which, as I think, not quite fair argumentation of the liberals. The liberals first signalled approval, and then when we changed the expression "promoting equal opportunities" to "factual equality" to the Committee's request, they did not agree. And today, Mr Brauneder, from this speaker's point of view, is criticizing this very word "equalization", which was previously demanded by both the liberal and the left-hand side. I don't know how we should have behaved to get your consent. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I do not, however, hide my dissatisfaction with the way in which we change the Constitution in the House. I am unhappy that we are adopting constitutional provisions within the framework of a law on occasions. I have already been unhappy with the subject of "advertising" and I am now unhappy that the decision is not taken in the overall context of a constitutional change, but only due again. The wording as such, I believe, is justified, also by a clear EU law. It is in line with the Equal Treatment Directive. Our proposal was to include this equal treatment directive in the Constitution. The Social Democratic side then expressed the desire to take up the formulation that the Federal Government, countries and communities commit themselves to the actual equality of man and woman. I consider this to be rather a restriction, because there is a restriction on public service with the decision-making presupposition of local authorities. We from the EIA did not necessarily need this, but unfortunately it was necessary to find such a restrictive solution with the Social Democrats. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e17411	Mrs Jäger is now speaking. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e17427	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have also felt that women's people's desire from the very beginning was very positive and supported it. I considered the public debate to be very encouraging. As a result, the topic of women in Austria was dealt with very intensively. However, I do not hide that I am not satisfied with the results now before me, I find it disappointing! Today's debate shows that women also have very different ideas and very different interests. I particularly regret that we have not succeeded in meeting those points of women's desire which concern the existential problems of women. These were legitimate wishes and demands, and I would like to mention these points. All experts agreed that family duties are the reason why women are disadvantaged with men in working life until retirement. - In this question, I think we have no differences. The female employment rate is currently around 60.7 percent in Austria, which is not particularly high in the European comparison. In the present situation, women's unemployment is even increasing, so I think it is necessary to support women's return to their work after karenz. This would have been very necessary if the demand for the retention period were to be met. The implementation of the requirement for the legally binding possibility of part-time work for fathers and mothers would also have been an important matter. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am disappointed that, when it comes to these issues, the ÖVP family party is rapidly turning into the ÖVP. As Mr Dr. Stummvoll made it clear in yesterday's budget debate that the Austrian economy is currently in a very good position, I believe that the Austrian economy should also be interested in fulfilling this small desire for part-time work for mothers and fathers who at the same time have care obligations. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: This is not a problem, Mrs. Colleague!]] When can we make such demands, if not at a time when the economy is half working well? I find it very disappointing that it was not possible to achieve that. We Social Democrats will not allow the interests of the economy to be placed on the interests of the family and private life. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This House is constantly calling for greater flexibility by the representatives of the liberals and the ÖVP. - But once flexibility is required in the interests of the families, you are not willing to agree. All countries that allow this flexibility and provide part-time work have thus gained very good experience. In the Nordic countries, for example, there is a right to part-time work. There is a high female employment rate, low wage differences and a high birth rate. As far as the birth rate is concerned, Austria is right behind Italy, which has the lowest birth rate. This problem could also be solved by improving the compatibility of work and family. Mrs Bauer referred to the very constructive work in the Committee. I would like to confirm that. The discussions were also interesting. It was a good job. However, I am very sorry and must repeat what some Members have already said: Obviously, in the negotiations, even with Klubobmann Dr. Khol, it was not possible to put into practice essential points of women's desire. In this respect, we do not have anything to do with Social Democrats except to continue to discuss and deal with the proposals we have put forward on the subject of "part-time work" and "retainable period".
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e17474	The next speaker was Mrs Petrovic. - Ladies and gentlemen, you have a speaking time of 9 minutes at your disposal. [[Abg. Silhavy's going to the speaker's desk.]] I sometimes have vision problems, but I can still distinguish that far. Mrs Petrovic, come on! Your speaking time is 9 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e17499	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! First of all, I would like to make a few brief, concrete comments on some of the contributions to the debate and then come to my main concern. First point: It could be done so much in small sizes, including you, Mrs. Federal Minister. - I know that the women of a childcare initiative in Galla, where 17 children are already being cared for, have been with you. The caregivers have done enormous self - service. They were promised promotions and promised in writing. But now there's nothing for them. Mrs Perfuss! I know the women were with you, too. They are currently working black and exploiting themselves. They were told from the Social Democratic side that they could not do anything, that they could not do anything. It's just like that. Second point: Women with special needs are on the one hand single-schoolers. If you are talking about flexibility on the part of the workers, we must also see this term further and realize that there are other women with a special need for support and also disabled women in addition to the single women. All these are not even mentioned. On the third point, which is mainly addressed to the EIA, especially to Mrs Horngacher: As you have complained about the attitude of the Greens, I must point out that we have tabled a request for a pension system which, from a certain age, provides for a real minimum pension for every person, man and woman, i.e. also for those persons, especially women, who - I say this under quotation - have taken care of "only" children. I would like the EIA to vote in favour of this request. The equestrian foot from the point of view of the ÖVP is the financialability. That is to say, top pensions from the public system are no longer going out, but pensions lie in a range between about 8,000 S and 30 000 S. I invite you, discuss this with us, and agree! It would be a first step towards genuine minimum protection, especially for women. A brief fourth comment on Mrs Steibl, who meant that a change to the award law towards mandatory consideration of women was unconstitutional, EU-law. [[Abg. Steibl: I didn't say "illicity"!]] - That's a very defensive argument. If the genetic critics had acted in this way, the ban on Genmais would never have been reached. If Social Democracy had argued this way at the beginning, we would still work 16 hours today. This argument does not count at all. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] In a fifth and last concrete point on the nomenclature: I ask those who think it doesn't matter if a name is male or female: If it doesn't matter, why isn't the male name used all the time? - In the case of certain subordinate functions of women, the "in" has always been used: the operator, the washing woman, the burgler, the nurse, the mammoth. With these names there have always been the female forms. Only in the case of the President or the Minister of the Interior has the "in" been kept silent. Language can be treacherous! I strongly propose introducing legal obligations on this point too. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: These are not really the problems of women, Mrs Deputies!]] I now come to what perhaps you, Mrs Partik-Pablé, see as the real problem, namely the constitutional level. I fully share the view of President Brauneder in the legislative quality of the government proposal that has now been submitted: This is a legal puss, as it is no longer annoyed! Mrs. Federal Minister! I am also afraid that the male-dominated Constitutional Court can really bring about a deterioration of its constitutional position for women. I do not know what you are saying, Mr Nürnberger and others. [[Abg. Nürnberger: What is it again?]] Maybe that's not so important to you. It should, however, be of interest to social democrats. Parliamentary herbs have said that it is a embarrassing result, Mrs Worm had a dream, and it has been consistently claimed by you that it is mainly the ÖVP and the FPÖ. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group! I see it differently. You know that there are now four parties that contribute to a somewhat tougher and more legitimate constitutional provision. [[Abg. Silhavy: Mr Brauneder said something else!]] It was said that the Members of the Liberal Party would also support the request made by Greens and Liberals, by Mrs Pollet-Kammerlander and by Mrs Schaffenrath. That would be four parties with a rich two-thirds majority. That is to say, it is up to the Social Democrats if this request is not decided. In my opinion, for two words in one motion, Mr Khol will not ask the question of coalition and go on new elections. It's just you. But you need a spark of political courage. They always claim that there was a conservative ideology. I'm telling you, there's only one more power ideology and nothing else. You could achieve here and today that this request will become reality with the somewhat better constitutional provision. Mrs Wurm! You would no longer have to dream about this. But if you do not agree now, you will wake up and notice that you have left the whole thing on the level of a dream. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group! We wonder who actually negotiated the Coalition Agreement. Was it not worth the women's business to agree on a coalition-free area? Was it really just the promille limit and a little something else enforceable in this regard? [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: This has been prevented!]] Wouldn't you have been able to argue about this as well as the shares rights of Bank Austria? Or are the women not worth so much? It is here and today only because of social democracy! [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's right!]] [[Abg. Bures: That's not true!]] Four parties would be in favour, and there is no reason and no excuse, because the EIA does not let the coalition go because of these two words. The liberals will act in this way during the vote. [[Abg. May. Stadler: I can confirm this!]] You confirm it. Everyone's going to vote like that. We'll vote for the first time. All the representatives of this party will vote, as do you, Mrs Bures. It is time and again to recognize the lack of willingness of social democracy to fight for some point of content for which it has once stood.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e17646	The next speaker is Mrs Silhavy. - Please, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! It is extremely gratifying that the presence is so perfect, but that, of course, increases the difficulty to speak.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e17673	Mr President. Appreciate members of the government! High house! Mrs Petrovic! You have just, so to speak, very effectively presented us, as you believe, to bring the coalition into a certain force. Mrs Petrovic! You know our request - I assume that you have read it - and you know very well that, in fact, the SPÖ application has included the word "proclaim" and your word "compulsory". Therefore, you also know the reasons for content. It looks very funny when the FPÖ says it goes with your request. If you have listened to Mr Brauneder's comments, you have not come to this view. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] So I don't know! But this is the typical type of FPÖ: You don't know what she actually wants and where she's going. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl.]] The Federal Minister said earlier today that it was already a success that we did not take a step in the wrong direction. Ladies and gentlemen! If one has listened to today's speeches, one really understands this statement. The statements by the representatives of the FPÖ do not particularly wonder because the party leader still has the moral and role image of the ruling man and the serving woman. In view of this, of course, there is nothing to expect from women's politics. That's clear. However, it is unfortunate that the speakers of the EIA also confirm this statement by their contributions to the debate. Mr Khol has answered the question, I think, to the honourable Member, whether he does not want to speak on this issue today, with the usual Si-tacuisses proverb. This should also be put to the heart of your fellow Members. Perhaps it would have been better to keep silent today, then the ÖVP might have been reduced to women's political ambitions. For example, Mrs Gatterer's comments were very interesting. It regrets that two ministers are unable to find a model for an evaluation of work. Mrs Steibl said that in future the task of works councils is to implement women's promotion programmes. - Mrs. Steibl! What about the companies? Where were statements from you, Mrs Steibl, or anyone else from the ÖVP, than at the time of the women's popular desire of the President of the Economic Chamber of Styria made a very interesting statement? [[Abg. Steibl: This alone is not a women's promotion programme!]] Mr President, I should like to thank you for your support. Perhaps now you will listen carefully to what President Mühlbacher said about the women's desire: He doesn't sign! A woman has to decide whether to make a career or to be a woman. - So... A career or a woman! Both of them obviously do not exist for the ÖVP. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Oh, yes! I am a typical example of this!]] Mrs Fekter! Listen! Mühlbacher from the Steiermark Chamber of Commerce also said that many men were also more powerful because they had a safe home. - That means the woman's in charge of housework. Serves/rules, as the FPÖ also represents. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: We are for the freedom of choice of women!]] It has already been said by my previous speakers today that we must continue to work on many points of women's desire. But it will not only work on the points of women's popular desire as long as women believe they have to solve men's problems. Even the problem "Groër" is to be solved by a women's monastery, as you can read in the newspaper. - That means we're not just going to have to put legal files. I would like to say a few words to colleagues from the FPÖ and the ÖVP, especially the Members: Self-confidence and men living in life have no problem with equal treatment and equal opportunities. If you promote the self-confidence of your fellow Members, we will soon have implemented our proposals here in the House. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e17750	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e17769	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Especially ladies from the SPÖ! It may not fit in with your world picture, but Mrs Petrovic has reported quite correctly. President Brauneder presented to you why this Constitutional provision and a commitment to the actual equality for women has not only been won, but may even be lost under the circumstances, Mrs Minister. This is our opinion, very well and well-founded by Professor Brauneder. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] Please allow me, Mrs Fekter, to have an opinion on this. - Thank you very much. I only say that, in view of the fact that Mrs Fekter does not give women a good service, and as the Members of the SPÖ have problems in combining all that with her world view - and this has just been heard by Mrs Silhavy - that it is more reasonable to consider what is expressed in the request of the Liberals and the Greens than what the coalition expresses. That is why I say to you: We are going to vote for this motion today in the natural vote, which is why we want to vote, among other things, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. It is because if one equips such a state objective with the obligation or, so to speak, with the mandate to the local authorities to promote equality between men and women in order to improve classes! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] Mrs Fekter! It is a difference whether I include a confession in a constitutional provision or an assignment to the local authorities. If you have just looked through the Constitution - perhaps you have to do it once, it would not harm you as Chairman of the Committee on Justice! - then you won't find or find any creed in it. You're confusing something. If there is a state target somewhere, it is only a contract to the local authorities. [[New call of the abg. Dr. Fekter.]] Aren't you my opinion? Then call me a confession in the federal constitution! [[Abg. Arbitrators: That's right Stadler!]] Of course! There is no such confession in it, but there are orders, there are fundamental rights and there are subjectively public rights which the individual can enforce. What the government is proposing today is a legal innovation, but it will be at the expense of women! That is what Mr Brauneder is right about. If you look at this very carefully, you can see that not only does this not mean good service to women but it may even harm them. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: If men say something is at the expense of women, then something is wrong!]] Mrs. Colleague! You have the opportunity to argue it legally better than a woman, if you believe that you have good arguments for your confession in the federal constitution. We say: There must be a mandate to the local authorities. This task is now reflected in the request of the Greens and Liberals. You missed that! That is the problem, and that is why we will vote in favour of this request by the Liberals and the Greens today.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e17837	The next speaker is Mrs Hagenhofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e17856	Mr President. Minister! Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Stadler! The request for a decision on a constitutional provision that you have just referred to and referred to is in the house. I just want to do that right. Mrs Horngacher, in her contribution to the debate, said that something very likely had changed. Mrs. Colleague! I'll give you the right. I think I understood you correctly if you thought that the social policy attitude towards women and women's social policy had changed in principle. I think we're on the same path. If we combine the demands of popular desire, I would suggest that something has changed very well: For today's women can and want to be individuals - that is an expression of desire - individual persons, become individuals and accept their own identity, that is, they do not want to live by certain models or guidelines. Today, we still live - so I see it outside of us - for images that are still from the 19th century. ==References== I don't mean that now, but the ideal picture in many minds is still: Mother and child at home, father at work. And a woman who wants to go to work or have to go to work - even there should be - must have guilt. I do not mean this negative now, because everyone should really have the opportunity to live the way he wants to live. In any case, however, it is important that we give our young women the best possible training. We're all interested in this. And if you ask her - I'm asking a lot of girls about it in the framework of professional advice - then you often get the answer: I would like to have a good job and to be able to reconcile family and profession. If there is economic dynamics and economic growth, then everyone has a chance to work. It is a question of distributing work fairly, and I believe that labour market problems should and should not be carried out on the back of women. A keyword that is very often used is "flexibility". Flexibility has already been addressed several times today. Flexibility is required by workers in all situations of life. And if we want all the members of society to be able to participate in economic life, I do not think it should be seen as an obstacle if certain legal conditions that I am going to address are met. I would rather consider this as a possibility for the economy. I do not see the right to part-time work as an obstacle and a particular difficulty for the economy. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: What are you talking about?]] This is a matter of habit: If every employee has to get used to flexibilization, change and adapt to new situations, then the economy must also show flexibility. - We will make the appropriate requests, and I believe that we should really put this right to part-time work with the right to return to a full-time job. I'm asking for common ground here. I am also particularly concerned that the obligation of retention will be extended to 26 weeks after the return from the Karenz period. For it is not helpful for many to be unable to remain in the employment relationship after the four weeks of protection. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is what we should work on, and we all have to work together if we want everyone to participate in the economic upturn. We will only be satisfied if all women have benefited or can benefit from this claim. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e17896	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Reichhold. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e17915	Mr President. High house! Mr. and Mrs. Minister! The reason why I am still speaking is an intermediate call, which came from the ranks of the ÖVP. To my question, why the ÖVP does not agree with the passus to lay down the equal rights of women in the State objective, I received the answer: Because the SPÖ doesn't do this to the farmers! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I think it is unacceptable to hold this discussion in this way. Please do not play the peasants against the women now, but give the women in the law what they deserve! Give them the priority they need, and also give farmers that importance in the laws they deserve and need to survive!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e17945	The Federal Minister is next to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e17963	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! First of all, a short conclusion: The proposed amendment, which is now so spontaneous, is already in the Constitutional Committee. I do not think it is necessary to reintroduce it, but rather to treat it properly in the Constitutional Committee. - First of all. Secondly, Mrs Madl! I would just like to see the truth. Help break through: After laying on the true-word replay of my personal history, I make it clear: At that time, when I became a state councillor in Upper Austria, the women's resort was offered to me by a request from Mr Achatz's Council of State, but at the same time there was a restless redistribution of the competences within the state government, and I was the first and only woman to be as essential as housing and to move to where the application was made. I don't understand that under women's policy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For women's policy also means being active and active in all areas. And I was able to make a lot of women's policy in these two years as a housing councillor. [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen. I would like to make a few comments on childcare in the direction of the Liberal Forum because it has been referred to so often: I am not an opponent of private institutions, but I would like you to know that you are not opponents of public institutions either, because this message always comes across. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I always notice that. I would like to say to you: We can only come to a comprehensive offer if we really combine all the resources we have to offer. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There is now a project that is very exciting: In a particular region, various institutions of different communities, from the mother-in-laws to the hordes, Neutral outsiders are trying to network in such a way that in this one area we actually come to a comprehensive offer for children from one and a half years to the age in which children no longer need it. I think it will be the next time that everyone will also jump over these obstacles in order to guarantee the corresponding offers. I come again - I have already said this today at my first word report - to the child care check: This is not an alternative if such facilities do not exist. A check that cannot be redeemed because the facilities do not exist or are not being further developed is not the perspective that women need - even the men do not. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I have been working with unemployed women for five years now, though not too long ago. I have tried in these five years to facilitate the return of women. Many of these women were around 40 - already very "old", but they were younger than I am today - and for many of these women a world had recently collapsed. It was mostly women who were always at home and believed that nothing could ever happen to them and could never break in on them. It was women who noticed how suddenly the man got rid of them, women who originally had good qualifications and suddenly had to realize that these qualifications were nothing more valuable. Since then, I know that what Mrs Brinek has said is important and essential: Occupational interruption as short as possible. - However, the following conditions must be met: Childcare facilities, the right to part-time and return to full-time and much more. Women should not be forced into work if they do not want to. But they must also be aware of the scope of a decision for staying home. Young women know this, and young women do not choose one or the other anymore for this reason, but both want it. This is dramatic, and the challenges in this regard are great, especially with regard to our National Action Plan, but we must bear in mind: The continuing rise in unemployment is due to the fact that women are now pressing intensively on the labour market. In view of this, however, we must not say that women should now stay home. Quite the opposite: We must guarantee women as well as men jobs under acceptable and acceptable conditions. Ladies and gentlemen! Women's promotion is another very important point and another very important one. Women's promotion and women's promotion plans should not be compared with family promotion plans. The worst thing that can happen is that businesses under the heading "Female Promotion of Family Promotion" are written down and roles are only cemented and not dissolved. That is exactly what has to be questioned and observed again and again! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In view of this, of course, I wonder when it is time and again said that farms are setting up women-promoting and, as is always the case, family-promoting measures, why there are no corresponding business agreements and not even nails made with heads. I would like to derive continuity from the projective stage in which I now find myself. For it is really important and necessary - and indeed also with regard to the content of the National Action Plan - that those companies which seriously want to do so and which actually want to do women's promotion in the sense of the role resolution are provided with the appropriate infrastructure so that we can come to structures with which adequate support is guaranteed. This will be more important than any financial and tax support. And I have enough contacts with companies that tell me that this requires appropriate physical services, know-how and infrastructure, but not the depreciation of the tax. In this context, essential, important and very encouraging approaches are included in the National Action Plan. Of course, it will be a great challenge to live up to all of this and quickly implement these many points over the next five years. I think it is very important that all the points are women's quotas, because the great challenge of the next few years will be how we women's opportunity... [[Abg. Dr. Gredler: Also in the government!]] In the government too, Mrs Deputies! [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Dr Gredler.]] There is also a need to change, and I will give you a hundred percent right. This perspective gives hope that, as I have already said in the field of genetic engineering today, I am already repeating myself - we have not reached a final point, but have set a new beginning. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e18044	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. There is no final word on the part of the report. We shall proceed to the votes taken separately between the Committee's proposals. First of all, we are voting on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report 1113 as Appendix 1 on ensuring continuous access to up-to-date gender data, taking particular account of income data. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this motion for a resolution, which is accompanied by the Committee's report, for a sign. - The application was accepted by a majority. (E 109.) We shall also vote on the resolution on the distribution of income to be annexed to the Committee's report 1113. I should also like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this resolution give a sign of approval. - This application is decided by a majority. (E 110.) We shall vote on the resolution drawn up in Appendix 3 to the Committee's report, 1113 of the Supplements, on the presentation of an experience report on the effects of the new legal provisions on too little workers. In the event of consent, I may request a sign. - This request has also been accepted by a majority. (E 111.) We shall also vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report 1113 to the Annex 4 on comprehensive equality between women and men in the field of education and the promotion of gender orientation. I should also like to ask for a sign in the case of approval. - This is decided by a majority. (E 112.) We shall also vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report 1113 as Appendix 5 on the further extension of childcare facilities to include the federal initiative until the year 2000. In case of consent, I asked for a sign. - This request was accepted by a majority. (E 113.) In the same way, we shall vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report 1113 of the Supplements as Appendix 6 on the charging of partner incomes for emergency aid. In case of consent, I ask for a sign. - This application is decided by a majority. (E 114.) We shall vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report 1113 as annex 7 on the development of a professional image for day-parents. In case of consent, I asked for a sign. - This request was accepted by a majority. (E 115.) We shall also vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report 1113 to the Annex 8 on the establishment of a comprehensive information for persons in Karenz on support for re-entry into working life. In the event of approval, I may ask for a sign. - This request was accepted by a majority. (E 116.) We shall also vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report 1113 as annex 9 on the further development of statutory pension insurance in the direction of self-employed pension schemes for women. In case of consent, I asked for a sign. - The National Council has decided by a majority. (E 117.) We are now voting on Mrs Haller's motion for a resolution on improving legal protection in the tender procedure. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution, Haller, to give a sign of approval. - This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Mag. Chamberlanders and comrades with regard to the extension of the retention period after the karenz period to 26 weeks. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign on this. - This request remains in the minority and is therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Madl on the practical limitation of secondary incomes in respect of Carenz money. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to give a sign. - This request remains in the minority and is therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1114 of the Supplements. Mr Hlavac and Mr Fekter have tabled an amendment. The Members of Parliament also have power. Mr Kammerlander and Mr Schaffenrath submitted an amendment. I shall first vote on the parts concerned by the amendments and then on the remaining parts of the motion, which have not yet been voted on. Since this draft law is also a Federal Constitutional Act, I first put it in the sense of § 82 para. 2 C. 1 of the Rules of Procedure set out the quota necessary for constitutional decisions. - This is clearly given. Deputies Dr. So, as mentioned above, Hlavac and Dr. Fekter have tabled an amendment which refers to the introduction rate and point 1 of the report. Paragraph 7 3 and point 2 refers. I'm looking for the Ladies and gentlemen, who would like to vote in favour of this motion, Mr Hlavac/Fekter, in order to give an indication of this. - This application is adopted with the necessary two-thirds majority of the constitutional amendments. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the amendment tabled by the honourable Members. Mr Kammerlander, Mr Schaffenrath and Mr Comrades concerning paragraph 1 Art. Paragraph 7 2 first sentence. This request has been put to a vote by 20 Members, so that this request can be met. I will carry out this nameable vote in such a way that I call on the honourable Members in alphabetical order and ask them to answer the question of the oral part of the vote clearly from their seat. Those Members who vote in favour of the amendment tabled by Kammerlander/Schaffenrath, I am seeking to reply with "Yes", those who vote against, I would ask - logically - to reply with "no". Repeating the name of the honourable Members and repeating voting behaviour will provide clarity on voting behaviour. I therefore begin with the name call and ask for all our interest, because we want to carry out the procedure without delay to concentrate.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e18287	The vote will end. We will quickly count and immediately announce the outcome of the vote. I'm interrupting the meeting for a short time.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e18318	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the following vote: There were 173 votes, 121 "No" votes, 52 "Yes" votes. The application is therefore rejected. The names of the Members will be recorded in the Stenographical Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour, as foreseen by the national vote. With "Yes", the Members voted: Apple beck, Aumayr; Barmüller, Blünegger, Böhacker, Brauneder; Dolnschek; Förlinger; Gaugg, Gredler, Grollitsch; Haidlmayr, Haller, Haselsteiner, Chief, Hofmann; Kammerlander, Kier, Koller, Krüger, Kurzmann; Lauter, Langthaler; Madl, Meischberger, Meisinger, Mentil, Motter; Nut trees; Of a fat content, by weight, by weight Partik-Pablé, Peter, Petrovic, Povysil, Prinzhorn, Pumberger; Reichhold, Rosenstingl; Salzl, Schaffenrath, Scheibner, Schmidt, Schöggl, Schreiner, Schweitzer, Stadler, Stoisits; Trattner; Van der Bellen; Wabl, Wenitsch. With 'No', the Members voted: Ablinger, Achs, Amon, Antoni, Auer, Bauer Rosemarie, Bauer Sophie, Binder, Brinek, Brix, Buder, Bures; Cap; Dietachmayr, Donabauer; Eder Kurt, Edler, Ellmauer; Fekter, Feurstein, Fink, Freser, Fuchs, Fuhrmann; Gaal, Gartlehner, Gatterer, Gatterer, Grabner, Gradwelt, Großruck, Guggenberger, Gusenbauer, Hagenhofer, Heindl, Heinzl, Hlavac, Höchtl, Horngacher, Huber, Hums; Jäger, Jarolim; Kaipel, Kampichler, Kaufmann, Paufpüller, Khol, Kiermaier, Kiss, König, Konrad, Koppler, Koppler, Kostelka, Krammer, Herbs, Kröll, Kukacka, Kummer, Kurzbauer; Lacner, leikam, leinner, leashnak, Luke; Maderthaner, Maier Johann, Maitz, Marizzi, Mertel, Mock, Morak, Moser Sonja, Mühlbachler, Müller, Murauer; Neisser, Niederwieser, Nowotny, Nürnberger; Oberhaidinger; Perfuss, Parnigoni, Pittermann, Platter, Posch, Puttinger; Rada, Rasinger, Rauch-Kallat, Reitsmer, Riepl; Sauer, Schieder, Schrefel, Schuster, Schwarzenberger, Schwemmlein, Schwimmer, Seidinger, Sigl, Silhavy, Spindelegger, Stampler, Steibl, Steindl, Stippel, Stummful; Tegischer, Tichy-Schreiter, Drinkl, Tychtl; For the purposes of this Regulation, Wallner, Wicker, Worm, Wormitzer; Zweytick.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e18483	We are now voting on the corresponding text as amended by the Committee's report. It has been requested that the votes should be counted, so I will ask the guides to support me. Mrs Reitsamer is counting the "no" votes - those are the seats - and Mrs. Applebeck is the "yes" vote. [[The authors Applebeck and Reitsmer make the poll.]] President Dr Heinz Fischer: I shall mention the following results of the vote by the authors who have counted: Mrs Reitsamer has counted 50 "no" votes, Mrs Applebeck has counted 127 "yes" votes. - That's a very clear two-thirds majority. The request was accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote. - I'm asking you to take the seats again. We shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. - This is accepted with the required two-thirds majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I should like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who also give their approval at third reading give a sign on this point. - I note that the proposal has also been adopted at third reading with the necessary two-thirds majority. Next, we shall vote on the draft federal law amending the Constitutional Labour Act, including the title and receipt in 1115 of the Supplements, taking into account the correction of the print error made by the rapporteur. Hiezu is a request from Mrs Mag. Mr Kammerlander on a separate vote with regard to paragraph 1. First of all, I will have the part of the law affected by the request for separate vote, and then I will have the rest of the parts that have not yet been voted on. We shall proceed to a separate vote on paragraph 1 of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report, taking into account the correction of the print error. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this part to give a sign. - This is accepted by a majority. That is why we shall now proceed to the vote on the remaining parts of this motion, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I can also ask for a sign here in the case of approval. - This is accepted by a majority. We shall come, after the second reading has ended, immediately to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also agree to the proposal at third reading to give a sign on this point. - The draft was adopted by a majority of the third reading. We are now voting on the draft federal law, which amends the Mother Protection Act and the Parent Care Leave Act, together with the title and receipt in 1116 of the Supplements. Mrs Kammerlander has tabled an additional request. I shall first vote on this supplementary proposal and then on the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. We shall vote on Mrs Kammerlander's supplementary request to insert a new Section 2 para. 1 provided for in Article II. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this request for a sign. - That's the minority. The application is rejected. I shall therefore vote on the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of this sign. - The second reading of the Committee's report was adopted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who also give their agreement at third reading, to give a sign on this point. - Thank you. I note that the proposal was adopted by a majority in third reading. We are now voting on the request of the Committee on Equal Opportunities to take note of its report 1117 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to vote in favour of the report of the Committee on Equal Opportunities to give a sign on this point. - The National Council shall act by a majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Committee on Equal Treatment to take note of its report 1118 of the supplements. Here again, in the case of approval, I may request a sign. - This request was also adopted by a majority. We come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Equal Opportunities to take note of its report 1119 of the supplements. In case of consent, I asked for a sign. - The vote will take place by a majority. Accepted. We come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Equal Opportunities to take note of its report 1120 of the supplements. In case of consent, I asked for a sign. - This request was accepted by a majority. We shall vote on the request of the Committee on Equal Opportunities to take note of its report 1121 of the supplements. In the event of approval, I may ask for a sign. - This decision shall be taken by a majority. Accepted. We come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Equal Opportunities to take note of its report 1122 of the supplements. Here again, in the event of approval, I ask for a sign on this matter. - I note the decision-making by a majority. Accepted. We come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Equal Opportunities to take note of its report 1123 of the supplements. In case of consent, I ask for a sign. - This decision shall also be taken by a majority. Accepted. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Equal Treatment to take note of its report 1124 of the supplements. In case of consent, I asked for a sign. - The vote will be taken by a very large majority. Accepted. We come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Equal Opportunities to take note of its report 1125 of the supplements. In case of consent, I asked for a sign. - The National Council shall act by a majority. Accepted. We come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Equal Opportunities to take note of its report 1126 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to it to give a sign. - consent to this request shall be by a majority. Accepted. We shall vote on the request of the Committee on Equal Opportunities to take note of its report 1127 of the supplements. In case of consent, I'm looking for a sign. - This is accepted by a majority. We are now voting on the request of the Committee on Equal Treatment to take note of its report 1128 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this for a sign. - The decision-making process has been carried out by a majority. Accepted. These are the items on the agenda. 19. Point Report of the Committee on Science and Research on Amendment No 695/A by Mr Ddr. Erwin Niederwieser, Dipl.-Vw. Dr. Dieter Lukesch and Comrades concerning a federal law amending the Studienförderungsgesetz (1145 of the Supplements) 20. Point Report of the Committee on Science and Research on motion 731/A by Mr Ddr. Erwin Niederwieser, Dipl.-Vw. Dr. Dieter Lukesch and comrades concerning a federal law amending the Federal Law on Higher Education (FHSTG) (1146 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e18753	We now come to points 19 and 20 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. - Under one, Minister! [[The Federal Minister, who is sitting on the government bank, smiles.]] These are the reports of the Scientific and Research Committee on Applications 695/A and 731/A. [[Abg. Dr. Khol is handing over Abg. Rosemarie Bauer a bouquet of red roses.]] [[The representatives of the ÖVP are congratulating.]] There has been no oral reporting, on the other hand, on point 19 of Mr Stippel's report in my Croquis as rapporteur. Is that a mistake? - A report will not be desired. [[Abg. Dr. Stippel: Yes!]] This will allow us to go into the debate at once. Mr Krüger spoke. Voluntary speaking time: Six minutes. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e18801	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I do not know the reason why Mr Klubobmann Khol has prompted Mrs Bauer to make the appearance of Mrs. Bauer with such a beautiful red bouquet of flowers. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: You can still congratulate!]] Whatever the reason it may be: I would like to join very cordially in this congratulation. [[Cheerfulness and general applause.]] I don't know if it's a birthday or rather a comfort. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: No! Acknowledging! The recognition of women's desire!]] A bouquet of flowers, handed over to the sign of consolation because you didn't carry out your women's demands in this house. - Be it as it may be. In any case, warm congratulation! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The just completed voting marathon has almost already adopted the character of isometric exercises. I therefore hope that you will still have the necessary freshness to make the following agenda items and debates happen. There are now changes to the debate, amendments to the Studienförderungsgesetz and the University of Applied Sciences Law. In detail and in terms of content, the following speakers of my group will comment on this. In general, it is to be said that the intention of both legislative novels is correct, although we believe they are insufficient. To regulate the funding practice for older students with an increase of the maximum age from 30 to 35 years is, of course, an improvement in the current legal situation and certainly useful. However, a restriction is generally rejected. We know from studies that, especially in the case of older students who use the study funding, the causality of the study funding is given with the success of the study. Students from 35 onwards should not be excluded from this funding because, according to all the trends and studies, it is obvious that the study success of a student who is entitled to a student's funding is the more the student's funding the older he is. It is therefore not to be seen that there is a restriction on the age question. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Let me take this opportunity to discuss the practices of the government parties in the scientific committee coram publico in plenary. I also ask for the polite attention of Mr Fischer, because I believe that the practice that has been practised there should also give rise to his interest and cause him to think in the presidential or in the debate about a change in the Rules of Procedure of the National Council or also about changes in the use of citizens. Mr President, Mr Fischer! First of all, I should like to sum up briefly those events that have led me to this debate on this matter, a debate which I am now making in my capacity as committee chairman until the end of my speech. At the beginning of February 1998, controversial statements by the Minister of Science, Widerhall, were found in the media world. This was an interview in the daily newspaper "Der Standard". These words were generally summarized under the term "spitsels" and there were, indeed, corresponding words in the public discussion. It was about stasi-humanity and the like. [[Abg. Parnigoni: We didn't suspect anything else!]] But the Federal Minister did not want to dissociate himself from it. Although there was a half-hearted removal of the head of the section Höllinger, that was a sort of ordered retreat, a removal from the planned unbearable tipping trends has not taken place to this day. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lukesch.]] It's not that much about the affair itself, Mr. Minister. For this, you have to thank God, publicly, who must refer to you in this matter due medial beatings. I'm talking about the formal. Mr President, Mr Fischer! It is really unbearable for me if the opposition is urgently giving rise to a committee appointment which is necessary because all the universities, delegates and students are irritated but cannot be agreed on. [[Abg. May. Stadler talks to President Dr. Fischer.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: The President can't listen because the Stadler is bothering him!]] A committee must, of course, be convened in this situation. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Finally complain to him!]] Mr Parnigoni! I do not know what you understand about science and the Scientific Committee, but I think it keeps itself in very narrow limits. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is a matter of urgent need. [[Abg. Parnigoni: You have assembled, President Fischer does not listen to you! He can't do that!]] Mr Parnigoni! Even if you speak so loud, your arguments will not be better. You better stay back. I don't think you understand anything about this matter. Why don't you just turn back a little bit? [[Abg. Parnigoni: You can give this prepotency somewhere, but not in the High House!]] Yes, yes! Good! Mr Parnigoni! I don't accept this censorship from you. But if you are already talking about it, I must say that I am honoured, because to learn from your mouth, I can only think of it as an honor, Mr Colleague. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] So far, so good. I am concerned about the formal requirements of the Committee's constituency. It is obvious that use in the House - which was also notified to us by the club - is that such committees can only take place in agreement. This was enforced by the SPÖ in spite of many attempts, including by the Liberals - the liberal science spokesman also wanted a special committee -. All attempts at the opposition to a rapid committee meeting, i.e. at the beginning of February, were simply boycotted. That seems unbearable to me. Mr President, Mr Fischer! I wonder, What minimum rights does a committee chairman have, if not, to set a committee date? - Now you can certainly refer me to the Rules of Procedure in which this stands. We know the use, and it should be observed. But where does the fairness stay? - For purely party-tactic reasons, an attempt was made to get through an affair. It may have been quite skillful politically, for it has not been much left of this affair to this day. So it's been dipped. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties, in particular the SPÖ! You may have acted politically, but democracy has done you a very bad job. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] From this point of view, I should like to say that, if I have the impression that the Committee's date is simply boycotted for political reasons, I would like to say that, if there is an urgent need for a committee meeting in the future, I am going to ignore this supposedly proven tradition of consensual appointment. There is no need for a necessary committee meeting to be convened for two months in the absence of a consensus on an appointment. Mr President, Mr Fischer! You know exactly that, when it is pressed, the opposition, and, of course, the freedom of opposition, is at any time ready, if necessary, to make very short-term committee appointments, and to make decisions there, e.g. if the Constitutional Court has given the legislator an order for a legislative repair up to a certain date. That's not a question at all! But in the event that this is a one-way road, if, on the one hand, the chance of the opposition is presupposed, on the other hand, it is boycotted for purely political reasons, only in order not to suspend, for example, the Minister of Science in addition to the media blockfire or that of the opposition, although the meeting would have been necessary for him to do so, because he would have been given the opportunity to dissociate himself in the Committee on Science, I say that I will no longer adhere to this use if it is abused. You can of course say that the Presidency is still a majority decision of Parliament. I would also like to have this explanation called for, because I hope and believe that the people will understand that, as committee chairman, it is not possible to degradate themselves to the Hampelmann of the Coalition.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e18949	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Niederwieser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e18965	Mr President. Federal Minister! I would like to make two comments on the comments made by my previous speaker, Mr Krüger. On the one hand, you have wrongly corrected Mr Parnigoni. He has only drawn attention to something. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Did you hear what he said?]] Yeah, yeah. [[Abg. Scheibner: He speaks so indistinctly!]] He drew attention to the fact that while you asked the President to listen to him, your executive clubman has long occupied the president with his concerns. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Potz Blitz! Can he do that?- Oh, my God!]] So important are your clubman, obviously, the Members of his own group! Mr Stadler! I think this is a desauvulation of every Member who asks for the President's attention while you go up to him at the same time. - They always demand everything for themselves. They demand everything for themselves and are not at all willing to respect democratic rules. That's your attitude. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Read the protocol!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: I'm totally crushed!]] It's what you are. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Check it out! Then what are you talking about?- Oh, my God!]] Oh, really! You're not that important again. You're not the center of this house. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's it! Finally, come to the point!]] Secondly, Mr Krüger has agreed that, as far as the date is concerned,... [[Abg. May. Stadler: Yes, now he comes to the point!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: But he has no idea of it!]] Perhaps, if you start any attacks already, you have the kindness, once you also have the answer to listen. Or do you know her? [[Abg. May. Stadler: Finally get to the point!]] Do you know her? [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Secondly, Mr Krüger said that we were not prepared to set a committee date, and he threatened to make his committee chairman available. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's not the matter!]] Mr Krüger! If there are really urgent problems, you might call me or my colleague, Luke, the next time. At this committee meeting, you actually agreed for the first time on how many times you have tried to do so. So that can't be the reason! We are not afraid of any of these issues, and of course we would not have bothered this debate in committee. To the two laws that are in place here: The development of the University of Applied Sciences Law is extremely positive. Today's change offers one very large group - about 60 000 HTL engineers - the possibility of re-qualification. However, there are also other groups in this area. The new thing about this solution is that we are trying to offer it essentially in the form of distance learning. That is to say, it is explicitly stated in the law that this training must be completed in the field of distance studies. - Mr. Stadler! Why don't you sit in your seat? Or is that so difficult for you? [[Abg. May. Stadler: I have to go out! Can I?]] [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: That's childish!]] Well, if you have to! [[Abg. Dr. Gredler: But just a short time!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Yes or no?]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: It would be a failure if you stayed out immediately!]] These courses for HTL engineers are offered in distance studies. Sometimes it comes up with criticism. However, I believe that we have found a future solution. We can still discuss the subject areas of higher education as such and further improvements within the framework of the University of Applied Sciences report. It will certainly be important that we do not destroy this very good, decentralised development now by a different development that goes beyond national centralism. On the Studienförderungsgesetz in view of the late hour only two sentences: This innovation, compared with the previous solution, provides the essential advantage that at the age limit of 35 we take into account not only work but also the years of child rearing in relation to two. We believe that this will benefit an important group. The Ministry has very carefully analysed this at our request. Thank you very much! Mrs Wurm will present the data in this regard. Even at a later hour and after a strenuous day, I can say: Hiemit has succeeded in two good laws that bring the universities back to life. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e19213	Mrs Gredler. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e19232	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On the funding of studies: It is interesting that up to 1996 there was the possibility of obtaining study assistance until the age of 40. Then the radical cut was carried out: It has been decided to cut the border to 30 years. However, in the summer of 1996, it was already assumed that this cut was perhaps too radical. Therefore, for the 1997/98 study year, i.e. only for a very short period of time, the age limit has been allowed to increase again to 35 years. Now you are back at a maximum of 35 years, but the scheme is confused, complicated and difficult to administer, instead of saying quite clearly: All have the opportunity to obtain this funding up to 35. That would be much easier! For now one has to prove that one somehow gets something accounted for per child, and so on and so on. It may also affect persons who are not a child but who are caring for persons of a different age. What about them? - Of course they fall out of this scheme! I think it would be much more honest to say: It sets a certain age as a limit, and we want to accept that. They are for 35 under very, very special, difficult conditions. I think this is wrong access because I believe that lifelong learning is very important at a time when the life of knowledge is very short. At a time when one needs to adapt continuously, one should really promote those who want to enter a study at a later time. But you do not, and I therefore allow myself to make an amendment. This application is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] We've got that 40. That's why you chose a year of life because you yourself said in the study that has been prepared: "The study clearly shows that the study aid in older age groups achieves a particularly strong promotion effect with a view to a successful study, higher success rates and faster study degrees." - That's a foundation. We are also of the opinion that this age limit would include more women and not exclude them. In addition, it would be easier to administer it because it would not be necessary to provide continuous evidence of times when children were cared for or not cared for. Otherwise, an interruption could occur, because a child with an infectant had to enter the hospital and perhaps would be there for two weeks. Then this might be estimated to be a minus. All this is far too complicated. It is easier to set, together with those people who want there to be an age limit, a 40-year limit. This is what we are going to do, because we in the committee have found that we are not going through this House with the original plan to abolish the age limits at all. We hope that the honourable Members of the other political groups will see our arguments and I would be pleased if we were to come to a reasonable and really simple solution, because it is pointless to introduce administrative obstacles. However, I would like to express my thanks for the fact that the foundations of the funding are now available via the Internet. I would like to thank the Federal Minister for this. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: The Liberal Forum is not on the Internet!]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I'll invite you into my office and we'll be able to surf around for lust and mood and find everything possible. However, if you think that I should not give a compliment to Mr Bundesminister, this is your problem, Mr Lukesch. Finally, I would like to say: If we discuss the quality and quality assurance of studies and then come up with ideas from the Federal Minister who are so comprehensible that they provoke a call within universities, and if you have to wait two months for the problems to be discussed, I think this is a non-democratic procedure. As we do not have regular dates, I believe that a much earlier date should be made in the event of such a call within universities. In the case of the partners of the government groups, there should be the sensitivity to say: Okay, we'll discuss this as soon as possible in the House. But what happened? - For two months we had to wait until an appointment arrived! And no one can agree that the Federal Minister had no time or that the two gentlemen of the government parties had no date. I have experienced for myself that one has gone over my appointments more than once. I've been used to putting myself in. However, you have to get used to the fact that once the opposition demands to discuss things that are really dangerous, you have to respect this desire as well.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e19291	Mrs Gredler's request is properly supported and is under negotiation. The next speaker was Mr. Dr. Lukesch. It is desired to set the clock to 4 minutes. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e19313	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Gredler! Of course, you can demand more and more - which costs more and more money - that's clear! In particular, if one does not have a budgetary responsibility to bear, this is, of course, close. We have tried under the Studienförderungsgesetz to address the circumstances of the life of the latter. And I am pleased that it has been particularly successful - also in the context of today's debate on equality, equal treatment and the promotion of women - to count child rearing times, which will increase the age limit for late-careers, for mothers as well as for workers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gredler: The border was once at 40 years!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schaffenrath.]] Secondly, The small novelle of the University of Applied Sciences Law has already been presented in terms of content with a higher-qualification motive for our engineers. It has been a special concern for me to finally introduce long-distance studies. On the one hand, this is in line with the modern methods of "distant learning", and on the other hand, it also helps the regional equity for which ÖVP has always stood, better to break through than to concentrate on individual settlements and in capital cities. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Thirdly, on the point raised by Mr Krüger and also Mr Gredler: I would have been quite right if an earlier date had come after the announcement of certain intentions or misunderstandable intentions of the Minister in connection with the observation of universities and their achievements. But I didn't block in any way. However, I have a certain understanding for the Federal Minister that, in view of his dual function as Minister of Transport and Science, he is not able to discuss very many free dates. Mr Krüger! I am surprised - we have already mentioned it in committee - that is, the so-called top-level cowardry. I told you at the time that the liberals opposed me to courses and exams and asked the Minister in 1994 whether I was actually teaching objectively or indoctrinating my students in political terms. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Is this apprehension?]] That's exactly a tickle thing! A second request from the liberals only reached us a few weeks ago. It was again about a Innsbruck professor, who instead of announced 28 hours of the week only held 16 hours. - This is still the double number of hours a professor normally has taught or at least as a teaching obligation. - You have recently sent a question to the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs against Professor Ewald Breunlich, the chairman of the higher education union, in which you, by your questions, indirectly accuse him of violating his duties that he does not hold his lectures, does not appear for examinations, and so on. Who are your convicts? Who's your tip? - I'll ask you that! And I'd be really happy if you could give me an answer!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e19379	Next speaker: Mrs Dr Petrovic. - She didn't. Next speaker: Mrs Wurm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e19400	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I am pleased that we are once again discussing the funding of studies in the form of an amendment. I have always been dedicated to the working students, and especially to the age group of 30 to 35 years old students. On the occasion of the debate in this regard, which was held mainly in the Scientific Committee, a study was, as it were, prepared as a by-product, examining the various circumstances of the 30- to 35-year-old study aid beneficiaries. I would like to comment briefly on what Mr Niederwieser has already announced. An important result of this study is to me that it is shown that the number of students over 30 years of age is still very low with about 2% of all beginners. Secondly, The number of students from 30 to 35 years of age is between 12 and 23 percent, thus significantly less than 25 to 26 percent of those under 30 years of age who receive the study aid. In absolute terms, this is always less than 100 students. In the last winter semester, for example, it was only 31. Even though only one fifth of the 30- to 35-year-olds reached the university's second education path, this is still ten times as much as it is for the under 30-year-olds. Of those who have taken the second course of education - and this seems to me to be worth mentioning - more than 70 percent regularly receive a study grant, i.e. three times as much as the average of students. This means that the study allowance for over 30 years of age, which we are now talking about, is almost beneficial to all students with professional maturity examination. In my view, the fourth and most important recognition is that the 30-35-year-olds who receive the study grant can fully hold with the younger ones in terms of duration of study and have a lower drop-out rate. On the other hand, the study duration of those who do not receive a scholarship is much higher with 15 instead of 12 semesters, and their drop-out rate is by far the highest. However, this is very understandable and clear, considering that in this group more than 60 percent are self-holders, while in the number of students under 30, only 10 percent are fully committed to their livelihood. It also seems important to me to analyze the social shifts of students of this age. - The proportion of workers' children is above average, and Bruno Kreisky, Hertha Firnberg and the SPÖ wanted it at the end of the 1960s. In order not to be too class-warring and not to vote unfavourably with the coalition partner, I do not wish to mention that the proportion of children whose parents are small-scale or farmers - i.e. professional groups which do not necessarily oppose the EIA - is above average in the 30 to 35 years. I therefore believe that it is a good compromise that the study aid should last until 35 years. Year of life can be applied for, meaning that one can be applied until 39. ==References====External links== I'm sure you'll be able to study a life-year. The need to demonstrate a certain period of professional activity is certainly not the most complicated for a working student or a working student. - I can tell you that because I was affected by it myself!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e19446	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e19465	Mr. Minister! Mr President. Dear audience interested in science questions! High house! I would like to deal with 1146 of the Supplements, amendment of the University of Applied Sciences Law. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The roots of this Repair Act date back to the time before EU accession. At the time, HTL engineers have already assembled that their training is not fully recognised throughout the EU. A reform of this course has already been called for. Nothing happened back then. The Higher Technical Training Institutions have not been reformed. The opportunity for a general reform with a large number of vocational education and training institutions to be integrated into existing training facilities has not been implemented. Proposals already in place and well thought out at the time have not been taken up. - Now you have to fix a law once again in order to comply with the legitimate wishes of a very large group. I too am in favour of giving HTL engineers the opportunity to have a higher level of qualification as quickly as possible. For I see that it is not to be made too difficult for HTL engineers, who are mostly in the profession, so in practice, to achieve this goal. But must this objective be achieved by a distance course? [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] We do not want one thing, as I believe, together: a reduction or watering of the currently very high level of high-school courses. And that is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This will also make it possible to study in the form of a study with partial presence or any other combination as desired by the clientele. We think it is completely wrong to wish to conduct these courses exclusively as distance courses. A second essential point, which we believe needs to be changed: The extension of the recognition of these courses should not only require a new application and the presentation of an evaluation report, but we would like it to be explicitly contained in the law that this evaluation report should be reviewed positively by the High School Council. Right now, my dear friends. Ladies and gentlemen, it is only the proposal that is required. I cordially invite all of you to accept this request. Because that might save us another repair. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e19551	The application which has just been submitted is properly filed, also supported accordingly and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Gäßner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e19572	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! About the advantages of the novelle to the University of Applied Sciences Law or - as my previous speaker said - about its repair has already been sufficiently noted. Let me say just three points at this advanced hour. I believe that it will be necessary in this distance study to speedily force the development of teaching materials, involving modern communication technologies, in order to enable the earliest possible start of these high-school courses. Secondly, It is quite clear that the question of who carries the development costs is to be resolved. These costs must in no way be paid to the students. This would be the same as the introduction of an indirect study fee, and precisely these distance courses for professionals at vocational colleges should not be used for the introduction of study fees. Thirdly, In my opinion, the novelle has a door opener's function towards more distance learning opportunities, as it creates access for professionals for higher professional qualifications. In this context, it is appropriate to consider setting up distance studies in the Federal Law on economic loyalty professions in the framework of the economic colleges, which, for example, allow graduates of a HAK or a HBLA to carry out the examination as an independent accountant. In the sense of the permeability of the University of Applied Sciences Law, this possibility would also be open to those who have many years of relevant professional practice. All in all, ladies and gentlemen, the distance learning of a large group of professionals opens up the possibility of entering the track of lifelong learning and taking this opportunity. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e19610	Mr Grollitsch also spoke. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e19628	Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Short description of the Study Aid Act: Federal Minister! From the point of view of the liberals, the Study Aid Act 1992 is not the final conclusion of wisdom. For it only prevents the development of imagination for credit or pre-financing models and sponsor models, such as for an educational check system, as the liberals suggest. In any event, the Study Aid Act brought at least a basic funding for those in need in 1992 up to the age of 40. In the course of the so-called structural adjustment of the savings measures in 1996, this age limit was reduced to 30 years. A few weeks later, however, it was recognized that the novelle is not only unadministrable, but that it also brings some hardships. A year later, the novelle of the novelle was novelled, and it was avoided to a 35-year rule. This amendment should now also be renewed by reintroducing the 30-year rule and allowing for enlargement to 35 years under certain conditions. In July 1997, a resolution enforced the preparation of a study that was, in fact, the basis for all those laws and novels that existed in 1996 and 1997. This study examines and describes exactly the situation of the 30- to 35-year-olds. The study was completed in committee against our wish, because we would have liked to discuss the very interesting data here. Mr Niederweiser is right if he thinks that the request is now an opportunity to do so. - I call a few key data from this very informative and successful study: 1.7% of the initial students fell into this age group, 31 persons among the beginners of the 1996/97 study year were entitled to a study grant. It is learned from this study that this group of students aged 30 to 35 comes primarily to the university via the second course of education, which is not surprising. It is also known - and this is perhaps a bit more surprising - that the late beginners come mainly from parents' homes who are accountable to the workers', farmers' and small-scale industries, and that the study aid is particularly effective in this group, as it contributes to a reduction in the study period of three semesters, while the younger students can only receive one semester of the study grant. The Committee's report on this request makes a very correct reference to these results in the key data. However, Mr Federal Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that: You have not consistently followed the evaluation of these data in your application. How else could it be that at the age of 35 a arbitrary barrier is introduced which prevents a gesture from being put in the direction of the second course of education, training and re-schooling, as it is always called for? This leads us to make a request which is primarily aimed at this age limit of 35 years. This application is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] In fact, what Mrs Gredler has asked for is just a little further. We believe that this is a gesture towards lifelong learning, especially as a very marginal amount of people who could benefit from it can be expected. I would ask you to either agree to this request or, at any rate, to refer the considerations back to committee. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e19702	Mrs Dr. Brinek is also speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e19718	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Let me just make a few points: For Dr. Grollitsch, his predecessor Dr. Gredler and others, any age limitation, any limitation, whether at 30, 35 or 40 years, is a political setting. Yeah, that's it. But it is well-founded, as I mean, because it was possible to develop ideas, such as, for example, there should be no age limit for scholarship recipients. [[Congratulations to Dr Gredler and Schaffenrath.]] In this connection, I would like to ask ÖH representatives - with Mr Amon - how much pleasure he/she would have with the younger students in favour of older students, senior students, to a part of the scholarship if it were to be redistributed. [[Abg. Dr. Gredler: Cheap Polemik!]] In my opinion, there is an outstanding example of a senior student who is over 40 years old at the Institute of Journalism in Vienna, who has paid back about 150 000 S to the Institute. He was greatly honored and overwhelmed with much recognition because he said that he had already had the opportunity by the public hand to study, to enjoy an education, and now he had been able to do so for a second time. He thanked for that. - That's a convincing gesture! If you want to act in the sense of more justice, you have to stay at 35 years ’ limit. All that goes toward imagination is, I think, for the next millennium. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: That's not long either! Only two years!]] I would like to make a small comment on the University of Applied Sciences Law, because some in this House - I say once - start to fear and paint things on the wall, which do not create a very positive mood. Two things were achieved: First: A target group-specific offer is made that we were guilty of. Secondly, For the first time, we will be able to set a reform impulse in didactic development. - The last one was set after the "Sputnik shock" in the learning programmes developed in written form. The question of long distance or distance learning, i.e. the virtual hearing room or classroom, has been postponed for a long time. This was simply not necessary, you could hardly imagine anything else than really being in the place where you were taught and actually doing seminary experience. In my opinion, the selected professional group of HTL engineers can be expected to experience these new experiences, as well as the teachers there. It is to be expected to examine and develop the existing materials step by step for distance learning, based on existing experiences such as the remote University of Hagen and the long-distance study centre Linz, in order to create a regional balance and to provide all, whether they come from a remote mountain valley or from the big city, with equal access to knowledge. We should take advantage of this opportunity to further develop didactics and lifelong learning and not be afraid. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e19769	The amendment previously read by Mr Grollitsch has been properly tabled and supported accordingly. No one is reporting on this. That concludes the debate. We are entering the voting procedure. I ask the honourable Members to take the place for this purpose. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we come to the vote on the draft federal law amending the Studienförderungsgesetz, together with the title and receipt in 1145 of the Supplements. To this end, Members Dr Gredler and Comrades have tabled an amendment. Mr Grollitsch and Mr Comrades have also tabled an amendment. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the amendments and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Dr. Grollitsch and Comrades have tabled an amendment concerning the Z1, which has the content of the deletion of § 6 Z 4. In case of your consent, I would like an appropriate sign. - This is the minority. Rejected. Deputies Dr. Gredler and comrades have also tabled an amendment to Z 1 § 6 Z 4. In case of your consent, I would like an appropriate sign. - This is the minority. Rejected. I shall therefore vote on this part of the draft law now in the version of the Committee's report. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. - This is the majority. Accepted. Mr Grollitsch and Mr Comrades requested the deletion of Z 2. In the event of your consent to this request by Mr Grollitsch, I would like to ask for an appropriate sign. - This is the minority. Rejected. I shall immediately vote on Z 2 of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. In case of your consent, I would like an appropriate sign. - This is the majority now. Accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. In case of your consent, I would like an appropriate sign. - This is the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. If you would like to give your third reading to the draft law, I would also like to ask for a sign of approval. - This, too, is the majority. The draft law was therefore adopted at third reading. We now proceed to the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the German law on higher education courses, including the title and receipt in 1146 of the supplements. For this purpose, MEPs have received Dipl.-Ing. Mr Schöggl and Mr comrades submitted an amendment or amendment. First of all, I will vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary or amending proposal, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl and comrades have an amendment concerning Z 2 § 3 para. 2 Z 2. In case of your consent, I would like an appropriate sign. - This is the minority. Rejected. I shall now vote on this part of the draft law as it stands in the Committee's report. In case of your consent, I would like an appropriate sign. - This is the majority. Accepted. Deputies Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl and comrades have submitted an additional request for the insertion of a new Z 6a. In case of your consent, I would like an appropriate sign. - This is done by the minority. The request is therefore rejected. Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. In case of your consent, I would like an appropriate sign. - This is the majority. Accepted. We shall come to the third reading. If you wish to agree to the draft law at third reading, I would also ask for a similar sign. - This is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. 21. Point First reading of motion 698/A by Dr Harald Ofner and Comrades concerning a federal law amending the Rules of Procedure 1975 and the Rules of Procedure to improve the legal status of victims
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e19920	We're going to the 21st. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. I call the applicant, Mr Dr. Ofner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e19941	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I should like to express a personal wish: For decades, it was a natural, fair exercise in the National Council that members of the Federal Government have always made a targeted statement in such a way that they believe that at least one Member of the opposition has come to speak. Today, the impression was made that the opposite was done in a very specific way: Some ministers and state secretaries seem to be concerned about speaking as the last and not having a member of the opposition or a representative of the government parties speak for himself. In my opinion, we should take up the old, good and fair tradition again, that a member of the government should not have the last word in the House. Following the speech of a member of the government, Members of Parliament, especially at least one member of the opposition, are still to follow. This is a request from a Member who has been in this House for almost two decades Service is available and things are observed. [[Congratulations on the Freeman, the Liberal Forum and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The defendant or defendant is generally not particularly good in court. You can say it's not supposed to be. But in most cases the victims also have nothing to laugh at. They have little rights in the field of criminal justice. The purpose of this proposal is to grant them rights. In telegram style, I'm allowed to report two events from my lawyer's practice, from which one can derive what is missing and what should happen. Case number one: A wife, over 60 years of age, is regularly abused by her older husband, a heavy alcoholic. One day she is beaten so green and blue that she has to go to the hospital, but only for outpatient treatment. The hospital will refund an infringement notice to the authority. However, the criminal proceedings are terminated by the prosecutor's office on the grounds that there is no criminality of the act. Missing criminality of the act! That is, the victim, an older lady, as I said, is beaten green and blue, the procedure is stopped because of lack of criminality of action! The woman told me she was crying when she got this message. So little is worth the physical integrity of a lady, a woman, a wife! She's being beaten, the procedure is closed! She is a victim, she would have the opportunity - and that not for long - to declare with a subsidiarity claim that she maintained the prosecution. It did not want to do so and said that it was a difference whether this was done by the prosecutor's authority or whether it was exposed and, if it did not come to the conviction of the person concerned, it would have to be liable for any cost. Problem circle number two, which I noticed in this connection: A man is threatened by another man with the gun from a vain occasion - a fight for a snow heap on the street. This one's putting the gun on him. The situation is threatening, but the threatened person has a cell phone in his pocket and calls the Gendarmerie. The Gendarmerie is coming. It turns out that the one who threatened in civilians was also a gender. Now nothing has happened to the person concerned. The gendarm in civilians didn't shoot. The situation was threatening, but there was no injured or even dead. But the man, since on both sides there were gendarmerie officials, considered it better to entrust a lawyer with the case. The lawyer has tried to make him appear as a private party. The judge was even so tolerant to let that perhaps be counter-empty. Because, in fact, the man did not suffer any harm. He wouldn't have been entitled to join him at all. But his costs can't be replaced. This makes us the next problem: It is only the one who has had the opportunity to join a criminal procedure as a private party, which has suffered a damage to be measured in Schilling; that is, only the one - largely modo - to which a real material, financial damage has been incurred. For as an accused person or even as a lawyer of the accused, you can still ask yourself in the trial: How high did you say your damage was? - The injured one says: 6 000 p. The accused gets into the bag, gives him 6 000 s, after which the injured must already say goodbye. In any case, he can still sit back as a listener, but his role in criminal proceedings has ended. Problem circle number two: If he is accepted as a private party in criminal proceedings, he has no opportunity to make applications. If he wants any evidence to be taken, he can only whisper to the prosecutor what he wants and ask him to take up these things. But this happens relatively rarely! He has no way of being able to accommodate his concerns, except in the final statement, in the direction of acknowledgment of the amounts of money he believes he has to receive. So the possibility of a plea-maker targeting more than his claims, for example on the debt complex as a whole, possibly also on the level of punishment, he does not have. If it does not go as the injured person considers it should be, he has no option of taking an appeal, of trying to obtain, in the second instance, a different decision or a withdrawal of the decision of the first instance. And there's no procedural aid. In other words, the accused person equipped with a procedural agent is opposed to a private party not equipped with a procedural agent. So the defendant's defender pays father's state from means of taxation. But in such a complicated case, the victim in the private party's disguise has no way of getting a costly trial at all advance or paid. The aim of the Liberals' request is that every victim, not just a victim who has a material right to be measured in Schilling, should be able to follow the procedure, that the private party should have a right of application in the proceedings, that there should be an appeal and that there should be something very important: that the judge should be stopped to find a, at least, global right of appeal, that, even if an admissibility arises, the claim for compensation must nevertheless be borne. It should therefore no longer be the case that a criminal trial is going on for years and, after its end, with or without condemnation, the judge concludes that the private party is referred to civil law with his claims. Then it can begin to complain again, at a time when everything is already very difficult to enforce. That is, the victims are, in a sense, the stepchildren of Austrian criminal justice. It's not supposed to be that way anymore. The aim of this non-participative proposal is to improve a number of things in this sector. I hear some speakers say that they do not want all of this. There should be no bettering of the victims wherever it comes to it, namely in criminal proceedings themselves. All people want to know about their rights. - But we'll be done soon with the reconnaissance alone. You just need to say: You have no rights! In this way, everyone has been fully informed of the truth. But that's not enough for us.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e20015	Mr Dr. Jarolim has also been reported on the floor. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e20031	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to comment shortly on this request. I would like to point out, first of all, that I think that information itself is not negative and that it is one of the measures necessary in the context of the protection of victims. That is, I think, undisputed. There is no question that we too are in favour of the protection of victims. There are also several applications, most recently in sexual criminal law, childhood. It is quite obvious that there are many measures that can be implemented to improve the situation of the victim. On this occasion, I would like to mention that there is now a first draft of the Ministry of Justice on the preliminary procedure, which also deals intensively with the issue of the protection of victims and the improvement of their position. In my opinion, within the next half year we will certainly be able to talk about it intensively. Mr. Ofner! In your request, I am missing the way in which we deal with situations that are known to the public, but which we have not yet dealt with. We all know that there are a number of possibilities for hearing in criminal proceedings, which are extremely unpleasant for the victim and which are rather a runaway. They actually make the victim a victim in criminal proceedings for the second time. I think it is necessary for us to deal with how to improve this situation. I am thinking, for example, of the possibility of a counter-dictive, gentle agreement. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: One doesn't exclude the other!]] I am not making this a counter-argument either, but I am just saying that this would be one of the reasons for more comprehensive regulation of the area. In my opinion, your proposals have a great deal of discussion, but also a lot of things to reject. In addition, there are a large number of things in this area that are simple and easy to discuss. I admit that, in the context of the ongoing discussion, the needs are constantly changing. On this occasion I would like to warn - you have not mentioned it today, but it has been used in the discussion as something populist outside - on the one hand to mix the suspicion of innocence with regard to the perpetrator, and on the other hand the absolute need to put the victims better. In my opinion, this is simply a matter of fact. Until recently, it was still common to put these two positions together or against each other. This is in itself not legitimate, since it is completely different regulatory groups. In short, I would like to say that there are certainly some points that we can follow. We certainly see opportunities to talk about it. There are a number of points that are worthy of discussion, but I do not think that they will come to a conclusion in the form that you have in place. I am thinking, for example, of providing basic procedural assistance, regardless of the income situation. - That's something I can't win anything. If there is a possibility that the victim will be reimbursed in the event of a conviction by the accused, if it was actually the perpetrator who will be reimbursed for the costs of the proceedings, these costs will be included. They are long-lasting, and that is why this phase is about making or not making an advance. One should make this, I think, dependent on the income situation. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: I said that!]] However, it is not in this way in the request, Mr President. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's what it meant!]] If you mean it, I don't have a problem with it. [[Abg. May. Stadler: But it has been referred!]] Dear colleague! You have made a request. This is the case, you didn't change it. I can only say that. Mr President, I should like to thank Summary: It is a basis for discussion. There is wide scope for discussion on the basis of this pre-procedure paper. We will all try together to achieve a significant improvement in victims' rights. You have our help anyway. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e20103	Mrs Fekter has also spoken. Voluntary speaking time: 2 minutes. [[Abg. Wabl: Two minutes is not enough!]] - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e20130	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In view of the already relatively late hour, I would just like to say that I welcome efforts to improve the legal status of victims. It is known that this issue is a priority of our judicial policy. Mr. Ofner! On your specific proposals: In particular, I can only welcome an improved position of private individuals in the situation of subsidiarity and the standardisation of procedural assistance for victims, in whatever form, in any case. It is a pleasure that there is already a draft discussion on the reform of criminal proceedings. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Mrs. Colleague, just one word! She's always here!]] This has been addressed in a chapter in particular in order to improve the legal status of private prosecutors, private parties and subsidiarity attorneys. I think we're... [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: What do you have in your hand?]] The new draft discussion of the justice sector will be presented to the press today, and I would like to inform you exactly that, Mr Ofner. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Can I have that too? Then maybe we could talk better! This is the new style of government!]] He also went to the opposition parties from the judicial body. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: The press maybe!]] He will only be presented to the press this morning. Then we will be able to discuss him intensively.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e20215	The next speech comes from Mr Mag. Barmüller. Rest of the time of your club: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e20231	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! These five minutes of remaining speaking time do not need to be exploited. Ladies and gentlemen! As far as this request is concerned, it must be made clear that, as has been so often, discussions have taken place, particularly between EIAP and FPÖ. We are not concerned with providing victim protection at the expense of the presumption of innocence. This will not be supported by the liberals. The present application does not require this directly either. It is only a tension relationship that exists anyway, because with that body in the request that any victim of a criminal offence may join the criminal proceedings and thereby become a private party, it is not said that the person who is accused in the specific proceedings is also a perpetrator or a perpetrator. This will therefore be taken into account. But it is not only about improving the victims of those crimes where the perpetrators stand firm, but also about helping those victims who have suffered damage without ever finding or even punishing the perpetrator or the perpetrator. There is also a great deal of difficulty in this area and, in particular, there will be a need to improve after-care, for example by psychologists, when it comes to victims of violent crime. We also take account of the fact that criminal proceedings and related civil claims will also be taken into account, as there is the possibility that civil claims will be enforced in the shadow of a criminal procedure, because this is more favourable than in civil law proceedings. Ladies and gentlemen! This proposal, which will now be discussed, together with what is now being prepared under the criminal procedure, will also be a serious basis for consultation for the Liberals. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e20267	There is another speech by Mr Krüger. Rest of the time of your club: 7 minutes. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e20307	Mr President. High house! It is truly remarkable that all colleagues are talking about an interesting basis for discussion and that they can, in any case, identify themselves with the intention of this request. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! This request has been made since March 1996. It celebrated the two-year anniversary before it was discussed in committee and was now put to the vote. I don't understand... [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: This is a vote at first reading!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: He doesn't know the act!]] Mr Khol! It's much worse! If a request takes two years to get on the agenda of the House, the parliamentary shame is actually much greater than if it had been discussed in committee for two years or had been voted on at all. It's a lot worse. You do not need to boast, therefore, Mr President. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's called "scraping the curve"!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Rhetorical skills!]] Once in Social Democracy, there was the term "vision". However, he was treated differently depending on the leadership of social democracy. You know, there was the discussion about the vision of the prisonless society of Broda. I do not hide that Justice Minister Broda has launched a reform policy, which in part had its very right. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Just a small part!]] In the field of criminal law with the vision of prisonless society at least not! That's not a question at all! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Thank God!]] However, the reverse interpretation, which at the time was subordinated to the then Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany Vranitzky or was also rendered truthful, namely that someone who has visions needed a doctor, was called pouring the child out with the bath. - For I believe that politics cannot come out completely without visions, because someone who has no visions can make no changes in the medium and long term either. [[Abg. May. Stadler: He needs a doctor too!]] But above all, the visions must be borne by reality, and it must also help the reality to break through. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: the final sentence!]] Whenever visions are spoken of, it should finally be about those - it is tragic that it is still a vision - of improved victim protection. I always hear that the focus in the judicial policy is victim protection. But in reality nothing happens! It's nothing! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: (a document holding high) Yes, but!]] An application is two years ago. Finally, he comes on the agenda of the House, and then Mrs Fekter wakes up proudly with a paper in a blue cover and says: [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You must like that!]] That is the basis for discussion! We are presenting this morning morning. You have the necessary legalism through the ministry, but nothing happens anyway. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: I'm not! The Minister of Justice!]] That's the fact! Nothing happens! At the centre of the interest of criminal justice and justice is and was the perpetrator, that has not changed until today. In the meantime, in the People's Party, it spoke that this is not the yellow of the egg either. You should do something for the victims now. In reality, however, nothing happens. This paper contains a serious proposal. This was, as I believe, decided on all sides by Mr Ofner, from whom this motion was first and foremost. But it is not enough, Mr Jarolim, if you say that this is a basis for discussion. You have all the possibilities to apply for this basis of discussion with your legal authority, which is available to you. Not only can it remain empty words, but the words have to be implemented in a questionable way. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: How much time do you have yet to speak?]] Mrs Fekter! What kind of call was that? [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: How much speaking time you have left!]] - Dear colleague Fekter! I have also endured your speeches and have to endure! I think you should have the fairness to take note of the final performances of my speech. I say again: This stressed term "sacrifice protection" is a soap bubble - otherwise nothing at all! Without implementation, this will be of no use at all! That doesn't make sense and doesn't help any victim! For it has not yet passed to the victims that there is this vision. If only a blue paper is waved here - although the color is certainly not poorly chosen - then it will be of no use if it lacks implementation. It is not enough if only any statements of intent are published in the press!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e20515	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. Rest of the time of her club: 1 minute. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e20533	Mr President. To speak with the words of Mr Krüger: Because reality has to be helped to break through, I have to tell you: This application is published in the Official Journal of the European Communities. Feber 1998 and not two years old, as he said! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Krüger obviously does not know the act!]] Nevertheless, Mr Vanner's proposal contains reasonable approaches to private participation, to the state of subsidiarity, but also to procedural assistance for victims. I think he - and Mr Jarolim - is a valuable basis for a debate which will begin now, just like the paper already sent to me, in contrast to him, on the pre-procedure reform. I would just like to say a sentence that, in the course of the discussion on the law on protection against violence in the family, there was a lot of talk about victim protection, and there are still unfinished promises in this regard. I hope that, in connection with Harald Ofner's request, but also with the debate on the division that will come, the promises will be taken into account. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e20571	No one has been reported in the word anymore. That concludes the debate. I agree with Amendment No 698/A to the Committee on Justice. The agenda is exhausted. Request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e20604	We are now negotiating the request made by Mr Wabl and Mr Comrades to set up a committee of inquiry on the responsibility of members of the Federal Government in connection with the free exit of so-called Kurds murderers. As this request has now been distributed to all Members, reading by the author does not need to be done. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e20654	We're going into the short debate. I would remind you of the time limit in accordance with the Rules of Procedure in this case, namely: Applicants 10 minutes, other speakers 5 minutes; Comments of members of the Federal Government or State Secretarys, as reported, should not exceed 10 minutes. The applicant, Mr Wabl, now speaks with a maximum time limit of 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e20700	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, I have expected today that the President of the Federal Republic will sit in his log, because I think that a genuine citizen should take care of the people's representation! This is because things are being negotiated, from which he could cut off and look away. In the case of the critical speeches by the ÖVP women, in these absolutely radical feminist approaches by Mrs Rauch-Kallat and Mrs Bauer, what would have been inside for Mr Klestil. I'll tell you. [[Accompaniment with the Greens, the Liberal Forum and the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] Mr Wurmitzer! It would have been embarrassing for Mr Klestil, of course, if the women and men of Haider were to overtake the Social Democrats at once on the left. This would have been quite embarrassing for Mr Klestil. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wormitzer.]] After all, I thought: What does this prodigious report mean by a newspaper from Friday, 17. April? - By the way, I am glad that I am always fully informed, because I already have the issue of 17th. April in front of me. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: Always live!]] Klestill says: "I could be more critical in the future." - That's what I thought: How does a President possibly not know what is critical? [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I then looked at this article more closely and found that it is really very interesting, of course, in connection with the Kurdish problem. [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: Mr President! What is the matter now being dealt with?]] I thought: How can I have an animation of such a state-bearing party and of Mr. Khol, the Catholics and Christians? [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is a Tautology!]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: That's Pleonasmus!]] - Because I didn't want to provoke him anymore, because that certainly doesn't do him well today! I thought: How can I make him say anything about the fact that a President like Kletyl obviously has no problem with the fact that most of the opposition and also the majority of the media are being put into space the suspicion of cooperation between the Heads of State and Murder? [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: Have you seen the Easter hare parade?]] What else can be said? But that doesn't excite him! [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: That's stupid!]] Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like I know that in this House it is often difficult to bring the relations to the right place. At the beginning the difficult topic of genetic engineering was today, in which you only have the gene potatoes. Then came the difficult problem of women's people's desire, in which context you probably have learned from the pike on, which is actually the problem of feminism. And then there is the difficult problem that Mr Ofner has set out in connection with the Rules of Procedure... Okay, with the Penal Code. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: This had nothing to do with the order of execution, but with the criminal order!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] I wasn't in the hall. I'm so sorry. The continuous change of topics, of course, makes difficulties, Mr Schwimmer. I'll tell you one thing: I'm having trouble with it, too. I'm really in trouble with it! [[Congratulations to ODP and SPÖ representatives.]] When I see your face, I think: What did the "Salzburger Nachrichten" mean by the wording "Fratze des Injustices"? [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] And even if I see the face of Khol, I think: What was really meant by that? Was it meant that the style should finally be more critical? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwarzenberger.]] Is it perhaps that you, Mr Swimmer, are finally beginning to understand that people's representatives should sit in this House, and not just offices? - I don't know exactly what was meant! But I'm going to think about it, maybe by Sunday I'll come up with what Klestil meant. Mr. Walter Ostovic said that Mr. Klestil should have found some courageous word in connection with the Wehrmacht exhibition, because he finally...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e20849	Mr Wabl! They are now very far away from the so-called Kurd murders!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e20881	Mr President. Thank you for the note! Mr President. [[Abg. Arbitrators: At least once say "Research Committee"!]] It is a question of setting up a committee of inquiry. [[Congratulations and lively cheerfulness with the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] It is the question to ask why...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e20923	Please, continue, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e20944	Mr President. You must ensure that this House becomes a little more serious on this issue! [[General hustle and bustle.]] [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: You should use the alcomats!]] That with the alcomats would be a very good provocation, you're right, Mr. Swimper! I just don't know who to put these alcomats! [[Renewal hustle and bustle.]] We will make this request to set up a committee of inquiry even more often. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] I know you find this very funny. I also sometimes find it very funny because I can't make the relations anymore that you are people's representatives...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e20992	Mr Wabl! I would like to ask you now to speak on the matter, namely the setting up of the specific committee of inquiry. For it is in a conspicuous misunderstanding that you have only used the word "examining committee" twice so far, whereas it is much more often called the name of the President-in-Office of the Federal Republic of Germany!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e21013	Mr President. The Committee of Inquiry should be set up in order to review the role of President Kletyl as Secretary-General of the Foreign Office, and it is therefore important to know the mood of our critical President in the House, as there is obviously no majority to be found on this issue. [[Cheerfulness with the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] Mr President. I know that it is very difficult at this time to find serious words for this. [[Renewal hustle and bustle.]] That's what I'm admitting! I admit that, as I have already indicated, this is very difficult in this constant change of topics. But maybe you can be serious for a moment. I'm trying to do it now, too. You might remember my gesture here in this house. - There are sometimes situations in which words are not enough. (The speaker raised his hand and pointed out a certain gesture. Lively cheerful.)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e21050	Was that the final sentence, Mr Deputies?
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e21065	Mr President. At least I expect you to be the only one who is still very serious that you agree to this request for the setting up of an investigation committee, because the Freedom Party has always been in favour of the detection of maladministrations!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e21092	Mrs Gredler is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Speaking time from now on: 5 minutes. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e21111	I want to pick up the thread where my previous speaker left it. [[General hustle and bustle.]] Unfortunately, I can't be as funny as he is! But I would like to confront you with a few comments that have been made to the media. I quote an APA message: "The murders of three Kurd politicians in Vienna, to be held by Iran, had not been presented by him, admitted Rohan. They're history." - Three murders in Vienna, ladies and gentlemen, be history! Keep laughing! I don't think that's funny anymore! And this is what Mr Rohan said, who is still Secretary General in the Foreign Office! ==References====External links== In March he spoke of an "atmosphere of greater liberality" after he was in Iran. - It seems that the situation in Iran is not so liberal, because Foreign Minister Kinkel restricted the development of German-Iranian relations to depend on the case of German Helmut Hofer, who was sentenced to death in Iran. However, the Iranian Human Rights Commission considers that the death sentence against the Germans is correct. Hofer now insists on an appeal procedure. The 54-year-old Hofer had been sentenced to death for the accusation of forbidden sexual relations with a Muslim. [[Call the ÖVP: It was the Hofer!]] And Iran had made it quite clear that, in the case of the German sentenced to death, he is not prepared to tolerate any foreign interference. Furthermore - now I already come to a report from 30. March 1998 -: "Iran criticizes Norway's head of government after meeting Rushdie; Threatened by increased sanctions against Oslo." [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: What does this have to do with the application?]] - That's the atmosphere of greater liberality! And now I'm telling you what this has to do with the request: In my opinion, it would have been the duty of every representative of the Austrian Government who, after the ambassadors returned, to follow the extradition request, which was still not taken into account, in Iran. It would have been his obligation to address the Kurdish murders there. But he did not! There is the context to be seen when someone says that one is now in an "atmosphere of greater liberality" in Iran. - It is obvious that this is not the case if one even threatens Oslo with economic sanctions, if there may be a development that Iran does not want to see! And Mr. Karabastchi, the mayor of the Iranian capital, one who would be liberal, is in prison. [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: What does this have to do with the application?]] Ladies and gentlemen! We want to clarify the Kurdish murders in Austria. We want to know how it behaved back then. We want to know whether there is political responsibility for the fact that the third suspect has disappeared after there was an order from Mr Kletil, then Secretary General, to loosen the guard. We want this - besides other things - to be clarified! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] [[Abg. May. Barmüller: "Power needs control!"]] Of course you can say that what I said yesterday is not correct. I see that perhaps the Causa could not be mentioned in this context. But, Mr Stadler, at the same time you have mentioned a problem with the pension of the President of the Federal Republic of Germany. I did not understand the connection with the Committee of Inquiry either. [[Abg. May. Stadler: But that's not up to me!]] I did not know what to blame him for in connection with the Committee of Inquiry. If you think that a request he made, where he was then very surprised that the pension was transferred to him, and then he suddenly approached Parliament in his helplessness, in order to make this procedure...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e21199	Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e21215	It has turned to Parliament to correct the operation of the Ministry of Finance. This is really not related to the Committee of Inquiry. However, I would like the procedure to be clarified by then.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e21239	No one is reported in the word anymore. That concludes the debate. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request by Mr Wabl and Mr Comrades for the setting up of an investigation committee. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to join this request to be a sign of approval. - This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1998-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00116_d8e21275	I would also like to say that at today's sitting, the self-employed were brought in applications 748/A to 764/A. Question No 4286/J to 4329/J has also been received. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, after the end of this sitting, there will be another meeting. I ask you to stay in the hall for a short while. The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business allocations and communications, will be convened at 0.59 p.m., immediately following this meeting. This meeting is closed.
