ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e1913	Ladies and gentlemen! I can warmly welcome you and open the 139. Meeting of the National Council. For today's day of sitting as prevented, MEPs are reported Mag. Head and Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e1944	For today's meeting, the Federal Chancellor's Office on the resolution of the Federal President concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government has made the following statement: Federal Minister for the Environment, Youth and Family Dr. Martin Bartenstein is represented by Federal Minister Dr. Fassleven. We'll get to Question Time. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: No!]] - No? [[Abg. Dr Schmidt: Business treatment, please!]] Please, Mrs. Dr. Schmidt, to deal with business matters.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e1987	In the short term, we have just understood a debate on the Liberals' request to discuss the objections to this agenda, and not after the hour of Question Time. I would therefore like to justify the objections of the Liberals: The agenda has not been drawn up in agreement – the so-called democratic package – but in order to explain why we believe that these points are wrong on today's agenda, I ask you to hold a debate.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e2014	They have heard this request. In accordance with Article 50 of the Rules of Procedure, objections to an agenda should be made after the opening of the meeting, but before the date of entry into the agenda. We usually do so after Question Time, but before entering the agenda. There is no fundamental obstacle to carrying out this irregularly today before the start of Question Time. Under Article 50 of the Rules of Procedure, there is the right to hold a debate on objections. The President has the right to limit the speaking time to 5 minutes. I use this right and give Mrs Schmidt the floor for 5 minutes to justify the objections. Mrs Dr Schmidt came to speak. Amendments to the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e2047	Mr President. Federal Minister! And now I'm saying, Ladies and gentlemen, I am saying this because it should be in the interests of parliamentarians that it should not be allowed to take such a course as it was chosen by the great coalition – I deliberately say "coalition" and not "deputies". I can't remember that in recent years, questions that have directly affected Parliament have been carried out in a way that is now intended, that is, without reference to the MPs of the opposition. I can't remember that a question that concerns Parliament's rights was simply discussed in the coalition offices and was then informed about the media, on which day it will then be decided and actually taking place, without at least a cry of opposition. However, I also call on the Members of the Coalition Party not simply to let themselves be taken on board, but to express their self-esteem that it is Parliament's concern to discuss certain things in its conduct. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] On the last day of the session, the coalition parties submitted proposals for initiative, and Mr. Klubobmann Khol, as you are sitting here, directed all over the newspapers, which is now a democratic package, which took place on 17 and 18 February. It was decided in September. I assume that you, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties, too have not yet known these drafts. We have certainly not known them, they have only been presented to us at this time. [[Calls and calls to the ÖVP and the Liberal Forum.]] Then came the summer break, and in this summer break some argument has been exchanged about the media – when you generously interpret the word "exchange" because it was a download and nothing else, and it has been recorded due to the summer hole. [[Further calls and calls between the ÖVP and the Liberal Forum.]] Then the session started. On the first day of this session, a Constitutional Committee was set up in which there was a general discussion. . I am now saying "fine discussion" because the Members, in particular the ÖVP, but also the SPÖ, have hardly made a statement on matter, except for those points that are in place. But what democracy in this country really needs to be called and our ideas about it have not been discussed at all. That is, if we now – it can only be a Lapsus linguae – call this package a democratic package, then that – I give you right, dear Andreas – is an increase in Parliament, and that is the most imaginable start of parliamentary work. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] [[Abg. Wabl: What the Khol means by constitution!]] That the core questions of democracy should be put on the stage by these coalition parties, without involving anyone, I consider insulting, insulting each and every one of them, except for the club members of the coalition parties, because they obviously did so with the government. What is included in a democratic package is what I am going to say in my contribution to the debate, but it is certainly not just those marginalities that you are presenting. That is why we have called for a subcommittee to be set up in which we can discuss it and, of course, with majority voting, we can achieve a result. So much loss of reality I know that you have the majority and the majority of the constitutional majority in this House. But it is a question of the concept of democracy, how to deal with such a majority. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] As you have dealt with this, democracy and, above all, parliamentary democracy have absolutely nothing to do with it. Use That is why you are no longer speaking this word.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e2113	Mr Kostelka is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e2134	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mrs Schmidt, democracy is not equivalent to the procedural wishes of each small and smallest opposition group. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wabl: Everyone small!]] I would ask you to note that in this connection you did not prevail among the opposition groups of this House. I even made the following offer in the presidency: They want longer discussions in the Constitutional Committee, so we set up a Constitutional Committee on 15. On September, we set up and set up a subcommittee. This means, however, that the consultation of the democratic package on the plenary day, on 18 November. September, so today, is not possible. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Yes, I agreed!]] The alternative we have offered to the opposition groups was therefore – I in the President – either a plenary week, namely this plenary week, with a meeting day and subcommittee meetings and decision-making of the democratic package at a later date or a two-day plenary week, namely this two-day plenary week, but then the decision-making of the democratic package this week. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Who?]] [[Abg. Dr Schmidt: That was the majority! Why didn't you do it?]] The result was that two of the opposition groups were a two-day plenary week more important than the establishment of a subcommittee. [[Abg. Wabl: Not at all!]] That was the result of the Presidential. [[Abg. Wabl: This is an invention! Show me that in the Minutes!]] Mr Wabl! You can turn it and turn it as you want, you have even explicitly accepted it in the Presidential. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In this context, I would therefore ask you to stick to the agreements. [[Abg. Wabl: We like to be mocked, but that we still let ourselves be defamed, we don't do so, we don't play with it!]] This democratic package is an essential aspect of enlargement and the better design of direct democracy in our country; a design that brings Austria a direct democratic position similar to that of a few states in Europe. This is a proper way of dealing with democracy, a proper way of dealing with the opposition. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: That's not true what you're saying!]] And opposition really shouldn't be equated with sadness.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e2275	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Khol. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e2296	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! There is general consensus that it is time to eliminate the privilege of eight Members instead of 6 000 citizens to propose a candidate for the Federal presidential election. [[Abg. Wabl: General? What's in general? That's your "constitutional" again!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intercom calls at the Liberal Forum.]] I already understand the anger of the unsuccessful presidential candidate Schmidt, who not only took advantage of this privilege once, but also twice during the last election. [[Abg. May. Peter: This is not the theme!]] And it hurts right now, Mrs Schmidt, if you lose privileges. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wabl: We must protect the people from small presidential candidates!]] There is general consensus that a Member's vote in the democratic proposal procedure should no longer be counted as the citizen's. [[Abg. Dr Schmidt: We have a debate on the Rules of Procedure!]] [[Abg. Wabl: This is a debate on the Rules of Procedure!]] So if we end the privilege now that six Members can introduce a popular desire and replace 10,000 citizens, I already understand the anger of the Greens and the Liberals who do not like to miss out on this privilege. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Wabl:... that the President can access officials, send them somewhere to wish at the expense of the state!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have debated enough, we have already decided on major constitutional changes in a shorter period of time when they correspond to the general consensus. I see no reason why today, after we have already tabled these proposals in July, after we have discussed them in the Constitutional Committee for an afternoon, we should not decide on this. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: The Liberals' requests have been in this house for over a year!]] I also believe that it is very important that we make simplifications as soon as possible in the selection of letters, because we can thus facilitate all future elections. [[Abg. May. Peter: The opposition is disturbing!]] [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: If you no longer want to consult Parliament, do not remove it!]] We should get to a signature as soon as possible from the two signatures that are necessary abroad, that is our goal. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is why we want to decide on this democratic package today and do not want to let two opposition parties that lose privileges go on.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e2468	The next speaker is Mr Wabl. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e2511	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It seems strange when Mr Khol and Mr Kostelka act here in this House as the top privileges destroyers. There has been a great danger to Austrian democracy: Not by abolishing the presidential elections, because the Great, the Red and the Black Brother agreed that we "oh" have such a good President, it would be best to have a monarchy that we are going through, but by the fact that smooth small parties have arrived to set up their own candidates with the signatures of representatives of the people. Unbelievable, this privilege! We have to act there immediately, and we can't wait for it anymore! This privilege is abolished. Mr. Khol! In this country, in our beautiful country Austria, there are hundreds of thousands of people who are organized into citizens' initiatives, who have not been party to the whole of the mountain law for years. There are hundreds of thousands of people in initiatives that fight against corruption, against official abuse, against premeditation by officials, areas where you do not touch a finger. And now you discover the great privilege of Mrs Schmidt, fight against it and call it, ladies and gentlemen, democracy package. Mr. Khol! As a small party, we are used to being ridiculed by you, but a democracy does not appear in the way in which the majority prevails against minorities, but in how it deals with the rights of minorities. And today you step back with your feet, something you do regularly. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] You, Mr. Khol, have the right to negotiate your "democracy package" for months with your red brother. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rosemarie Bauer.]] The Liberals, the Greens and the Freedom Party approve of exactly one afternoon to sit with them and accept what you made up in your coalition bunker. That's what you call democracy package? Mr. Khol! If you had invented democracy, there would be a honey-ratiod club of chamber councils and black mayors sitting here, speckled with a few small red works councils, and that would be it.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e2566	The next speech is by Mr Barmüller. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e2596	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Khol must be reminded that these requests by the Liberals you did not want to discuss are already in Parliament for over a year and that you were the one who opened the Constitutional Committee with the words that you had already agreed that everything had already been decided. – It was not at all possible to add anything to the Constitutional Committee from the Liberals, the Greens or the Liberals. [[Abg. Arbitrators: That's not true!]] You don't need to turn around and look elsewhere. They now want to abolish in this House something which has, in fact, been recognized by all political groups as an evil. You say that it is a democratic package, and you want to press ahead with the fact that there are other measures to be taken in this country, Mr Arbitrator. If you object here that this is not true, what I say, then you will orient... [[Abg. They were not there at all! You tell me something from the committee and you weren't there at all. You missed and told from the committee! They're missing and tell us what was there! That's ridiculous!]] I do not miss the committee, but this was a matter of course in our club meeting, because everyone was outraged about your way of doing so. That's the truth! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: He weakens the school and gives relief!]] If you do not want to note that it will be necessary in this country if you are talking about democracy, not only with your two-thirds majority, to decide what you have made up between the social partners, then it will be necessary that you not only lose this two-thirds majority, but also the majority for your coalition. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e2664	I have another speech from Mr Kostelka. Time left: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e2685	Mr Barmüller! Morning excitement should not lead to a failure to stick to the facts. It is true that, contrary to your accusation, I have called for every word message in accordance with the rules of procedure. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: I did not claim the opposite! Only: What has been implemented?]] There was no abbreviation. What is more important – that is why I really find your comment and your speech to be "serious" – was that we started the discussions at 12 o'clock and at 4:15 p.m. no more words are available. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: Because the opinion formation was completed by your side!]] [[Abg. May. Barmüller: How many opposition amendments did you accept?]] It is therefore not true that no consultation has been allowed. On the contrary, we have been discussing for so long as the discussion has gone on. Its accusation that a debate has been held unlawfully or undemocraticly does not correspond to the facts. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: Since 10.4.1997 the Liberals' requests have been in the house! Since 10.4.1997!]] I really ask you – even in the face of all excitement – to carry out this reasoning mediaically and to stick to the truth and nothing but the truth.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e2761	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e2782	Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I think the best comment – I really do not share the opinion of this editor always and everywhere – has written exactly on this question, Mr Conrad Seidl in the "standard". It has been described exactly your hypocrisy that you have in this question...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e2809	Ladies and gentlemen, please! That's not how it is!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e2824	You are going here with your hypocrisy, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, and under the opposition parties, they would have privileges on this issue – although it is still the privilege of all parties in the future, in a election to the National Council, to nominate their own party on parliamentary mandates. You didn't do it. Of course, leave it with this privilege, which is also pleasant to you. But where it is a matter of making visible outward appearance that you are drawing from the privilege of minorities who are in danger of entering federal presidential elections, where it is a matter of concealing the influence of parties, which becomes visible by the fact that parties can also nominate candidates, by the influence of anonymous groups, where it is a matter of concealing that, of course, large devices in your parties have much easier the opportunity to come to this candidate with their votes. She's the great democratic savior. Explain It is for this House why it needs 8,000 votes in the future for the introduction of a popular desire, why it needs 6,000 votes for a presidential candidate, and why parliamentary mandates are still possible for the candidate of a party. Explain the differences; these are not solvable by a concept, ladies and gentlemen, with which you pretend to protect democracy and minority rights. It is only you that you should cut the rights and possibilities that parties actually have in a political debate, cut down on the open influence of parties, which is quite right and legitimate, and replace them with the possibilities hidden behind large organizations, such as your parties, which are undoubtedly yours. If you believe it is more democratic that at the next Federal President's election only more Mr. Klestil or a successor of him candidates – he will no longer be able to run – then say it quite openly! Then you say quite openly that you want to, but then we do not discuss the privileges of minority parties, of minorities who, as we saw yesterday, are very difficult to enforce their rights, their legitimate rights. There are enough examples to demonstrate to you, despite your generosity, how difficult it is to enforce certain rights, despite the generosity of Mr Khol, whom he seems to be willing to exercise against minorities; I only remember the Committee of Inquiry. But let's stick to the subject. That's why we mean: If you already want to have a privilege debate, we will hold the privilege debate, but please separate it from the democratic debate. If you want to hold a democratic debate, we are happy to be there, but please together with the opposition parties. And take time for this, go to the arguments and try, above all, to rethink and clarify your positions towards minorities, towards political groups in this House.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e2873	The next speaker is Mrs Dr Schmidt. Time left: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e2895	Mr President. Everyone knows from the Liberals and in particular from me that I am taking rules of the game seriously and therefore I have never misused a debate on the Rules of Procedure – I believe – for a contentious debate, as usual here. Therefore, I do not want to do it now, but rather to deal with the procedure and why we are making the request – I am doing so, Mr President – to delete Agenda items 2 to 5. These agenda items concern the so-called democratic package. Mr Khol! You have actually shown with your speech – I just want this to be perceived as such – how bad your conscience must be about the process, because you have not made any comment on the procedure, but you have taken your argument in the matter yourself in the lower drawer and provided me with a motivation, Mr Khol, who should be under your dignity. It's a prime argument. I would not have trusted you, although I have already read it in the newspaper, that you would still repeat it here, because it would not be worth it to you. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] It's about the procedure. I would like to see that there have been two political groups or their chiefs in this area representing our democracy, which concerns Members and Members' rights. I ask you all whether you were at all involved in the discussion, whether it would be useful, for example, for provisions that we are going to discuss afterwards, to fall or not from Members' rights and where they should fall or not. Were you even involved? [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Yes!]] – In any case, no one has been asked by the opposition only how he stands at these points. Mr Kostelka! Mr Barmüller did not say that something was not acceptable; he said something that corresponded to the facts, namely that the other points in this committee were not discussed. Now I know you're going to say – that's how it was done – that there has been no more word messages. That's exactly what I'm saying: There has been a lack of discussion. They have not dealt with the arguments of the opposition. I don't know how many times I have spoken, and there has been no response. Now you can say quite: because there was no interest in people. I know that we can also discuss at this level. We both know, however, that it was simply that you wanted to prove that there was no need to speak there. But that means that the majority in this House do not even deal with the arguments of the opposition, and that was the procedure. That is why we say that this is undemocratic – not after the coat. The coat is right, but the content is wrong. This is the same as the FPÖ: The coat is right, but the content is wrong.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e2936	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Stadler. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e2958	High house! The Liberals have the impression that it is a group consisting of a teacher who distributes censorships. Today the student Khol was angry, he was not good again. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: You have a trauma, Stadler! Some trauma from school!]] Then the student Barmüller comes out, blackens the school, he has blackened the session, comes out and tells us what was in the session – especially those who were at the meeting. Mr Barmüller! First of all, there have been extensive discussions... – Watch out, Mr. Wabl, otherwise you will get a bad note from Mrs. Oberlehrer! [[Abg. Wabl: Stadler writes in the "Constitutional Arch"! Stadler wants to enter the "Constitutional Arch"!]] [[Further calls to the Liberal Forum and the Greens.]] You have to be careful, because intermissions are not allowed, she said yesterday. Mr Barmüller, therefore, is weakening the sitting, then comes out and tells us what did not happen at the sitting. I know that there has been a long consultation there, and for this reason for a long time, because there have been half-hours – by the way, more than boring – of Mrs Schmidt's monologist, who really didn't interest anyone anymore. These were so boring and tiring that you cannot complain about the fact that no one has ever responded to your monologue. You have to attribute that to yourself. There was, above all, the criticism of Mrs Schmidt that this was not a democratic package, but only a package. But that is why I share this assessment, which is a pack in the size of a tobacco box, to demand a subcommittee, is probably an exaggeration, ladies and gentlemen! You must agree on this: If it is either a democratic package in which we need a subcommittee, or if it is what I consider it to be, a democratic package in the size of a tobacco box, then I do not need a subcommittee for that? [[Abg. May. Barmüller: Maybe you should make the pack a little bigger!]] The deliberations in the Constitutional Committee were long and extensive enough for this Minipacker, and you have ultimately contributed to this with your boring monologues. Mr Wabl! Something else, and that's especially true for you. [[Abg. Wabl: Please!]] I take you by now that you are concerned about the rights of minorities. But then you should not have accepted Mrs Schmidt's last reform of the Rules of Procedure. They come out permanently, complain of the narrowing of the rights of the opposition groups, but they have decided to do so. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That's what it was. Their case, when the last time you were removed from the Tripartite Group of Opposition Groups on Rules of Procedure, and together with the two government parties, they made a common cause in the deterioration of the rights of the opposition and minority groups. Now you are constantly complaining that you have shot yourself in your own knees. We're used to this with Mrs Schmidt, but you shouldn't. [[Abg. Wabl: Mr. Stadler! You have the last time you have been bought out by the Committee of Inquiry.]] You should remember who made the wall here in the deterioration of the rights of minorities in the house. Now you have to live with it. That's the problem. If you allow yourself to be pulled over the table so to speak, then you must not be ashamed that the result is bad afterwards. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] Ladies and gentlemen! One last: This also shows how important he - I am now again the student Barmüller - is obviously the rights of Parliament. You know, the government parties, together with the two opposition traffic lights, are using a group that calls itself "fresh meat on old bones". That was a very significant work title for Mr Barmüller. "Fresh on old bones" – I don't know who the old bone is. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: What bone does he mean? Does he mean his own?]] Ladies and gentlemen! "Fresh on old bones" – and then you want to discuss how Parliament should be further developed, how Parliament's rights should be further developed, but the largest opposition party will not be invited – not that I want to be there. I do not want to play the "old bone" with you, Mr Barmüller, for that you have more competence in your ranks. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: What are you up to, Stadler?]] But, ladies and gentlemen, "Fresh meat on old bones" does not mean that you have the right to twist things out here as it fits you agitatorically into the crab. I understand that Mrs Schmidt is no longer happy if, in the future, she is to collect signatures for her Presidential Lambbitions, which she does not receive from the citizen. It doesn't matter to the citizen, we've already learned that, because she doesn't get signatures. That is why she is angry at the fact that this privilege is now abolished. Of course, she is now trying to put herself in a political scene because she is still under the impression of the Bavarian country election results, in which her friends – Max Stadler – were involved by the Bavarian liberals.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e3097	Mr Stadler! We often have disagreements about the handling of the Rules of Procedure. The problem is when quantity shifts to quality. The debate on the motion for a resolution is a debate on the Rules of Procedure. I admit that all the political groups are repeatedly discussing the matter on a debate on the Rules of Procedure on the agenda. This has also been done by Mr Wabl, all of whom have done so. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's what everyone did!]] But the Bavarian country elections or the initiative has nothing to do with it. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That was just the final sentence!]] I say this in the friendly and correct form, so that you do not feel disadvantaged, but that it is also clear that the effort to ensure compliance with the Rules of Procedure is not absolved – with all ease and with all due respect for the warmth of a debate that then exudes a bit. Mr Khol has three minutes left to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e3153	I would still like to answer Mrs Schmidt's question about the procedure so that perhaps I can get over my dignity again, my colleague. I might get a Roman one. We have in May, Mrs Schmidt, as They signed twice for a candidate who started public discussion on the question: Is a signature to replace the signature of 25 000 Austrian citizens? We have also begun the public debate on whether a Member or a Member of Parliament should be able to benefit from this privilege twice. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Barmüller.]] [[Abg. Wabl: You don't need to say "democracy hectic"!]] It was a general consensus – I have already pointed out – that this was no longer the case in modern times. After a long public debate in July, we tabled the proposals for initiative. No matter how much you can judge – for one thing, it's a big package, for the other a small one – it's a step anyway. In September, before the meeting of the Committee, we then held talks with political groups which had expressed their disapproval of some detail that they wanted to complement it. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: This is a distortion of reality, what you say!]] This has led to a change in some of the suggestions that have come from the Green Group in the Constitutional Committee; we have tabled an amendment today at second reading. This is a very important amendment which facilitates signatures. So, that means there's been ordinary conversations. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: That's wrong!]] [[Abg. Wabl: "Original" is exaggerated!]] We then discussed for a whole afternoon what we proposed. Mrs Schmidt! All you have said there was that you do not agree with one another or another and that you should really talk about something else about the rights of the President of the Federal Republic, about the question of the right of majority voting – which you reject, which I also reject – and so on, but you did not make any requests. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: About more democracy!]] It was nothing in the committee. What you are really sorry about here is that you are such a small group that you cannot enforce your ideas here. It is the suffering of the missing majority. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But I tell you, Mrs Schmidt: You will not replace your missing majority with Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e3254	Mr Wabl, with his remaining speaking time, will come to the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e3284	Mr President. It is always a great experience in this house when the "Constitutional Arch" Bastler Khol stands here at the speaker's desk and speaks of large packages, although he actually only means: [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Thank you!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You could learn something!]] Oh, there's something we've discovered! That's where the minorities have inherited! We have already made up the red and black committee, but it should only be allowed to run for the presidency more of the Thommy. There are others who also want something. We must abolish this privilege! But that you say "package" to that, Mr. Khol, that's an exaggeration. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: What did you do?]] Mr Khol, if you had taken care of this, with citizens' initiatives, with popular desire for people who have to go to the local office and get official confirmations there, so that their signatures can be made easier, I would have said: Yeah, now we're on the right track. Ladies and gentlemen! What Mr. Khol does is his usual game: He determines what democracy is in this country, and the red friend and brother marches with it. But today we have experienced a wonderful story. The great constitutional archer, who has spread out a beautiful coat and determines who is allowed to cuddle in it, has got a new resident today. I believe that Mr Stadler has become a little cold in the blue corner, so alone in this republic, that he must no longer be with the black brother. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Is that part of the Rules of Procedure?]] Some of his group have already looked for warmer filters, but now he thinks: [[Rejoicing at the SPÖ]] I would also like to take a little breath in this constitutional cloak of Mr Khol, and he comes out here and tells me that he is actually the oppositionist who has always fought for the rights. Mr. Stadler! You have forgotten that it was your group that sold one of the most important instruments of this House, namely the Investigation Committee, the Quorum of the Investigation Committee in favour of any rights for the Freedom Party. And now you come out and say you always wanted to be there anyway!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e3356	Mr Wabl! This has nothing to do with an objection debate! – Please continue for the remaining 20 seconds!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e3383	Thank you, Mr President. I just wanted to explain why he is against the objection debate and why he is so happy with this agenda: Because he can finally get back into his black friend's house. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e3413	No one is reporting on this. The debate on the agenda for today's sitting is thus closed. In accordance with Article 50 of the Rules of Procedure, the National Council shall decide on this question. We shall proceed to the vote, and we shall vote on Mrs Dr Schmidt's request to withdraw points 2 to 5 from the agenda today. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to take account of the objections, i.e. those who vote in favour of the withdrawal of points 2 to 5 for a sign in this regard. – This is the minority, which means that it remains in the agenda for today’s sitting. Question Time
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e3453	We now arrive at Question Time at 9.45 a.m. The 1st. Debates of the European Parliament Please, honourable Member. Federal Ministry of Science and Transport
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e3478	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Since 1994 a technology policy approach has been developed. In Alpbach, however, you have called the draft, which was prepared by your expert Schmidt and Hochleitner, failed. However, there is an urgent need for technology guidelines. In this context, the following question to you: 215/M What concrete steps will be taken Are you setting a new approach to technology policy guidelines, especially since the much-discussed Schmidt-Hochleitner draft has not been implemented according to your own statements?
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e3505	Federal Minister, please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e3520	Mr President. High house! Mr Schöggl! You are right to discuss the Federal Government's technology guidelines for a long time. However, I should like to remind you that in the late part of 1996 my predecessor sent and presented to Parliament a first detailed proposal on these guidelines and that, I am surprised that you did not remember, we also had detailed debates in the Scientific Committee. It is true, however, that I said in Alpbach that the proposal made by the two experts of the Federal Government, Schmidt and Hochleitner, in the form they presented, was not implemented only later, namely last year. However, this has nothing to do with the fact that the technological guidelines would not have been implemented. Let me give you some details in detail. We have created the Kplus funding programme for the establishment of high-performance cooperative research centres between industry and high-quality research institutions, following very detailed preparatory work and preparation of appropriate conditions. The procurement directives for the new science and economic programme have been amended by the EU Commission. The selection process for the pilot phase is based on strict scientific and objective criteria. The decision on the first centres of competence under the "Kplus" programme will be made on 24 March. ==References====External links== ==References====External links== The applications that have been received are extremely encouraging, in particular as regards the high level of economic participation. Further this autumn, after the decision on the first projects, the main phase of the "Kplus" programme will be announced, and the implementation of this programme will be carried out outside of the Ministry in a distributed private-law-organised society, which is certainly the subject of suggestions from Schmidt and Hochleitner. The second – and this too should, I think, be quite seen and made known accordingly – is: We have received an excellent result from the new high-school courses in the framework of the Impulse programme "Cooperation of the technical universities with the economy". We have received 22 proposals, all at the highest level, and we have implemented 11 of them. In other words, there are eleven programmes aimed at ensuring that, in their respective regional context, the universities share their know-how and research with the regional economy, thereby contributing in particular to the benefit of small and medium-sized enterprises from the existence and know-how of the universities. We have used 40 million schillings in this area, and after the very good successes of the first round, we have been convinced that it is useful and necessary to set a second in motion. We are in front of the call for a second round. Third point – a great success too –: They know that one of the key difficulties in transferring from universities to businesses is, in particular, to small and medium-sized enterprises. We have therefore developed a new programme, the so-called post-doc programme for the economy. It is about sending graduates of a doctoral degree, who have also worked research-orientedly, to the companies and creating an incentive that is attractive both to these doctoral graduates and to the companies. The programme has been extremely well adopted, and we are therefore determined to invest another 50 million schillings in this programme for the next three years. Fourth point – this is in itself already widely communicated –: Together with the city and the country of Vienna, we have decided to support a project, which is the Techgate Vienna project. The aim is to establish a high-quality science and technology centre on the Danube Plate in order to ensure that the dynamics of technological innovation and the transfer of science to industrial practice take place in Vienna. We have also decided to spend 660 million schillings together in the next few years. Finally, let me mention a point which is already at the interface to the transition to pure industrial promotion. You know, we've been running a climate wind channel very successfully in the Arsenal in recent years. It is the only such facility that allows European railways to test their new trains, their new locomotives, but also their cars' state-of-the-art requirements in accordance with both wind and climate conditions. It has been shown that newer technologies are now available and necessary for this purpose, and it has also succeeded in keeping the successor for this climate-wind test in Austria. We will therefore create a new facility for this purpose in the following years – also again in Vienna – and it will be the only one in Europe in which high-quality test work on rail transport can be carried out. Investment costs are about 800 million schilling, and we have decided to make a significant contribution from technology funding. All in all, I believe that it is possible to say that not only the guidelines which have been sent to Parliament at the end of 1996 and which have been discussed in detail in the Scientific Committee have been implemented, but also in concrete practice, a number of projects that will bring Austria forward in the field of science and technology have been implemented or are in the implementation phase.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e3577	Would you like an additional question, Mr Deputies? [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: No!]] Thank you. Mr President, I would like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e3603	Federal Minister! I agree with you that we need two things for our technology policy: on the one hand, a strategic approach that you have now discussed, on the other hand, but also adequate funding. And we still have a lot to think about. However, the implementation of such concepts requires regional initiatives. For example, the country of Tyrol has provided 30 million Schilling for the construction of two technology centres, one in Landeck, one in Reutte. The ERP Fund has assessed these two projects positively. What's missing is your signature. Federal Minister! When can we expect your signature for the two Tyrolean technology centres?
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e3625	Federal Minister, please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e3640	Member of the European Parliament, first of all: I am very happy that not only the country of Tyrol, but all the federal states of well-understood interest are willing to support technology centres in their respective territory. The Federation also supports these projects, as you know, and after a final examination I will be able to give this signature.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e3655	Thank you. – Next supplementary question: Mrs Dr. Moser.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e3671	Federal Minister! There is no doubt that the technological guidelines are too late, and it is undoubtedly also necessary that these guidelines be supplemented by an assessment of the effects of technology. What measures will be taken You are meeting to take into account the technology consequences – word genetic engineering – into account as well?
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e3689	Federal Minister, please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e3704	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I can at least disagree with you on one point. I think that something that came two years ago cannot now be qualified as too late. It's been a while. As regards the issue of technology assessment, we are convinced that it makes sense and also fits in our development concept for university development that, where genetic engineering studies and research are carried out, accompanying research, which in particular the risk side to be illuminated and assessed, is carried out by the same university. I assume that this is not only in the interests of security and transparency, but also in the interests of holistic or universal processing of relevant research topics throughout the university.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e3726	Thank you, Minister of State. Mrs Dr Gredler, please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e3744	Federal Minister! Last year you had to manage a budget of approximately 460 million schilling from the melted technology billion. At the end of November, you told us that you still haven't spent around 200 million schillings. My question: How has the budget been spent last year? What's it like this time with the technology billions? What has been made available to researchers up to now?
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e3762	Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e3778	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I have also given you a comprehensive answer, as I believe, when we last spoke in the Scientific Committee on this question. The concept we are pursuing – and I mentioned the Kplus programme in detail earlier – is that we are planning, with the available resources of the first billions of technology – there are still some 200 million schilling available – a multi-annual funding of several projects that are now at our disposal. It is about transferable funds, i.e. money that does not necessarily have to be spent in the budget year itself. On the one hand, I have pointed out that we have spent a significant amount, namely about 40 million schillings, in the field of impulse programmes. We have also spent a double-digit million in the field of post-doc programmes, and we have also been able to promote a number of further research projects by strengthening the fund's funding for scientific research.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e3799	Thank you many times, Minister of State. Mr Gartlehner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e3817	Mr. Federal Minister! I too have a question in a similar direction. Of course, very many initiatives or innovative technology policies, as you are running, cost extra money, and we see the high acceptance of the last actions put by the Ministry of Science in the field of technical universities, in the field of competence centres. My question to It reads: How do you see the possibility of producing an additional teaching for science and technology in Austria in the context of a tax reform to a very clear extent?
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e3839	Federal Minister, please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e3854	Deputies! It is the Federal Government's intention and, of course, my intention is, in particular, to be responsible for science and scientific research, and this part of technology policy, to create additional instruments beyond direct budgetary funding, which are suitable not only to stimulate businesses, to invest more in science and research, in particular in research and technological development. Within the framework of the Tax Reform Commission and the discussions leading up to the major tax reform, this aspect will also play an essential role. At the same time, however, we will be able to invest additional direct funding from the proceeds of privatisations or sales of federal holdings.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e3872	Thank you. We have thus completed the first complex of questions. The second question is that of Mr Kukacka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e3891	Federal Minister! I have the following question to you: 213/M What further measures do you plan to take in the area of local transport financing after the draft local transport financing law (ÖPNRVG 1998) has been widely rejected in the review, including in the case of national finance providers and local transport providers?
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e3918	Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e3933	Thank you, Mr President. – Deputies! The draft local financing law was under review. The review process has been completed, but it has not, as I would say clearly, brought the result you have claimed. What is evident is not a broad rejection, but what is evident is a broad desire of the countries and, in part, of the communities to get more money from the federal government than has been spent by the federal government so far. I consider this wish to be quite legitimate and understandable from the point of view of the countries: Even now, the federal government is applying the lion share to finance the means of transport, i.e. a total of 24 billion schilling per year exclusively for the operation. The country's contribution may be neglected, but a significant contribution will be made by the local authorities which make available the relevant means of transport in their respective areas. The concept on the part of the federal government, which we have proposed, does not at all have to hide a comparison with other states or countries, especially the federal state of Bavaria. We are also looking forward to making available the funds currently available, namely 24 billion schilling per year. We consider about 8.5 billion Schilling to be original collective income without the means of the family compensation fund, and we are willing to provide additional benefits in future under certain conditions. The Federal Government is therefore quite expressly committed to continuing to meet its financing obligations while at the same time achieving a structural change in the organisation of public transport, and I think that will be successful. We have therefore agreed that we should first set up a working group at the level of officials between the countries, the municipalities and the federal government in order to address the last outstanding issues. I am convinced that a perspective in which the Federal Government is committed not to withdraw from the financing for the next 10 years is a very attractive offer if it is assumed that at the same time the proposed structural changes in the organisation of public transport will make significant savings possible.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e3958	Thank you, Minister. Mr Kukacka, please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e3976	Federal Minister! It will probably not be possible to implement this law, as it is now, against the explicit resistance of the Federal Government and also all the federal states, including those transport and financial representatives of the federal states that belong to the Social Democracy. In this context, we have made the proposal to hold a parliamentary survey on this issue in order to make the carts fly again. Do you think that this is a useful idea, and would this also be supported by your ministry to bring movement back into the trapped fronts?
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e3991	Please, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e4007	Deputies! Unlike you, we don't think the fronts are stuck. We are talking, we have agreed to talks, and we assume that, although I agree with you, it is not reasonable and politically possible to implement the solution, so to speak, against the explicit will of the other parties. On the other hand, we assume that it will be possible to achieve this consensus. I therefore believe that a parliamentary survey on this issue will not be necessary or appropriate in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e4033	Thank you. – Mrs Dr. Moser asks the next question.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e4049	Minister! They said that when financing public transport, the Federal Government wanted to maintain the 24-billion grant and that there would be no withdrawal over the next 10 years. I would like to ask you: How can you ensure that the additional requirements for public transport can be financed, assuming that the countries too are contributing to their share? It is essential, precisely because of the Kyoto objective, that the share of public transport in Austria is increasing. However, this can only be done through investment shifts according to international experience. How can you ensure that investment funds are also made available for the expansion of public transport if you cover the other side?
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e4064	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e4079	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I should like to point out in my reply that the 24 billion are intended exclusively for the operation of public transport, and I therefore did not mention investment at all. You're right: In order to have a corresponding capacity to shift to public transport and in particular to the most environmentally friendly forms of public transport – in general in the area of passenger transport in the light-bound transport – we invest over 15 billion schilling each year in the development of rail infrastructure. I do not think that under these conditions one can say that the money for investment is missing, although I would like to admit that we could actually invest even more because there is a need for it.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e4095	Next supplementary question: Mr Barmüller.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e4110	Federal Minister! Indeed, there is a great deal of tax money being transferred between countries, municipalities and the federal government. The countries and municipalities bear two thirds of the road costs, but only 9 percent are taxed on mineral oil. Is it an imaginable variant for you to give countries a greater share of mineral oil tax and thereby relieve them more financially of these road costs so that they can invest more money in public transport, which takes place directly in their area of responsibility?
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e4125	Please answer me, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e4141	Deputies! I can't find a move in and out of tax money in so far as the federal government usually has nothing to do with it. So if it's pushed, then only in one direction. Furthermore, we have the impression – and the federal accounts show this relatively clearly – that there was no lack of funds in the countries. They are therefore quite free to invest them in a meaningful way.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e4156	Thank you, Minister. – Mr Dietachmayr, please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e4171	Federal Minister! Financing public transport is a very important contribution. You know for yourself that a number of investments and measures are necessary, especially in central areas and in the Linz Central Area, so that we do not suffocate in traffic, and public transport is also adopted accordingly if it is modern and well developed. My question, therefore, is: What contributions from public funds have recently been spent on public transport, or is the provision of additional funds for greater investment planned in the near future?
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e4187	Federal Minister, please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e4202	Deputies! I mentioned it earlier in the initial answer to this issue: We have an annual effort on the part of the federal government for the operation of public passenger transport throughout Germany of about 24 billion schilling annually. We intend to maintain this contribution by the Federal Government to ensure attractive and appropriate local transport for consumers. As far as investment in specific projects being developed regionally is concerned, we adhere to the established key so far, and where the federal side has already invested in the development of such projects, we continue to maintain this investment willingness. As far as the project of a local transport centre in Linz, which is not specifically addressed here, is concerned, there are wishes of the country and of the city to the federal government, but they are not covered by the practice so far, and there is also a lack of a corresponding budget approach on the federal side.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e4220	Thank you. Mr Firlinger has the floor now.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e4236	Mr. Federal Minister! It is known to you that the ÖBB workshops are in default with the delivery of the 240 double-stock wagons from the Lower Austrian local transport financing agreement. This has led to major problems and annoyance before the summer in particular in shuttle traffic. What is the reason, Mr Federal Minister, that the ÖBB workshops have come together, and what do you intend to do to ensure that the ÖBB fulfils its contractual obligations in the future in a timely manner?
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e4251	Please answer me, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e4266	Deputies! In contrast to accepting your question, I do not know this fact. It is only known to me that the ÖBB has taken over more wagons for processing and finishing than it corresponds to the capacity of the workshops. However, this is not a reduction in the planned extradition of wagons for Lower Austrian use.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e4282	We have thus dealt with the second issue – transport policy. We're coming back to the science field. Please, Mrs Schaffenrath.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e4300	Mr President. Mr. Minister! My question is: 218/M What measures have you taken to ensure that the federal states will have their obligations in accordance with § 96 para. 1a to 1b of STVO actually comply?
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e4327	Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e4343	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In fact, the road traffic regulations are set out in § 96 para. 1b provide an annual reporting of the national governments in respect of those roads which have particular accident situations. It is also a report which should identify the measures which may be considered as accident prevention measures have been taken there. It is also necessary to report on the implementation and impact of these measures at the latest two years thereafter. One point I would like to make today on the occasion of your question is that there are at least two federal states that do so in a particularly exemplary way: those are the federal states of Tyrol and Lower Austria, and I can only invite the other federal states to follow this example, which is exemplary. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] However, we also contact the other federal states, we regularly contact all federal states on these issues, and we also make, discuss and develop proposals for improvements to the reports you have referred to in these discussions. Furthermore, I have ordered my place of business to motivate all the national governments to submit reports on this subject in accordance with the example of Lower Austria and Tyrol. On the occasion of the next Transport Reference Conference, the representatives of my section will be able to take up the issue as an agenda item and discuss it again because it is necessary to try to raise the level as long as this level of quality, which the two states I have mentioned, is not reached by all.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e4376	Thank you. .....................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e4391	Minister! As a Tyrolean, I am of course pleased that the federal state of Tyrol is at least reporting, but we also know that Tyrol does not comply with the RVS Directive. I am particularly concerned about how They want to ensure that it will no longer happen in the future that the other federal states do not submit or submit these reports by failing to comply with these RVS directives.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e4407	Please, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e4422	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The main reason is that we agree with the representatives of the countries concerned in very intensive discussions which have been held with regard to the case-by-case arguments. It is about winning the countries for it. Formal means do not appear to be useful or useful.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e4437	Next supplementary question: Mrs Binder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e4453	Minister! In the context of increased road safety, with the reduction in the number of accidents, I would like to ask you whether you also believe that more circular traffic in Austria, especially in the case of local entrances, should be forced.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e4468	Federal Minister, please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e4483	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Experience with the establishment of circular traffic has been largely positive and shows that circular traffic, particularly in the case of local entrances, is appropriate to significantly reduce the speed of entry of vehicles entering the area. It should be noted that the concrete structural implementation of some circular traffic is still to be desired, but in principle, the increased conception of circular traffic instead of traffic lights, and in particular the settlement of urban traffic, is proved to be extremely useful for reducing accidents and, in particular, for reducing serious or even fatal accidents.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e4508	Thank you. – Mrs Madl, please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e4523	Federal Minister! With regard to the implementation of laws in your department, which was actually the core of this third question, it is to be said that there are still some laws Its place of business is not to be executed. I mean, for example, the implementation of the new Novelle driving licence, which we decided in July, namely, the fire brigade licence to be issued by regulation. The firearms still await the implementation of this law and the decree you have to adopt. I'm asking you now: When to Become Do you implement this law and adopt the corresponding regulation to ensure that this fire brigade is implemented?
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e4541	Federal Minister, please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e4557	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) They know that not least have I counted among the defenders for this fire brigade leader's license. I therefore find it extremely important to implement this matter as quickly as possible. However, there has been the need for even more detailed contacts with some of the federal states, because, for me, the discussion on the question of what a fire brigade is has emerged. However, we are just ahead of putting this regulation into effect.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e4572	Thank you. – Mr Kukacka, please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e4587	Federal Minister! I come back to the question put by Mrs Schaffenrath. Before the summer, the National Council adopted a resolution calling on the Minister of Transport to negotiate with the countries in order to set up a Commission, each federal state, covering the accident areas and verifying their impact on road safety, and to set up an accident coordination body in the Ministry of Transport, which analyses the accident priorities to be remedied and incorporates them in a federal plan with appropriate priorities. Has such negotiations already taken place with the countries on the establishment of these Commissions? What about the countries? And has this accident coordination agency already been set up in the Ministry of Transport?
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e4606	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e4621	Deputies! The first contacts with the countries have already taken place, it is only because, as you yourself know, this resolution of the National Council has been adopted relatively shortly before the summer break, so that I assume that we will find the necessary agreement with the federal states during the autumn and will also create the place to be set up in my place of business. The job in my department does not require any special effort, because it is a function that we already have in the relevant group of the resort.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e4639	Thank you. – Mr Wabl, please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e4655	Federal Minister! I think it is beyond dispute for all political groups that rail transport is much safer than road transport. In all political statements, of whomever, the priority of the rail is always required in front of the road. The expansion of railway infrastructure has not only ecological advantages, but also enormous advantages in terms of transport policy. How do you now see in your success report that, in just these minutes, Mrs Klasnic, with Mr Farnleitner's Minister of Economic Affairs, is doing the groundwork for the road tunnel at Semmering, while a project of infrastructure for the railway, for which rail is blocked for party-political reasons under the title of ecology, while there are no objections to the road tunnel and the greens are on lost posts in this regard?
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e4670	Mr Federal Minister, it is left to you whether you can answer the question and whether you want to and can establish a link to the road transport regulations. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e4685	Mr President. In fact, this additional remark presents me with some challenges. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You will exist!]] I'm going to try to say nothing but material: Mrs Landeshauptfrau is not at all in favour of the development of the railway infrastructure towards Styria, but rather as a partner. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Good woman!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: On the contrary!]] As far as the position of the Greens is concerned, I am surprised by your question because I feel that the Greens are not really fans of a railway extension towards Styria, but perhaps I have been questioned there.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e4758	The 4th. Question Time: Mr Ddr. Decliner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e4792	Federal Minister! My question is...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e4808	Wait a minute, Member of the Dutch! I must invite Mr Wabl to take his place. [[Abg. Wabl takes his place.]] He's done that in the meantime. Please, Mr Niederweiser.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e4829	He only had to digest that. – Minister of State! My question is: 211/M What are the consequences of the "Paris Declaration" of the Education Ministers of France, Germany, Great Britain and Italy, especially with regard to the introduction of a Baccalaureate in Austria?
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e4859	Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e4875	Deputies! The declaration by the four ministers of science and education, namely France, Germany, Italy and Great Britain, which has so-called Sorbonne Declaration, as you know, has no legal binding character. It aims to develop a common European university that allows for joint and comparable degrees and, moreover, allows students to complete their studies without losing time in several European countries. Austria supports the intention contained in this declaration. However, as you know, we are currently in the middle of the process of implementing the reforms of the University Study Act, and the universities are particularly committed to developing the new study plans. I have therefore decided not to put an additional reform order in another direction in parallel with these efforts, but to enter into concrete discussions with the rectors at the autumn rectors' conference in October to see how the implementation of the study plans can be implemented in parallel or integrated into some of the areas on which this concept is concerned. I believe that we should ensure that universities are not overwhelmed by the reform process. It is a question of consistently implementing the one process aimed at streamlining the studies, helping to ensure that students are able to complete their studies in an appropriate time, and in so far as this is consistent with the second objective I support in principle, which I say very explicitly, and which is combined with the objective of European standardisation, we will try to do so. However, this requires very close cooperation with the universities themselves.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e4896	Thank you. – Additional question? - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e4911	Federal Minister! Do you think that we will have concrete legislative measures in about two years, so that the universities wishing to do so can also enter into implementation?
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e4927	Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e4942	Yes.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e4957	Thank you. – Additional question? – Mr Dr Graf, please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e4973	Federal Minister! Is this Paris Declaration in agreement with the universities, and is it not an intervention in their autonomy? A second additional question: Mr Federal Minister, you have, in essence, always taken action to ensure that the academic degrees are unified. Don't you also see a contradiction in the designation of degrees – even from your ideological point of view?
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e4991	Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e5006	Deputies! Sorbonne's statement has no legal character at all, but it is a statement of intent by four ministers of science and education, mentioned by me, aimed at achieving a unification of the European university system and the diplomas achieved there. I note: In terms of content, I share this view, because I believe it is useful for Europe to become more integrated, because it is a common basis that allows graduates of such university studies to have better opportunities for work in all European countries without any question of recognition. As far as participation in university autonomy is concerned, we have already discussed the question of the competence of the National Council to regulate certain matters, and I believe that the framework conditions for university life will continue to be decided by the Austrian Parliament. The universities are granted autonomy in their interior design. But also the University Study Act is undoubtedly a matter to be decided upon by the National Council.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e5028	Thank you. – Mr Amon, please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e5043	Federal Minister! What post-secondary education institutions exist in Austria, which are comparable and internationally recognized with a Baccalaureate degree, namely those relating to colleges or university courses?
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e5058	Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e5074	Deputies! The technical colleges have a degree which goes beyond the Baccalaureate. They also have the right to take part in a doctoral studies at universities. Since the training period is also four years, it exceeds that for the Baccalaureate. There is therefore no direct comparability between these degrees or between the qualifications which can be obtained in the context of university courses. That is what it is all about now is to see where appropriate approaches are already available to develop the Baccalaureate, or to see whether certain courses of study are not particularly suitable, to be developed also in the context of the implementation of the University Study Act in a way that allows for a Baccalaureate intermediate degree.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e5092	Thank you. – Additional question: Mrs Dr. Moser.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e5107	Minister! There is no doubt that medium-sized studies are very important. However, I still have detailed discussions and detailed discussions before the start of my studies. Question No, by Mr Bundesminister: What's going to be You are doing so that guidance is improved for students in particular, and – second question – what will you do to make better provision for the changeover opportunities during your studies?
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e5123	Please, the Rules of Procedure are expressly referring to an additional question. If you want to pack something second, please do not explicitly say "second question". [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e5147	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I understand your question in such a way that it is about the question of the transition from one training opportunity to another, and I understand it as a question. It is a question of ensuring, on the one hand, that, in schools, a detailed and subject-oriented information on the possibilities of a university or vocational education or other training courses is provided for further qualification at the final stage, i.e. before the matura, because it is urgently necessary to come up with a material and also information of the students, which is also part of the other training institutions – not least because of this, in order to help solve the existing technical and natural science-oriented scepticism of many students by means of material information. We have a clear lack of relevant students and, above all, graduates. As far as the studies themselves and the transfer possibilities within them are concerned, it is about creating a minimum level – if you want – of standardisation and interfaces. The Baccalaureate, which was discussed earlier, would also be a possibility.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e5168	Thank you. – Mrs Dr Gredler, please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e5184	Federal Minister! The Liberal Forum has already submitted a motion for a resolution before the summer aimed at transferring the competence to set up and design short studies or intermediates. You, Mr Minister, said that the study commissions would be overloaded with this addition during the establishment of the study contents. My question now is: Could you imagine that at least those commissions of study who believe that they can still cope with this effort are entrusted to it?
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e5202	Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e5217	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I have already said in reply to another supplementary question that I would like to start by talking to the institutional representatives of the universities in order to clarify the extent to which opportunities are seen to link the current reform process with an even more ongoing one. I therefore do not wish to make any further commitments or changes before this discussion.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e5233	Thank you. The next question is put by Mrs Dr. Moser.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e5248	Federal Minister! My question is: 217/M What specific individual measures are to be taken? Are you leading up to the end of the legislative period against the exorbitant increase in road freight traffic, especially on the Brenner's transit route?
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e5275	Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e5291	First of all, Mrs Doctor, I would like to stress that not only now, but also so far, for many years, the Austrian transport policy has been focusing on the problem of a sustainable transport organisation and also on solving the increasing problems on the Brenner transit route, with the aim of organizing transport in a way that is not only acceptable and acceptable to the environment but also to the neighbouring countries. We are in the process of continuing this policy. Let me mention at least some of these points. We have, for example, invested heavily in the expansion of the railway in recent years. In recent years, Austria alone has invested some 100 billion schilling in the modernisation or expansion of the railway infrastructure. We will invest an average of 13 billion schilling per year in railway expansion in the next few years. I think that this is a very remarkable development, which should help to improve the conditions necessary for the relocation of road transport to the railways or, in some cases, to create new ones. We have established and maintain comprehensive support measures aimed at strengthening combined transport. This is both a pre- and post-mortem benefit and a benefit compensation, a recognition of driving time as a rest period and similar things more. All these measures help to ensure that transport takes place on the road instead of on the road. We have incurred considerable expenditure in the field of public service charges to promote combined transport, because we believe that this is an intelligent form of intermodal handling of transport. We have started a special action on the rolling country road this year – with which I come to speak specifically to the Brenner – and this action is particularly successful. Through this special action, we have not only increased the utilization of the rolling land road on the route from Brennersee towards Germany and vice versa from 70 percent to over 90 percent, but have also significantly increased the train frequency. As a result, we have been able to increase the number of shipments by 32 percent: It's about traffic that happened on the street before. Transport of more than 100 000 trucks has therefore been added to the rail. I think that this is a very significant contribution. Another contribution is the introduction of the absolute ban on night-time driving for emission problems, for the loudest and most environmentally problematic trucks. I do not want to continue this list of contributions indefinitely now, but it could easily be referred to as more examples. In any case, all these measures contribute significantly to the fact that the transport situation in Austria is significantly more favourable compared to that in other countries or that, for example, the proportion of rail freight in total freight transport in Austria is significantly higher than in most other European countries, except Sweden. A brief reference to the ecopoint system: The introduction of the ecopoints system and the conversion of the ecopoints system to electronic debiting have made a remarkable contribution to the reduction of pollutants. Of course, the introduction of the ecopoint system has not significantly reduced the number of journeys, but the extent of pollution, pollution emissions, because this control has succeeded in causing the receivers to acquire environmentally friendly and modern trucks. I admit, however, that I too would be happy if we were to get even more of the environmentally friendly trucks on the rails. We do everything in our power standing for it. The informal Transport Council of the European Transport Ministers has also recently set very clear emphasis in this direction in Feldkirch. I assume that we will also be able to take appropriate decisions at European level at formal meetings which are still ahead of us during the autumn.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e5331	Thank you. – Additional question? Please, Mrs. Dr. Moser.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e5346	Minister! Their list of measures covered the past, but my question was in the future. I'm asking you now: What measures will be taken Are you still setting up within the framework of this legislative period? The measures put in place have not been able to prevent some growth in road freight, up to 90% and even up to 160 percent, and have also been achieved in the meantime, i.e. in the past. That is to say, it is now about introducing measures for the future by autumn 1999.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e5362	Federal Minister, please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e5377	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The nature of the question implies that it would be possible, by means of the miracle means which we are now taking until the election, not only to ensure the success of the Social Democrats, but also, so to speak, to solve the transport problem in a final way. This is an illusion that I cannot give in as Minister of Transport. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) What it is all about is to continue the measures that we have seen to date as the basic concept of our transport policy and which have been extremely effective, and to ensure that traffic is increasingly shifted to the rails. I told you, of course, that investment in the railway infrastructure is a major contribution to this. We have made such investments in the past, but it is necessary to continue them, and we will continue them.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e5395	Thank you. – Additional question: Mr Barmüller.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e5411	Federal Minister! There is a miracle drug already, and it has also been addressed more often by you, and the cost truth is also for truck traffic. Since, Mr Federal Minister, the crucial question is – and I would like to know your personal opinion, because you are also a man of concrete facts: To what extent do you think the price per lorry kilometer should rise so that we can finally take a substantial step towards cost-truth between truck transport and rail transport?
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e5426	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e5441	Deputies! The question of the truth of costs in road transport or generally in the transport sector is a matter which requires the common European decision. In the informal Transport Council in Feldkirch, we have agreed in a uniform way that we want to move in this direction. It must be noted that any additional load of truck traffic to be taken is going in the right direction. It is not about achieving the final result today, but about taking steps in the right direction, and we are also determined at European level.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e5457	Thank you, Minister. Mr Edler, please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e5472	Estimated Minister of State! I would also like to address the cost-effectiveness of transport. I regret that we have not implemented this, although we have decided to do so by law. My specific question is: When do you expect us to finally introduce road pricing for heavy-duty truck traffic?
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e5487	Federal Minister, please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e5503	Mr President, you know that I am not the Minister responsible for the implementation of road pricing. I know from the Minister responsible for Economic Affairs that he is planning – and he has already given the appropriate orders to ASFINAG – to implement the introduction of road pricing by the year 2001. This is also the time when the German Federal Government plans to do so, and it is also assumed that this objective will remain independent of the outcome of the German elections.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e5518	Thank you, Minister. – Mr Nußbaumer, please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e5533	Mr President. Minister! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that a number of measures have been put in place in the area of rail transport, which will improve. On the other hand, at the transport conference in Feldkirch, you have shown the dramatic downward trend in the area of rail transport, and the Commission has noted in this context that a 160 per cent increase in cross-border road freight traffic will occur on the higher-level network by 2010. My question relates to the sensitive zones. They have led the Brenner crossing as a sensitive zone – that is undoubtedly right – but also all other Alpine crossings and the access roads, such as the Rheintal motorway, which will be of importance especially after completion of the motorway Munich – Lindau or Würzburg – Lindau. My question is: Are you willing to recognise the entire high-level road network of Austria as a sensitive zone and enforce it in the new Road Costs Directive?
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e5552	Please have a reply.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e5567	Deputies! The willingness of Austrian transport ministers has so far not been lacking when it comes to implementing further measures aimed at sustainability and environmental protection, for example, in the European Road Costs Directive. As you know, however, the decision on the Road Costs Directive is a decision that must be taken by all 15 transport ministers. What we have achieved, including in the discussions in Feldkirch, is a much broader consensus than he has so far existed, in the circle of the European transport ministers, to seek to impose a much stronger tax burden on road transport that is harmful to the environment. It will now be necessary to see whether this informally expressed willingness will be implemented in formal decisions during the autumn. My willingness to do so is given. We will therefore put on the agenda the Road Costs Directive and the increase in the tariffs provided for there in autumn, during the Austrian Presidency.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e5585	Thank you, Minister. – Mrs Horngacher asks a question.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e5601	Minister! Do you stick to the plans to extend the beautification at the expense of the Tyrolean economy – because for these it would really be a massive distortion of competition – to the Unterinntal? It must be said that this is, of course, a major shift from transport to federal and national roads.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e5616	Please, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e5631	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I insist that I consider a political solution to the Brennermaut problem to be more appropriate than a judicial one. And I insist that it is necessary to find a solution which is beyond any doubt as to discrimination. You claim in your request that discrimination against the Tyrolean economy should be feared. At present, that cannot be the point. Whether this is a problem in the other direction or not, we are fighting before the European Court of Justice. If we lose there, there is not only a disadvantage for the Tyrolean economy, but also for all the Tyroleans, and this must be borne in mind when looking for a solution.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e5650	Thank you many times, Minister of State. We have therefore also dealt with this issue. Question Time is thus over. Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e5674	I should like to make it clear that the Members of this House are Heide Schmidt and Comrades have asked for the written request of Dr. Heide Schmidt, Mag. Helmut Peter, Dr. Volker Kier and partners in the Federal Minister for Finance on overdue trend change at the tax rate are urgently to be treated. Under the terms of the Rules of Procedure, this urgent question will be called at 3 p.m. Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e5698	I would also like to say that Mr Haigermoser has requested that the Economic Committee report on Amendment No 589/A (E) by Mr Prinzhorn and Mr Comrades on the discharge of Austrian training establishments and the promotion of teaching be limited to 17. In December, the Council adopted a decision on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Moldova on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Macedonia on the one part, and the European Economic Community, of the other part, on the other hand, on the conclusion of an Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Macedonia on the one part, and the Republic of Macedonia on the other hand, on the other hand, on the conclusion of an Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Macedonia on the one part, and the European Economic Area, on the other In this context, there is a desire to hold a short debate on this deadline request. For the purposes of those provisions which are known to you, this short debate will be held after the end of the debate on the urgent question. Aside from the 24 hour lead-in period
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e5723	In order to be able to negotiate item 8 of today's agenda, it is in accordance with § 44 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure required to waive the 24-hour deadline for the submission of the Committee's report. It is the report of the Immunities Committee on the request of the National Criminal Court in Vienna for approval of the official persecution of the honourable Member to the National Council Dr. Jörg Haider (1398 of the Supplements). The National Council must be on top of that, with a majority of two-thirds. I therefore ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to the removal from the time limit for the Committee's report, to give a sign on this matter. – This has happened with the required two-thirds majority, and we will therefore proceed in this sense. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e5750	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 to the written communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e5904	I have the proposal to summarise the debate on points 2 to 5 of today's agenda. On the other hand, are objections raised? - That's not the case. Then we'll do that. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e5926	I can now go into the agenda. In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the duration of the debates as follows: A day-block speaking time of 9 "Vienna hours" is provided for, which gives rise to the following speaking times: SPÖ 135 minutes, ÖVP 126 minutes, Freedom 117 minutes, Liberal Forum and Greens per 81 minutes. The Hoge Haus has to be on top of that. On the other hand, are there any objections? This is not the case. This proposal was therefore adopted unanimously. 1. Point Report of the Cultural Committee on the 1996 Art Report of the Federal Government (III-130/1331 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e5962	We come to item 1 of the agenda. I do not have a wish for oral reporting. We are going into the debate immediately. I call Mr Krüger. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e5992	Mr President. Mr State Secretary – in absence, but he's not far, I've seen him before. I assume that he will enter the plenary session immediately. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! On the agenda is the 1996 Art Report, i.e. the 1996 Report on Responsibility for Federal Art Promotion, which was a responsibility of the former Minister of Art Scholten. I think it is not a plausible thing to say that this art report is 1996 – I emphasize: it is not really about the art report 1997 but 1996 – the old coffee that has been lost. What is to be discussed today about the content of the 1996 art report when the people involved have already agreed on the subject of politics? However, I think it is legitimate to deal with what has changed since, since the end of, as I believe, the unscrupulous era of Scholten/Pastärk, in the cultural policy of the government parties and in particular in the cultural policy of the SPÖ. First of all, the persons involved have changed. Mr. Bundeskanzler Klima has declared art to be the chief cause. Ladies and gentlemen! This experiment to explain the art matter in the sense of deepening the nationalization as the principal thing has failed. This is a finding that is not only presented by the "evil" liberties, but that is a general finding across all social spectra in our Republic of Austria. The acting persons are not only the German Chancellor's climate, but also the State Secretary, and it is certainly not evil if I say that the two gentlemen, that is climate and Wittmann, have been noticed since the acquisition of their competences rather by unscrupulous formulations about art and about art-makers. For example, only a few months ago, on the occasion of an event, the art chancellor asked the present ladies and gentlemen to come to the Federal Chancellery and see the "Roland Rainers". And he confused Leon Askin with Bruno Gironcoli. Only recently have I been a witness to a remarkable Freudian promise of the Federal Chancellor. It was at the opening event of the Salzburg Festival, when the Federal Chancellor said: "Art is a laboratory that constantly produces new ex cremente." [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] – Dear ladies and gentlemen! To what extent the affair of Kolig has played a certain role in Carinthia, I now leave your imagination behind. That is what colleagues of mine will come to talk about today. I would just like to say quite generally on this subject: I would also like to comment on these questions here. And if one says that the population is not ready to enter direct democracy as regards art issues, I think it is a real respectability to the population to say: An elite – regardless of whether it is a pseudo-target or an actual intellectual elite – has to be on his own, and we do not care about it, and it does not matter to the taxpayer what its tax millions are provided for. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And that they say: For God's sake, art must not become the subject of public debate, it is a ban on discussion!, that is, against which we liberals keep us. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Wittmann, too, is more slipping than a step over the smooth Wiener Parkett, which was still "washed" by Scholten and Patercht. All in all, therefore, is the finding that neither the opposition of art and cultural policy can gain something in human terms, nor the representatives of their own ranks, from so-called intellectuality. Well, what has changed about the contents? – I come back again to the unspoiled era Scholten/Pastärk. The stereotype sentence of Mrs. Paterk was: Art is our ideology resort, through which you can transport certain things. And Mr Scholten, for example on the occasion of national elections, has carried out chain letter campaigns. He has tried to instrumentalize artists and, in the sense of his policy – against a democratic and necessary change in the Republic of Austria – to create a policy of fear What has changed since then? – Actually not very much, except that the persons acting do not have the same virtuosity in the presentation of their arguments. For example, Mr State Secretary, and I would like to ask you: If earlier Mr. Kunstminister Scholten abused the opening of the Salzburg Festival for his party purposes, for the party purposes of SPÖ, and for a few minutes has been against the liberal opposition, then your contributions, Mr. Kunst State Secretary, for example in Linz at the opening of the Bruckner Festival, may be, in rhetorical terms, a meagre banishment, but it is exactly the same concept. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It's exactly the same concept! They continue to abuse the political stage. They abuse – mainly financed by taxpayers – opening speeches to make the free opposition worse. [[Puppets with the liberals.]] What else has changed? . I think that your attacks against the liberal opposition are nothing but distractions. And now I am addressing the ÖVP, which made a thunderstorm sound at the beginning of the summer when it came to occupying the four prominent positions of commercial directors. Now Mr. Khol puts his head down and doesn't want to hear about it. Mr Khol! Come on. It goes out and repeat what you accused your coalition partner at the time, namely that the SPÖ misuses the workmanship or the occupation of the posts for its purposes to accommodate political artists. That's a fact! Come on. Get out! I am also eager to say what Mr Morak, who was then rightly excited about this, will say about it today. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That's what actually changed: There has been a deepening of the claim of social democracy to the positions which art policy has to give. This is a "beautiful" cultural policy! You want to accommodate your people. Of four commercial directors, three are speaking and writing three former secretaries of ministers. [[Call to the liberals: Unbelievable!]] And because you didn't spend one – because he laid a millionpleite in Salzburg and was chased away with sniper and mockery – he is employed in a different form, as a consul at the Volksoper. That's what we blame you for: That you abuse cultural policy on the one hand to instrumentalize the artists against the FPÖ, and on the other hand that you want to accommodate your people and connect the network as closely as possible and as closely as possible in the sense of your ideology. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But I also do not want to hide and comment on the very sensitive discussion about the boundaries of art. These boundaries have moved a large part of the Austrian population very deeply, because of the mystery games that Mr Nitsch has organised in Prinzendorf. Ladies and gentlemen! I certainly do not belong to those who reject Mr. Nitsch by balance or even as an artist and reject his artistic activity. [[Abg. Smolle: What does "per balance" mean?- Oh, my God!]] Mr Nitsch certainly has his place in actionism, which has been emphasized once. I have very differentiated access to it. But this cannot be done, and I do not understand that in the sense of the supposedly limitless freedom of the culture of animal welfare, for example, cattle are being slaughtered ritually, because art is based on a free letter. That is not how it can be done, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Smolle: What does "per balance" mean? What does that mean?- Oh, my God!]] I say quite frankly to you – with all the partly real appreciation of Mr Nitsch's oeuvre – that I am very concerned when, in a folding interview, Mr Nitsch speaks about the fact that crime can also be art. I would like to hear your opinion, Mr Cap. What do you say? Art can also be a crime, says Nitsch. And in the end, he goes on to say that theoretically murder can also be art. I'm warning you... [[Abg. Smolle: What does "per balance" mean?- Oh, my God!]] Mr Smolle! You obviously have little intellectually in common with that Mr Smolle, who recently wrote a very interesting article in the press. He wrote that this was the marketing instrument. Is this your son or your brother? I don't know. [[Abg. Smolle: The aunt!]] - Oh, that's it. Mr. Smolle is the aunt of Mr. Smolle. You have a lot of comical position in there, not just what your constant change between the parties is about. What are you, anyway? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] What is that sector where you sit? Is this the liberal or the green sector? I don't know where you are right now, but you're very popular, anyway. [[Lively calls to the Liberal Forum.]] But, of course, Mr. Smolle is right to say that this is the methodology, how one operates today in art marketing: by consciously provoking a scandal by deliberately breaking Tabus and then publicly exciteing the result of provocation. [[Abg. Smolle: By balance!]] For example, those who have heard or seen the interviews with Nitsch during the mystery games know how they have said cunningly: Well, all of this serves to increase my market value! – He consciously applied himself to it. Of course, he deliberately provoked to create a storm of indignation in Austria and to increase his awareness. But whoever is provoking today must not be surprised at the fact that his art, art, and art itself are being valued. I am here with Mr Rudolf Burger, the rector of the University of Applied Art, who says: Art is free, but the artist is a citizen and, as such, has the same rights and obligations as anyone else in a liberal democracy. If he agrees on this political game, he must play it according to his rules. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Art is free for me. It is part of the fundamental rights, but essentially of an overall structure of fundamental rights. And art must not take on its own fundamental rights at the expense of other fundamental rights and undermine these other fundamental rights in favour of art. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I come to the position of the Austrian People's Party to address the dual position of the Austrian People's Party. It has already been said to you yesterday, Mr Khol, that, for example, the ministries occupied by your group have made a great contribution to Mr Otto Mühl. Not only was Mr Otto Mühl able to exhibit in the Museum of Applied Art his port images, which were fabricated during the execution of his prison sentence, in other words, in a museum subject to Mrs Gehrer, but also the Minister Schüssel, the Foreign Minister, under the grateful assistance of Mrs. State Secretary at 800 000 s, helps to finance a travelling exhibition through Europe to Mr. Nitsch, referring to a picture that Mother Teresa shows in the well-known presentation. Mr Khol! Why Do Not Hide You're talking about this? Why don't you get the speaker's seat and make a comment on it? – Or you, Mr Steindl, because I am currently receiving your APA message from 7. August in front of me. Mr Steindl is deeply upset by the mystery games of Mr Nitsch. He says that these orgies are not only animal and human contempt, but also an insult to the many artists in our country. He will be working in the National Council to ensure that such unsavory spectacles are not promoted by public means, Steindl announced. Many artists should also make public statements and also challenge this attempt at an artistic representation. For me – and I must say that too – a Mr Mühl is not to be equated with a Mr. Nitsch. Mr Nitsch did not deserve to be equated with someone who has committed a seven-year sentence for moral offences against children. For me, Mr Mühl's art, particularly in connection with blasphemous representations of the mother Theresa, is certainly an even more annoyed occasion to intervene here, Mr Steindl! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I am anxious to see what you say from the ÖVP that the ministries in your field of influence are massively promoting Mr Otto Mühl as a person. I just need to look at the answer to the question in which Mr Schüssel writes: Internationally, it is common for foreign ministers or other competent authorities to support works of fine art in foreign tours. [[Abg. May. Steindl: Do you think Mühl or Nitsch?]] – So the well-known image of Mr. Mühl, this ominous triptych with the perverted representation about the mother Theresa, according to your Foreign Minister, is part of a "representative workshop". [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] Please explain here, Mr Steindl and Mr Khol: What do you say? It is not enough to appear here hypocritically against the urgent request because a blasphemous image of the Lord Mühl, which is the subject of the request, is presented, and that is not reasonable to the House. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreider: You are most holy!]] You can't put your head in the sand! Step out and take a position on this!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e6185	Mr Cap has now come to speak. I'm setting up a 10 minute speaking time, Mr. Deputies. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e6206	Mr President. High house! What honourable Members Krüger meant by the formulation of "so-called intellectuals" is obscene to me. I can only start with the formulation of "so-called cultural politician". His speech here was not a cultural contribution, but a kind of pity ritual, to which the so-called FPÖ cultural speaker repeatedly descends. If he had read the guest comment of Michael Sharang in the "Presse" or the guest comment of Professor Wagner on the events around Nitsch, he would, I think, be able to appreciate a little better that he himself has become a part of these niche activities. Scharang says it so beautifully in the introduction of his comment in the "Press" under the title "Nitsch, its protectors and its persecutors – a total work of art": Nitsch would not be imaginable if Krüger did not move to the stage here, in order to be ritually outraged by the ritual slaughter of a bull, in which obviously five carnivores took part, and an official to determine ritually that the ritual was completely in order in the bull and that it was not ritually, but normally baffled at 5.45 o'clock. And Nitsch stands down and explains this as a work of art. Now one can be of different opinion whether that is the case or not. I don't want to hide. I sometimes have my difficulties viewing him as a potential artist and myself as a potential buyer. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Say it honestly: Are you for it or against it?]] But it is insignificant in the discussion how my subjective attitude to this is. The fact is: Nitsch needs Krüger and Haider and Stadler and how all these nitsch-helpers are called in order to really convey and sell his works of art to a wider public. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] – I am convinced that Nitsch’s letter of thanks to you has also gone down. A few remarks because you yourself complained about the intellectual aspect of the debate. I don't know if you can start with this term at all. You probably added the term "intellectual" for self-protection. A special form of discussion with Nitsch, of course, has been chosen by the good Landesrat Schimanek. He did not stand up and tried an art criticism or a cultural-political debate with Nitsch, but he simply and simply began to harass him. He began to deal with him from a very different point of view by asking the district captain in charge, where these famous mystery games were to take place, and then finally he asked for them. So he wanted to feel a little bureaucratic about whether there are not quite different methods to ban the niche. That didn't happen to say: I want to practice censorship! or: I don't want this niche, this provocateur! or: Look, we are the only clean cultural politicians against this art dirt, which, of course, only the Social Democrats and the ÖVP, the government speaks, the majority parties, protect! His inquiries were interesting. Just Schimanek, who now has to deal with Rosenstingl and Co in Lower Austria and with all this Augiasstall, the Stadler and Haider could certainly report here for hours if they wanted to! One question was: What is the version of the Senkguben? – I understand that Schimanek, as one who has to deal with the FPÖ-Lower Austria, is interested in the location of the Senkguben. [[Cheerfulness with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Or, what's interesting, too: Is there a density certificate for the semi-trailers? – I particularly understand that the sanierer of the FPÖ-Nederösterreich has been able to deal with the density of the mustard pits, whether there is nothing bubbling out, no matter what, nothing is going on, nothing has been sifting out! Or: Do the Senkgruben or the wastewater disposal for the event or castle at all comply with the Water Law Act? – I understand perfectly! What must be of particular interest to him, because it concerns so many: How many toilet facilities are available to the guests of the event? Does the number correspond to the statutory hygiene regulations? – I totally understand that the Schimanek hygiene regulations are too interesting. He is confronted with the question of hygiene every day and with the question: How many toilet facilities do I have, so that how many people stay there when they have to? And there, where he has to be, obviously many have to be. Therefore, the question of toilet facilities is a particularly important question to deal with. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the SPÖ and with representatives of the ÖVP.]] The fifth question: How many wash-ins – something that is quite significant, if you have to wash your hands in innocence or if someone has to be washed or washed up – are there for the guests? [[The speaker rubs his hands]] And do these also comply with the statutory hygiene regulations? [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: "Hochgeist"!]] And last but not least, the very crucial question: How is the wastewater disposed of by the washing plants? – I particularly understand that Mr Schimanek is thinking when the His own hands have washed themselves, where the wastewater flows, because that is probably special waste. There you must be very careful about what happens to it! [[Sociability and applause at SPÖ and Abg. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no!]] This is the form of the discussion of art and culture of a leading representative of the FPÖ in Lower Austria, who is based in the state government. It's horrible how you're holding this art debate here. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: How you lead them, that's horrendous!]] And it's a shame, I say again. You can't do this like that by saying: My God, the 1996 art report, that's all shed milk – what's this? I believe that this is an exemplary, new, interesting art report, which stands in continuity with the previous reports, which, through graphics, allows for a summing introduction, that within a short period of time, one really gets an overview that you really know what the political decisions are in the background, why art promotion happens as it happens. There is no detective work, as has sometimes been the case so far, necessary to find out more precisely. There is no official language, there has not been a threatening linguistic disguise, but clear figures indicate: Here's a theatre budget, here's a music budget. It is therefore quite possible to see exactly how art policy in Austria is to be estimated. I believe that this is a quantum leap, and it is not clear enough how important it is that there is an art report in this new form.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e6325	The next speaker is Mrs Dr Schmidt. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e6346	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! The Federal Chancellor has declared cultural policy the chief thing before, as is known and as always quoted. I'm holding it for the time being: The Federal Chancellor has not yet appeared in the Committee on Culture to discuss with the representatives responsible for cultural policy. I'll hold on to this. The Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany has not even appeared here in the House for a debate on culture, in order to express his ideas on cultural policy from the government bank and to enter into a debate with us. I note that the "cultural curator", as he calls himself, does not even deal with cultural artists, perhaps privately, I do not know, publicly at least, unless it is about opening festivals. If this is the idea of cultural policy, it speaks a clear language. I therefore note, for the time being, that the concept of "Cultural policy is the principal thing" has to be declared a failure. – That seems to me to be an important observation. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Secondly, We are talking today about a report that has only one disadvantage for me, and this disadvantage is that it has been submitted too late. We are talking today about a report from 1996 and that is really a point of order. What else is this? I would like to put this disadvantage at the top of my remarks, because I would like to turn to the benefits. As we know from us, we do not operate opposition policy for the sake of opposition, but then, if we consider it necessary, and we do not want to say something positive if we feel it is worth being mentioned. This cultural report, or this type of cultural report, is worth mentioning positively. We have repeatedly called for the report to be made more transparent and more informative. My impression or my assessment of this report is that these requirements are now quite justifiable. I believe that both the structure and the optical design and the transparency expressed make the report more informative. I would therefore like to thank you for taking these suggestions into account. Such a development should also be noted positively from the oppositional side of what I have done with it. It is clear from this report that various measures have been taken. I do not want to use the word "reform" in this context, because I believe that the word "reform" would be an euphemism for most. For each measure, such as grants and prices, to be tax-free: That was probably the most obvious thing that could happen at all. And the scurrile about it is only that the Finance Minister at his time has taxed the G’s layers and now could not be avoided in a new function in any case, in any case, exempting scholarships and prices from tax. A self-understanding – I just want to say that it happened at least. It is also a self-conception for me that the cultural creators – now again extended to 31. December 1999 – not covered by the ASVG and working on own insurance. I'm not asking you to do this positively, because if it didn't happen, it would be a scandal. It is bad enough that no results have been achieved in this work to this day. So I'm just saying that the worst could be turned away. Moreover, this has not been done out of the better understanding of the relevant Minister of State, but it has required the massive protest of the cultural creators themselves, with massive support from the Liberals. Only this has led to an understanding and said that the cultural creators will not yet be covered by the ASVG regulation and one will sit down to work on a new legal formation. So I would ask that this should not be said for itself, because it would be without the protest of the people concerned, of the cultural creators themselves, and of the opposition, more precisely: Sharing the opposition, not happening. I do not want to say much about the federal theatre reform now, because we have already discussed it on the basis of the bill. It should also be mentioned in connection with the presentation of this report. Some are good at it, some bad again. But I do not want to repeat the discussion, because I do not think it is compulsory practice. Now I'm coming to the Film Promotion Act. The Film Promotion Act has also been amended, and I believe that the novelle has gone in the right direction. A performance-oriented component, the so-called reference film promotion, has been introduced, and that is a good thing. It is also quite positive to say – just, please, do not make it so euphemistic again – that the funding amount was increased by 20 million schilling. That is, the federal funds were increased by 20 million schillings to 120 million schillings. That's quite positive, just: It is not worth noting that the film was announced on the one hand as a focus of cultural policy – I am going to talk about it – and on the other hand, it represents only 1.4% of the total budget for cultural expenditure. So where there should be a focus, I don't know! And it is inconceivable how this should actually happen, which is necessary not only to enable production, although there are also difficulties in production, as you know. Only recently have a few million missed for the most expensive film that has just been produced. But it is not only about production, but above all about the possibilities to have the films performed. And there's what you've done so far, just a crack and nothing serious. I would remind you that a recent meeting of European Ministers for Culture took place in Linz, where, as you know, it was a question of seeing culture and employment from a point of view, i.e. to pay attention to the incentives that could be used for the economy. Austria or the Austrian Chancellor does nothing about it. And, Mr State Secretary, I am committed to seeing good intentions with you, but I cannot see any action in this direction either. That is why I must say: It's lip confession and not anymore. It is not only a matter of looking abroad, but, as we all know, North Rhine-Westphalia is a prime example of what one can do from a region by using an industry. And I have to add: This is not only an employment policy, it is also a cultural concern. And what better can happen to us than that these two things – as in this case – are so wonderfully harmonious? We must consider what this means for jobs, what this means for infrastructure, and what it ultimately means for the importance of cultural policy and for its radiance. Nothing has happened in Austria, although you explained that you want to make the film industry a priority. I ask you: What are you doing to make Vienna or Austria a media location? Just give one example! Choose something! What, please, did you do in this direction? What to do You – when I talk about the film industry – are against the fact that these large multiplex cinema centers are being created at all corners and ends, both outside the cities and at the outskirts of the city, and that small cinemas have to be locked up more and more? What proposals have been made, what work of thought has been done in this department in order to stop it? This is not just a question of the distribution and lending monopoly, it is not only a question of an incentive system or also of a system, as the filmmakers themselves suggest, of a film schilling – as always you want to call it. I should like to point out that I am very much in favour of this, but I should like to talk about the form in which such incentives can be created, as can be achieved by retransmissions without any additional burden on the general public and thus an increase in the tax rate in this area in order to prevent the death of small cinemas. This is a serious issue. What have you been thinking about creating local incentives to obtain foreign companies as well? – None of it was perceived. I therefore ask myself: Do you really want us to know that the focus of film industry is that you are increasing the funding by 20 million, but otherwise you are not doing anything? You know exactly how little effect this will have if accompanying measures are not put in parallel. And this is an alibiding that can mean outcast money unless the conditions are created for the use of the funds not only to be made meaningfully but also to be lurked. Because I've been talking about the Multiplex Cinema Centers, it's a direct bridge to the next subject for me. With all that I think is a matter of considering, the urban aspect is very important. That is not something that is not your place of business, but quite the contrary! I have believed that we agree that architecture is managed not only in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, to which it is assigned – and that is also the evil in it – but, of course, is a very essential part of cultural policy. It should finally be understood that architecture – including urban planning – is a very important part of the cultural policy for which you also bear responsibility. And if you ask me, It would be right for me – if it were the appropriate person who is not in sight at the moment – for this area, this cultural and art area to be handled by an art chancellor, an art chancellor – please apologise, that was a promise – by an art minister or an art minister, and for the corresponding contexts to be established: What am I supposed to have infrastructural areas in a country, where do I want to set cultural accents, in what form do I want them to put, what do I want to allow? – Only then does one have the right to talk about putting a focus on architecture. So you promised us to put a focus on cultural policy in the film. You didn't keep that promise. I hold this, and I think it's an evil that you didn't think it was. It's a missed chance. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on Green MEPs.]] I am referring to the promotion of film! And you promised a second priority, and that's why I also struck this bridge, that's the architecture. You didn't do anything in this direction. While you have also made an increase in the budget by 20 million schilling, please do not stress again, God knows what that is if you do not create the conditions for it. I am aware that more money has been made available here too, but it does not have that importance that you always emphasize. If you believe that it is enough to create new art prizes, which I consider to be quite correct, then you are mistaken. I was very pleased about this: As you may know, we have set up the Kiesling Prize as an architectural prize, the highest-dominated one; and I am pleased that you have made a right decision from my point of view, namely Frank O. Gehry, for his museum in Bilbao. But this alone cannot be the focus of architecture for Austrian cultural policy, that one can create a prize and fortunately find the right prizewinners. Unfortunately, God has nothing to do with Austria, namely, incentives for us. What are you doing to enable contemporary architecture in Austria? I am of the opinion that the people concerned and the experts should be allowed to speak here, because it is impossible to say it better. Look at a comment from Wolf Prix from the group Coop-Himmelb(l)au. He's so right! He also comes to Austria via the example Bilbao and says: The Museum in Bilbao is not only a city-building masterpiece of a "crazy" architect, it is also the result of a happy cooperation – and this is the essential and therefore a cultural-political suspension – between architects, clients and city planners and proves that quality architecture is only possible with a quality contractor. - As far as the quote Prix. This is precisely the quality, Mr State Secretary, and I would like to address this to Mr Chancellor. – precisely this quality we demand, and we do not get it delivered from your political responsibility! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] When I look at how in Austria, how in Vienna is handled with projects! The museum quarter is a sad game on this question. The next game of mourning is the Mahnmehl. And what have we heard about the "Platte", what is possible at all? And Prix's right again when he says: Through widespread anti-innovation, the country is at risk of becoming a base of pragmatic innovation prevention. – There are many examples that prove and secure this very quote. And you're responsible for not doing anything about it! And so that you can enjoy it a little bit and because it also serves to relax and also meets the point, I would like to read to you what Wolf Prix continues to say – from Coop-Himmelb(l)au he is –: [[Abg. May. Posch: Where's he from?]] In Austria, conflict is confused with threat and prevention. - How true! That we do not have a culture of discussion, we know from other areas even more clearly. – And he continues to say: Here the six "p", and they're wonderful. The young person is only progressive, then through the circumstances he becomes programmatic, later pragmatic, then he is protected and further pragmatized, and thus he is retired. How right he is when he here draws the path of one, I say, engaged also cultural creators! We can transfer this to many areas, only there it hurts particularly. This is a description of the state and the state of our political reality, and you have to answer that nothing is contrary to it. This is, of course, particularly painful in the cultural field, and it is also in the architectural field, and in this context I have mentioned it, especially painful. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I wanted to make a bridge to the incentives that I think are necessary in cultural policy and also for improving the efficiency of cultural administration, and we will have to talk about them at another time, Mr State Secretary, because you have provided an example of a non-renewal of Parliament that is really looking for the same thing. I really want to call your answer to a written request from us as a chuzpe. This answer is a naughtiness, but we will come back to it in a different context. This question has been dealt with by the Foundation system, and you were certainly someone who was able to recover something from this foundation system, at least from the idea. It's nothing, anyway, I didn't notice anything. If you explain something to us now, I'll be glad about it. We believe that such a system of foundations could make cultural administration more flexible, make it narrower, make it more transparent that new sources of funding in the non-governmental area, in particular – and this is very important to me – could be opened up. What is a sense of ambiguity, namely, that of finally getting out of the camera list and providing for longer-term financial planning, is also best implemented with the foundation system, we believe, at least. And something else: It would be possible to implement ad hoc projects in a completely different way – or at all possible, because it is hardly possible at the moment. I ask you: How far have your thoughts gone? In the parliamentary question, you have told us "taste" on it, and I would be very attached if you could tell us a little more about it now. But I would like to say here that I would like to explain the further development of thoughts and, above all, the objective of a foundation system as an essential point of sound cultural policy. You have us, that's why the circle now closes for me, repeats – or was it the chancellor?I have to say, too, that he does not care about it anyway – a White Paper on cultural promotion promised. This White Paper on cultural promotion has been promised to us for the first time in May, and you have announced it in the Committee on Culture, if I remember correctly, for October. I don't know what stage it's at. I hope it's coming. I hope that Members in the Committee on Culture will share my opinion that a debate on this White Paper should be held at least on the current one. But I want more. I think it would make sense to organise a hearing or a survey here, with this reflective desire of a survey in itself not sympathetic to me, but we should consider in which circle and in what form it can best be discussed to finally come to guidelines here or, at least, to discuss the guidelines in cultural promotion, in art funding, because it is an essential building block for cultural policy. And I would like to make a suggestion – not for the first time – but it is important to me to do it here from the speaker's desk. In the Netherlands, there is a concept whereby, at the beginning of a legislative period, a four-year plan of cultural policy is presented. I would also like this to be done for us. I would like to see a longer-term programme set out in the guidelines, the priorities and the ideas for future cultural commitment by the responsible political party at the beginning of a legislative period. Then we would have the opportunity to discuss it in Parliament in the past, and we should not have to criticise something that has already been done after a report, in the meantime. This kind of dealing with Parliament is already in place in other parliaments, so it is not even something special. You only have to look at where it works better. I am afraid that you are against it only because you obviously do not have these guidelines, and that they do not exist, is not only complained by the opposition, but above all by the cultural creators themselves. And now I'm gonna tell you something: I think it is completely wrong when politicians believe that they have to have an art discussion, as Mr Cap has repeatedly done. This is not the task of politicians and politicians, but the task of cultural politicians is to talk about cultural policy rather than art, because otherwise we would all be the same in the way that we say: We don't have to decide what art is, but... And this But is not for politicians. Do we have the courage to say, even if one knows from which corners one will then be drawn the superiority, that about what art is, professionals should talk and a real art discussion should be reserved to the experts and not to the politicians. No human believes in being able to judge whether there is a medical error in art or not, except the doctors themselves. And in art we believe that everyone can speak with me. We should talk about cultural policy, but to judge what art is is not a matter of politicians.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e6412	I'm just paying attention: We have a technical defect here at the watch at the pult. But I'll set up time from above and check it out. Mrs Dr Schmidt, you have had 20 minutes of speech. Mrs Dr. Brinek, you have the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e6436	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I can leave out some of the remarks I have planned because they have already been made; I will join more or less where Mrs. Dr. Schmidt has concluded: Is there any experts, or can everyone express themselves on art? I would like to approach this question about the 3 "K": artists, experts, customers. Artist: Artist and excitement. The FPÖ has actually opened the art debate yesterday. – The topic is missing, but what is it? By the way, she put the summer under the general dictatorship "Sommertheater must be". She took out a biennial catalogue, the old one, of course. Landesrat Schimanek has taken the Event Regulation because he apparently did not know what the Biennial catalogue was. They have looked at "N" and found nitsch and, because the letter "M" is next to it, also immediately looked at Mühl. This means that we are in the year 1997: I think that a written request, if it is re-introduced in a word-identical way a year later, to make nothing better, just as a catalogue reception, a discussion on the catalogue will not be better if I repeat it a year later, even if I have worked on a whole year of misguided repeat and memory attempts and could have seen it, I should have left it. So: About art, I mean, should be spoken a little differently. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: To say so much about art without a content...!]] Listen, then you will recognize a content, or it depends on your competence! I think that a sentence can be said to Mühl and Nitsch, which summarizes the former conglomerate. A cultural critic said to many others: While the work of one has a right to the repertoire, that is to say, nitsch, the other has already migrated to the court cases over wide distances. – keyword: Mühl. Whether that is what Mr Mühl-Consulter, EU member of Sichrovsky, even as a cultural expert, I do not know, of course. It would also be interesting to hear his opinion on this. Second point: Knower. Artists don't fall from heaven, artists don't. I have the impression, and I agree with the previous speaker that we are talking about technical expertise, research results, other achievements with a lot of respect and very much discretion, assess them. But precisely on the question of art, which must be learned, studied and worked out, penetrated and thought through, I have in recent times the impression that I have never heard and observed as much insolence and superiority as last. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] I don't take anyone out, but the FPÖ must have a nose in front. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The FPÖ always has the nose in front! They're wearing the nose too high, we've got it in front!]] I remember, in this context, the real Doyen of the Vienna Modernity of postwar times, Monsignor Otto Wall, who has said that art is what experts hold for it. Some should write behind the ears, especially in your sector. [[towards the liberals]] Third "K": customers. Art lives from the struggle; that's quite right. No art wants to be in the depot, no poem, no play for the repository, no opera has been written for the archive, no opera has been composed to make no one hear, no fresco is produced, no sculpture has been cast in order not to be seen. But: We need expertise, see dealing with other expert products. This is not an accusation to you now, Mr State Secretary, that it would be a failure only in recent times that this competence of reception is so low, and it is not just a matter of school. I think that if lifelong learning, lifelong debate is seriously meant, it also concerns dealing with art. As a good example, I refer to an initiative that has just been established in Vienna, which is called: "From small to art." Six cultural and art institutions apply by means of an image campaign what is high-quality art and mediation work, and we should take an example, we should closely observe the experiences, and we should consider what lessons we can draw from them for art promotion, including their mediation. It is often true that especially with art and children and art and adults, the pair of words and thoughts is "less-age is equal to inferior". So: Learning minors, dealing with art must not be linked to inferiors. Learning art is of course not the same as learning vocabulary or root drawing, but it also has something to do with knowledge and ability. And if today people, especially young ones, no longer have Bible knowledge, then they can no longer understand centuries or millenniums of ancient table art. If they don't at least control classical mythology in approaches, they don't understand the Renaissance, yes they can't even pass through Parliament. Whoever believes that he does not have to learn modern art – in it, I believe, the greatest error – is wrong, and then comes instead of learning, competent statements and a professional judgment just the order of events. One of the few artistic politicians, one of the last "Museum ministers", it was Erhard Busek, has said to a FPÖ mandatar – I think it was John Gudenus – in this context: Think about it! If we all gave up as little meaning and understanding for modern art as you do, we would still be sitting on the trees together with your ancestors. – I think that is an essential task for us. [[Abg. May. Posch: It was the Gudenus!]] It was about the museum quarter and modern art at the time. Art lives by competent receptors: listening, reading, viewing, actively participating. If we want art to survive, we need sufficient means of mediation. I would ask, Mr State Secretary, if possible, in your speech, to address how this continues to develop. I conclude with a word I found in the greatest painter of ancient times who said: Schuster, stay with your man! He said this because a passing shooter had discovered on a picture a sandal where a nail was missing. On the pride of discovering this missing nail and correcting the mistake, he also developed further desires to paint and improve the Wade and the thigh. Then the painter said: Schuster, stay with your man! – I think everyone should take this to heart – and some very special.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e6514	Mrs. Dr. Petrovic, you are the next speaker. The watch works again, you can rely on it. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e6535	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! I'm just waiting for the moment until finally the events here in this house, in particular art and cultural debates, are also sometimes explained by someone as a work of art, as a certain kind of absurd theatre. But it's also quite entertaining occasionally. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Samuel Beckett!]] [[Intercession with the liberals.]] Part, overestimate You don't have my role, you're also part of this wheelwork. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: We are waiting for the cultural concept of freedom!]] In the context of the art report, I would like to stress that the type of report-making has taken very much of the suggestions into account also the opposition that I really consider the report to be a very good one. If I still cannot agree with him, then it is not the implementation of the report, but the policy behind it, which is being made and which I have to criticise. In addition to the various aspects and contents of this report, which, as I have said, is well-made, but from the political insidiousness, sad reports of a very different contribution through today's debate, which goes from mustard pits to other areas: the relationship of art, cultural creation to the role of the state, to the market or markets, and thus also to the social situation of culturalists. In my view, this is the basic problem and the basic criticism. De facto, there has been a stagnation of the budget in the art field for five years at the level of a little over 1 billion schilling, which means a fall in budgets in times of rising costs – and, of course, especially in the cultural business of disproportionately increasing costs. Indeed, the costs raised by various security fees, entertainment taxes, announcement charges, the contract regulations and so on have been known and have already been criticised in detail. Against the background of dwindling cultural budgets, art budgets, artists are always drawn to the free markets. Mrs. Dr. Schmidt! I do not think that this Pragmatization mechanism is such a more consistent mechanism. It is probably precisely the problem that it really affects certain parts of the cultural industry very strongly, and there perhaps the artistic repressive effect, but in other areas there is such a tough and hardy and unspoiled market, that it is really adventurous. The Austrian state, in particular, does not even know what is happening in these areas. There are statistics – thank God there are statistics! – on all areas of industrial employment; it lists exactly how many fruit trees there are in our country, and I do not know what else. There are statistics on the tertiary sector and tourism, statistics on those who offer hot and cold cuisine, statistics on the number of businesses and jobs in this area. Mr State Secretary! Where is there any attempt at an evaluation here? What are the different sectors of the economy in the cultural sector? How does the operating structure look? What are the special problems of the companies in the field of music, in the field of visual art? What about the marketing structures? And, of course, much more: What about the social situation of cultural workers who, if they exceed a low amount of luggage with their income, enter the full social security obligation, which may be higher than monthly income? There is not even a continuous recording. I have tried in a sub-area to give me an overview, and I have come to see that there are no surveys of modern entertainment music. There are great complaints, but precise reasons to locate what this may be about are very difficult to raise. Of course I also wish myself significantly higher art budgets. If, for example, there had been those increases, as they were common until 1994 – about 100 million schillings a year more than the thumbs – then one would have reached the 2-billion schilling limit. I think that this would be a much more reasonable value, which would allow a little more movement, especially in the field of contemporary work, without having to talk about oversupply or Pragmatization. Beyond this desire for better budgeting, I think, it is also about the analysis and definition of mechanisms between the state and the market. We can talk about legal forms, foundations, outbreaks from camera music. I do not think this is the stone of the sages, but it is a possible aspect to approach an improvement here. But above all, we need to talk about the barriers to the market. There are such vicious circles in many areas. For example, the ORF cannot play a contemporary piece if the artist or artist has no record contract. He or she will not get a record contract because the ORF will certainly not play this work. That is to read black on white, there are many such statements. This can be found in the field of music, in the field of book trade and in the area of galleries. In many areas one can find marketing structures where there are very high entrance barriers, the name counts, and the state is not required to take so much money into its hands, rather to reduce thresholds in order to perhaps make it possible to get started. Then, in any case, a person must claim to be on the markets. But such data are not even collected and analyzed. I think that's a core problem. I would also like to come to the role of cultural debates in this a little absurd theatre. This is a time and again the case is being brought and asked: What is the Freedom Party doing? – She polarizes, emotionalizes, conducts a campaign against intellectuals and intellectuals. I'd say, Please don't have big waves! This is a decision to do such a thoughtful, intellectual calculation. This kind of politics lives on discovering, building up emotional issues, finding fears, perhaps finding out aggressions, strengthening and polarizing them at this level. This is a political concept and calculation. For this, there are a number of areas – we know that – such as the foreign policy, but there is also a conflict that is startled between the students and the brave, hardworking workers. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Animal Protection!]] There is certainly also the issue of animal protection and the question of why you do so little against mass animal farming and the millions of times slaughters on the flow band. There are many topics, of course also the field of art and culture. Mr Cap is absolutely right to do this: You need each other. To be honest: Is it not our overall economic system, which is so highly praised on every occasion, especially since 1989? Everyone is trying to increase market values. The economy is trying to do this, it is using advertising, which is also increasingly focusing on posters on the scandal – whether for fashion companies or for other products, because what is not noticed, what is not spoken about, does not exist. This is sought from one side as from the other. It doesn't even need to be outraged. Of course, it is precisely those who have some kind of emotional issues to address – whether the children are concerned with the area of animal welfare or with other issues. It also doesn't matter whether or not that corresponds to the truth. It is a certain calcule that passeth through; and so is it. The question of majority capacity is, of course, part of the calculation that one is hoping to achieve the broadest possible headnick. In particular, Mrs Schmidt's address is as follows: I think it is absolutely legitimate that everyone – every man, every woman, even politicians – can judge art and give their opinion on it. I even think that someone who claims a certain importance in cultural policy should also have an opinion. However, this will not be equally competent in all areas, nor can it be. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Schmidt.]] Having an opinion is absolutely necessary. It is only the question of whether opinions are instrumentalized in order to achieve a completely different political goal, namely the outrage against the rulers, the outrage against those who receive promotions, the outrage against any evil. That's the goal, not the content of what happens. This is completely marginal, which is also absolutely conscious of those who pursue this kind of policy. It was like that at any time. Take the works from Roman Antiquity, works by writers, some of which belong to the standard practice in schools! There are works whose contents are absolutely pornographic or could be classified as such. Take the works of painting in many areas of artists who have extreme market values today! Take the architecture of a Otto Wagner! There were massive political decisions that said that this should be possible. This was absurd and bizarre for the taste of time, but today these buildings are an honorable style of youth. That's just changing, but one thing remains, of course: The majority will probably recognize the value only later. That's exactly the discrepancy. It may also be that something will not change, that one will come up in later times, and that will not be the case; it can also be! [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: You will find examples for everything!]] Yes, there are examples, there is only the question of what is being pursued politically. I'm just saying, That is what you agree with, and that is legitimate in a democracy, but you should be aware of what is going on, and then respond accordingly. The limits of the possibility of polarization and emotionalization are where barriers are built. This is certainly a task which I have to do with the head of government, especially in the field of art and cultural competence. If it is not possible to exceed a certain limit, it is no longer easy to make policy. This is shown again and again in the other emotionalisation topics – from the Light Sea to solidarizations with artists. It is about the question of the bordering of those responsible who may have their personal opinion on the objective mechanisms, but would otherwise have to exercise their role as lawyers of the freedom of art – in my opinion –. If this role of the political responsible comes into play, if it is no longer quite clear whether they go with the populists, whether they have a certain populist calculum in their back, or whether they are the bastion for the freedom of art that every man and woman may criticize, it will be dangerous. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It will be dangerous if it is no longer really recognizable if someone is allowed to do so. Of course, restrictions also apply to the art and cultural industry; Lawbreaks, violations of principles are not to be tolerated, but the limits for art and culture are certainly as far outside as possible, for art and culture also have the task of critically questioning today's views and values as well as giving rise to change. Therefore, there must be the framework of the greatest possible. This broadest possible framework has an art chancellor to defend, unconditionally and categorically. If it is clear that a break-in in this area, the attempt to make it wrong, illegal, is a taboo break, then it can no longer make politics that easy – it can be tried. This also shows the process and development in the so-called - and so-called provocative - Causa Kolig, because in this regard the concern of the Freeman to collect at least 20 000 signatures has been demonstrated as a rather capital flop, because the backgrounds were very clear and the political assessments have also been maintained. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: In three hours 1000 signatures!]] In those areas in which they have been shaken – if, for example, the chancellor's wife publicly expresss a different opinion than the chancellor and it is not quite certain where she really is standing – political capital can be truly shameless and without limits exhausted. That is why it is so important to see in which function an art chancellor sees himself – beyond his influence or opinion on individual areas. Apart from this criticism in detail, which I often had to practice on Minister Scholten, I would like to say that this part really played. This has taken him off in public, I believe, because he has really felt and carried them to the outside. I say the following to you, Mr State Secretary: At the moment when uncertainty arises in this role, you will open the doors to an unlimited populist policy, which I believe will be very, very harmless, the issues that honourable Members Cap have taken up with the Senkgruben and the density of any clones.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e6654	Mrs. Dr. Konrad, you are the next speaker. Please give me another minute! I am obliged to make a communication. Announcement of an application for the establishment of an investigative committee
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e6675	The representatives of Aumayr and comrades have, according to § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure request that an investigation committee be set up to examine the political, legal and financial responsibility of several Federal Ministers and the AMA in the development and inadequate management of the alleged hormone meat scandal. There is also the request made by five Members to hold a debate on this request. For the purposes of the Rules of Procedure, the debate and the vote will be held after completion of the agenda. Mrs Dr. Konrad, you are now speaking. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e6704	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The "Arbeitsgemeinschaft Kunstreport", which for the first time took over the editorial work of the present report, has produced a report that can really be seen; it has already been recognized by many – by most – today. It is an informative, an exciting, attractive report. The working group has compiled a report which also shows graphically what the debate is about. The authors are very grateful for this. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] In this way, ladies and gentlemen, it can really succeed to establish an art report as an information medium on the current situation of contemporary art in Austria and its promotion and to interest a wider audience, far beyond Parliament. With reports like this one, it can succeed to inform many interested people meaningfully and appealingly and encourage them to discuss art production, with art presentation and art promotion. And this discussion, this public discourse, is not only for those interested in culture and for us politicians, but also for those who create culture, artists and artists, because without a lively discussion, the artistic work of the social nourishment is lacking. Such a general, broad and yet qualified debate is an essential objective of my group's art policy. Reports like this contribute to this, and this is pleasing. We are concerned with creating and promoting a climate in which art creation, artistic experiments and their failure is possible. Because the failure must also have its legitimate place in art. With Ars Electronica, cultural philosopher Paul Virilio has said that with every invention of the accident, the failure was invented. – In my opinion, this must also apply to artistic processes, to artistic production. The place for success and failure must be made possible by cultural and art policy. Ladies and gentlemen! Just recently, at the meeting of the relevant EU ministers in Linz, all political leaders stressed the social importance of art and stressed the need to promote and support artists, productions and institutions in a substantial way – the emphasis is on "substantial" – and that more than ever! And that's a good thing. I am convinced, like some of my previous speakers, that a broad, but very serious and expert discussion is important in Austria, at European level and beyond the borders of the EU. I can't say, too, that I think that this hypocritical outrage, which occasionally comes up in this house – and who knows, perhaps even today – and which is rather artificial and often highly unartistic, is nothing but a kind of verbal showgymnastic, which often has little to do with the object of excitement and, as I dare to say, you – and I am turning to the FPÖ – against better knowledge of the Gaudium and often also to excite the audience. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Scatter]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: In artistic hypocrisy you are an expert!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But I'll come back a little bit more importantly: The Linz conference showed that Austria can well represent and contribute its advanced cultural policy position in the EU. I only mention a few words because of lack of time: Art must not be measured primarily and certainly not exclusively with the standards of the market, art and artists must be generously promoted, the EU support programmes are being continued, the involvement of the neighbouring countries, which are not in the EU, should lead to an increase in the budget, and smaller, innovative projects should be preferred to mega-events – to name just a few keywords. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl]] From the point of view of my group, the course is thus in the right direction. And this direction does not mean funding policy from above against promoters from below, but creative communication and sustainable structures for joint decisions to enable a diverse and versatile cultural creation and cultural life.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e6761	Mr Klubobmann Mag is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Stadler. 10 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e6791	Mr President. High house! In line with the statements made by my previous speaker, I would like to point out what is being served as an art for people in this country. No one needs to be heated up. People's outrage is serious, Mrs. Konrad. I don't know if you're aware of that. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Do you remember the outrage of Mr. Khol – or does he also excite the people, your coalition partner – when we made a urgent request, in which this picture, the party friend, the Christian-social minister Elisabeth Gehrer, hangs, in color copy, with the image caption "Unstained Contaminated Conception", so the picture was contained? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Krüger]] [[the speaker keeps the copy of a mill image in height]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: He wanted to leave it!]] Hermes Phettberg urinates the Mother of God into the mouth. Do you believe that this makes the people, especially those who have religious feelings, cold in this country? I assume that Mr Khol, too, was guided by his religious feelings when he was outraged. That's what I'm going to do! [[Abg. Wabl: I don't assume that!]] But the EIA does nothing about it, otherwise it would have to act against this image, for example. [[The speaker keeps the copy of another mill image in height.]] It also hangs in the Museum of Applied Art and is called "Phetty" – meaning Phettberg – "removes your sins", acrylic on canvas, 100 x 80 centimetres! – Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Swimmling: It can not only hang the Egger line there!]] This is your cultural policy. And people are really upset about that. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Or, here's another picture. [[The speaker holds a third mill image in a copy to the height.]] To do this, no one needs to be appalled, and this hurts religious feelings. Hermes Phettberg with the crucifix, Mr. Nitsch, who pours him with blood. [[Abg. Sweamling: (shaking the head) Dreamy: Stadler as a moral entity!]] - You shake your head? Finally, the colleague from Salzburg, who otherwise only has problems with his double references, has also understood something. This hurts religious feelings, Mr. Schwemmlein. If you have not understood it, then let yourself be said by someone who feels hurt by such pictures as well. This has nothing to do with culture. This is conscious provocation, consciously reducing religious feelings! Ladies and gentlemen! In this context, I have held an interesting debate on the works of art of Mr Nitsch. You can stand to do what you want. One stands either as colleague Cap, who says that it's all right, or as well as the ÖVP – I'm going to talk about it. It was said to me that Mr. Nitsch represented only the animal sacrifice in religion. – I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, and you, dear Josef Cap, but then why he does not represent them in connection with those religions that have known animal sacrifices to this day, such as Islam or Judaism. Do you know why? – Because the Ayatollahs would put an entire murder command on his neck within a few days! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Only with the Christian religion, which still belongs to the majority of the Austrians, can you do what you want. And it is a sad fact that both the Church and the Austrian People's Party are silent. The latter even plays with you, ladies and gentlemen! That is the problem. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] All of this is done under the responsibility of the local authorities. Yesterday, for example, the Secretary of State tells us that what Mr Mühl represents is a representative workshop for Austrian contemporary art! [[Intrusion of the Abg. You son of a bitch.]] I reject this in the name of all decent Austrians! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is not representative of what a child’s leg produces with the support of the public! Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! You will not be able to make it as easy as in the Biennial catalogue when your country politicians did not tire out to say that they had nothing to do with it. In Upper Austria, the country level was emphasized at the time and said that the catalogue had broken everything the "evil" federal party, so there was nothing to do. The Federal ÖVP is responsible for this, they are the Landes-ÖVP, has been said. The same policy is being pursued by Mr Steindl. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: Did we write the catalogue?]] Mr Pühringer said in dozens of election speeches that he had nothing to do with that, that is from the Federal ÖVP. Therefore, Mr Schüssel was not allowed to even speak again at the election events in Upper Austria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You can't do it that easy. It's not that easy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Mühlbachler.]] Mr Mühlbachler! Should I tell you what that is, what you're doing here? That's not just double-bedded, but that's false testimony against the voters, if you know what I mean. Wrong witness against the voters! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Mühlbachler, go inside and check! That's double-puzzled, double-puzzled, and that's false testimony against the voters! You should let that go a little bit to your heart. Ladies and gentlemen! But the ÖVP is still driving the whole thing to the top. Now she is supposed to have nothing to do with Mr Nitsch, says Steindl. That's the SPÖ thing. [[Abg. Wabl: This is not the SPÖ!]] The pictures in the house – he is right – were purchased by President Fischer, not by the ÖVP. He's right about that. [[Abg. May. Mühlbachler: Who made the Biennial catalogue?]] But perhaps you should take an example of Mr Morak. Mr Morak has never distanced himself from this pult by Nitsch and Co. – nor from Mr Mühl. [[Abg. Morak: Sorry, Mr. Stadler! That's not true!]] But the ÖVP will not tire of acting in Austria as if it had nothing to do with all these transactions. Mr Khol and Mr Morak. Mr Cap said that the so-called artist Nitsch would have to write letters of thanks to the FPÖ. But he doesn't write it to the FPÖ, he writes it to the ÖVP! I'll read it to you. Rita Nitsch says on behalf of her husband in the "Standard" of 7. August of this year: "We tried in advance to sign up for the six-day game as a big event, but the liberals prevented this. With the support of the NÖ People's Party, however, it succeeded in getting all the permits for a club event." – Thank you: Rita Nitsch. [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: Who got this letter?]] But it goes even further: In the "NEWS", number 33, Nitsch says in the original tone: "Suddenly the most decent" – from the point of view of Mr. Nitsch – were "the blacks who used to persecute me. I owe you all the permits. People like Pröll, like the head of state, seem to begin to appreciate which artists they have in Lower Austria." - Quote. [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] But you have nothing to do with nitsch! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Mühlbachler.]] This is hypocrisy, Mr. Mühlbachler. I would like to read to you what Mr Nitsch can thank you for. I read to you from a work by Mr Nitsch, because I suspect you do not know it at all. So intensively addressed You don't have to do that, I know. "The conquest of Jerusalem", which sounds like this – be careful once, you can learn something about it: [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: We know that!]] "Christ is led to a house of slaughter. He slaughters with the help of butchers 20 cattle (...). The animals are bleeding out and skinned. christ has killed a bull, he lays himself on the animal that is still standing at the back, sucks at the sex of the bull, sucks out herb (...) and bites into the gender of the bull." [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: You can save this!]] "He kisses the testicle's testicles, swallows the testicles, bites into the testicles, and cuts them in pieces with a scalpel." [[Abg. Wabl: Stadler, for a contract at the Schauspielhaus you are not good enough!]] I quote: "Christ lies on the warm bake of the just slaughtered bull and sucks the blood from the place where he separated the testicles. christ has killed a cow, he lays himself on the hoofing animal that is still standing at the back, swallows the female part of the cow and puts his tongue deep in it... christ rides deep into the gender of the cow with a scalpel and breaks the inner part of the sex... the 20 skinned cattle are attached to the walls of the slaughter house as crucified." Ladies and gentlemen! It's still going on, but I don't have enough time to talk. Then white oversaw beds are spread out among the animal carcass. On these beds lie after the piece of menstrual women, these slaughter rabbits there, the ingrains of the rabbits stop in their genitals, and at the end there are 18-year-old homosexual youths who spray each other with blood and sperm. That's what you're defending! That is what Mr Pröll is working for. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Mühlbachler.]] For this, the Austrian People's Party is reaping the thanks of Mr Nitsch! Ladies and gentlemen, you should be ashamed! You should at least be ashamed of the dual nature you use against the voters! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Our cultural policy on Mr Kolig is also successful. Mr Schweitzer has produced 1 000 signatures to Mr Kolig within three hours, Mrs Konrad. 1 000 signatures against Mr Kolig! Because what the brother of Deputies Brinek is producing here is according to ÖVP-Diction Art! [[the speaker holds a copy with photos of works consisting of excrements of Koligs]] That's art after Cap-Lesart! Art, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: This is badly researched!]] - The Cordula Frieser, pardon. It is the brother of Member Cordula Frieser who produces this art. Ladies and gentlemen! He'll be paid for that. The country of Lower Austria has a uranium staff. The artist pissed on this staff and then sold it to the country for 32,000 s. This urin staff, bought from land resources, is now failing in the art depot of the country of Carinthia. Narretei is increasing to the square. They're producing new clothes here from the Emperor. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Ms. Novotny, the future EU candidate for the SPÖ, claimed in London against the "Sunday Times" that already slaughtered animals had been delivered to Prinzendorf, that nothing had been slaughtered there. – She either doesn’t know herself at all, or she tells the people in England against better knowledge the untruth! An English animal protectionist – Mrs. Petrovic is not here at the moment – has been particularly active in England – that she has been inaccurately informed by the Ambassador of the Republic of Austria abroad about the piglets that take place in Prinzendorf and are supported, paid and supported by tax funds from that country.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e7119	Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Worm. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e7141	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e7187	I call Mrs Magnette. Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e7208	On the comments of Mr Stadler and Mr Stadler on Nitsch, I will still comment, but first of all I would like to say something about art and cultural policy in general. Ladies and gentlemen! Austria is a rich country! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: First, the speech has to be read!]] Between 1950 and 1997 the real per capita growth of Austria was the third highest within the 20 richest OECD nations. Only Japan and Portugal had an even greater growth. This economic success story is certainly the main reason for Austria's being able to provide a great deal of public cultural resources in a European comparison. Austria sees itself as a country of culture, and it exists across all parties, associations and stakeholders – and I am pleased to see this – national consensus. Perhaps this national consensus, namely that public expenditure on culture is high, is the reason for the fact that for decades now more debated what culture, what art is, what can be promoted and how much to spend on the cultural sector. Perhaps we too are European leaders in this cultural struggle. High house! 14 days ago Hans Brenner, a great human actor and folk actor, died much too early. He was the driving force, the heart and the motor of the Tyrolean folk show in Telfs, many of which have found attention and highest recognition far beyond the Tyrolean borders. The Volksschauspiele and Hans Brenner, who are now recognized and respected in the 1996 art report, appear relatively high for Tyrolean conditions, namely with 1.2 million schilling – that is, prominent – were exposed to a huge cultural struggle in Tyrol, when they performed the "Stigma" written for them by the now also established and recognized writer Felix Mitterer. The storm of indignation extended far into the parties, into church circles and into the media landscape and was strongly shaken for years. The folk spectacles were in wide circles of the really uplifted population! That was really a wild cultural struggle! The piece "Stigma" is seen differently by most today. The society has become more tolerant. The Hans Brenner, who was so hostile at that time, was personally adopted in 1998 by the head of state, but also in the name of Tyrol at the grave. I have personally noticed that the ORF has not responded and has not brought its own mission through this truly committed Austrian and Tyrolean. That really turned me off. [[Abg. May. Stoisits: But the ARD!]] The ARD already, but he was not just a Bayer, but a Tyrolean, so I would have liked that program changes be made not only for Hollywood actors. [[Abg. May. Stoisits: A shame for the ORF!]] Now there are now again media, groups and parties – and with this I come to the honourable Member Stadler – who believe that they have to beat cheap capital out of a struggle at the expense of art. For example, the Tyrolean disciples of the Party of Freedom, which he believes, have tried to raise the population against artists and their works in Tyrol before the elections, with the understanding of art you think. [[Abg. Böhacker: Do you also have an opinion?]] At the Tirol Volkskunstmuseum in Innsbruck – listen to me, you haven't seen it – a much-remarked exhibition titled "The Bird Self-Knowledge" is currently taking place. – The titles alone should encourage you to think! [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. Khol.]] The museum has invited 25 contemporary artists to brush the museum against the line, so to speak. This means that these artists have selected certain departments or objects in the museum to which they react. One of these artists is Hermann Nitsch. It is with you right now, the "truthful", "funct", but intolerants send to defy everything in the niche – Parliamentary Krüger is out there, he has considered this a little more differentiated and merely rejected the rituals, but not the other far-reaching art of Mr. Nitsch. You will have to agree once on how you stand at the level of niche. The Tyrolean "Statthalter" of FPÖ, Franz Linser, has commented against this exhibition. He has acted and has meant that he would immediately stop public subsidies for exhibitions of this kind, in which – in whatever form – Hermann Nitsch is involved, if he were to come to the government in Tyrol after the elections in March next year. – This may prevent the Tyrolean people during the elections next year. Mr President. High house! I find the new form of the 1996 art report very successful. The efforts to shape it in such a way that its appearance is nationally and internationally comparable must be emphasized. Unfortunately, Tyrol did not fall too much on the sun side of the promotions; I would like to say that already. The Tyrolean cultural report for 1996, which I have tried to compare with the 1996 art report, also points out that the Germans and the ministries responsible for culture agreed on a uniform presentation of the cultural posts. There are now 17 categories. This also facilitates comparison, but it is still quite difficult. To this end, I would like to tell you, as it were, about two "channels" that I noticed in this comparison: For example, it is to be read in the Tyrolean cultural report that a purely medical-natural-scientific project, which examines how cells communicate with each other, was thought of with 500 000 s of Tyrolean cultural funds. It can also be found that the really popular Mensabon action in which the country of Tyrol promotes the menus in the Mensa for students is received as a cultural promotion in one of these 17 main categories agreed with the federal government and the countries. I've been looking for: I didn't find the school milk action, which I'm glad about. Perhaps, although culture is a very stretchable concept, one should consider whether one should not make a certain demarcation. Finally, we cannot find everything in this cultural report.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e7298	Mr Dr Kier is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e7320	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! We are being presented in this debate on how to deal with questions. One can deal with the actual subject of the negotiation, namely the art report and culture in the broadest sense of the word – or one can use any debate to make one's own prejudices transparent and popular, trying to excite, excite outrage rather than enter into a dialogue. I wonder which goal such contributions have. It cannot be the aim of this place to reject texts which, as Mr Stadler is entitled to do, one obviously refuses to immunise in this House. So he must have a different goal. It cannot be his goal that he can read these texts in the stenographic protocols. The objective is apparently not to allow such things to happen, to make them impossible at all in the next step, and then consistently to forbid them. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Or he likes it.]] In my opinion, this must be rejected in all circumstances, because it would be the same as a dictatorship. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: He worked very relaxed!]] Those who stand for openness to art, who believe that both democratic and cultural maturity can be recognized by how to deal with artists, must reject such speeches sharply. It is not a question of asking for everyone to identify with all things. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: A victim of love!]] Criticism is an essential element of cultural policy and artistic debate, only: The forms of criticism often speak for themselves. Those who criticize and argue in this form also contribute to an image of Austrian political culture, in a pitiful way. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] In my opinion, if one rejects something, one must also find words which are not even worse than what one supposes to condemn. Whoever gets involved in the choice of funds does not contribute to the debate, but one to the self-representation. But we should not be ungrateful for this self-representation, for: The more clearly this kind of self-representation becomes visible, the greater the chance that more and more people understand what is actually being intentioned, namely ban, censorship and state art in the most negative sense of the word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e7394	Mrs Ablinger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e7442	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to re-examine the art report and address those issues that you, Mrs Schmidt, have addressed in connection with the promotion of art. I also believe – and this is something we have been complaining about for years now – that it is not very useful to discuss these art reports only a few years later. I am right to say that it would be interesting, as is usual in other countries, to discuss future cultural plans, and that it would make sense to discuss at this point or also to argue from me, which accents, which priorities, what activities and what objectives we want to set in cultural policy for the next four years. In my opinion, however, this would not only be a report or plan of the Ministry of Art, but also a plan of the Foreign Office and the Ministry of Education. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: That's why this belongs in a resort!]] That's right! Then we can actually argue about the future here. This discussion is also to be conducted, and this also requires a change in the way in which cultural plans are drawn up. As far as financing is concerned, I would go one step further at two levels. On the one hand, there is the problem that at local and regional levels the small theatres and initiatives are in some way wounding their feet on their way from the mayor to the head of state to the Federal Minister or at different levels from municipal councils to national politicians. All over the place, the money's going to be rubbed. At national level, the argument is: If the country pays for something, the city also pays – and vice versa. The country says: If the city pays, we pay, too, and if the federal government is still shooting, we make a third-party financing. In other words, it has always been the responsibility of the individual small theatre or initiatives that they collect their money. Then they may be a third-party financing. In my opinion, one could change this responsibility in connection with the cultural plan in the future: The Minister of Art or the Minister of Art takes responsibility and travels to the regions and, together with the cultural makers and cultural politicians, sets out the objectives, activities and priorities to be set in these regions and who takes over the financial contributions. In this way, it would not only be the task of the individual initiatives to launch every schilling, but also the Minister would be involved in the responsibility from the outset, and the national and urban cultural politicians would then assume responsibility and say that we want to set and finance these priorities. Then it would no longer be the task of a small theatre to run from Pontius to Pilate to get the necessary money together. - So much for the first point. The second point concerns a problem that you have already addressed, namely camera music. There is the system of funding contracts for three years. I know that from my hometown of Linz. In my opinion, this works well there; this is also done in the art report. This is one point that I believe we should also be adopting in the Committee on Culture. For these contracts do not mean that the beneficiaries can do what they want for three years. You also have to provide an activity report every year – and that is quite useful – in order to demonstrate whether what is being promoted is actually realized. However, it is a question of having a certain degree of security and of assuming that their projects will be financed for the next three years. In Linz, this has been so practiced for three years, and I am very proud of it. The initiatives are now in the process of calling for this from the Upper Austria country. In the country of Upper Austria, these three-year funding contracts are also carefully considered. All in all, however, this is an old problem. Mr Wittmann, you are certainly a co-chairman of the situation that we have little money. In the long run, it will not work that so little money is available for cultural policy. – He certainly does not exist! [[in the direction of the Abg, just passing by the speaker pult. Dr. Khol]] – But the question is how to get new models to get more money for the free arts. To this end, I would like to start by saying: The sports promotion receives money out of lots, from rubbleless. Why can't we even start thinking about whether you can't get extra money for the free arts out of the sale? In total, however, it is necessary to increase the cultural budget. Now on the issue of the FPÖ's contributions. In fact, at this point we do not decide on the aesthetics of art. In my opinion, we can give this comfort to the experts. Rather, it is crucial that it is possible for culture and art to be realized in this country and that more and more people can participate in it. This decision, we have this discussion here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] If the FPÖ had anything to say, this country would probably be very devastated. But the FPÖ has nothing to say, and the art will also survive the FPÖ. I'm sure of that. [[Call to the liberals: but also the SPÖ!]] In conclusion: Mr State Secretary, I believe that the Vienna Philharmonics should also include women.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e7500	Mr Magistrate has now been reported to speak. Schweitzer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e7521	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The art and cultural party, the self-proclaimed art and cultural party SPÖ, is quite sparsely represented in this debate. The contributions made so far do not really have the right to be the leading art and cultural party in this country, which is constantly being raised, although this claim is constantly being raised, most recently by State Secretary Wittmann. It has said that the SPÖ must keep the place in any case. Cap has said this again and again. It was Rudas who stressed the importance of this place for the SPÖ. As early as 1994, Ursula Patercht's cultural councillor, in my opinion, has already announced a very crucial sentence, Mr Cap, that the cultural resort is the ideology resort of the Social Democratic Party. "We have recognized" – I quote – "that this is very important to be able to transport certain things." – This is a nice confession by Ursula Paterk. The SPÖ sees cultural policy as a means of transport for its political ideas, i.e. for socialist party politics, and socialist party politics should, according to its ideas, be Austrian cultural policy. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, that's not how it can be done! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is sad, but true that the Austrian art report confirms and underlines this. It is indeed true that where decisions are taken, how funds are distributed and posts are occupied, the SPÖ is in the final effect. The SPÖ bears responsibility for all decisions, how funds are distributed and posts occupied, and repeatedly brings the people close to it into the corresponding positions. That's a fact. I am not alone with the claim that the SPÖ's manuscript would be even more evident if the annual art report were to indicate which requests were rejected on which grounds. Even rejected artists are not informed of the reasons for rejection. Peter Weibel, who has been in the Art Advisory Board for five years, did not make any sense of this in an "Noema" interview – an art magazine that Col. Cap certainly knows – when he says: Of course, in many cases we have been passed on by politics. – He also expresses this. The consequence of this is – and that's why you're talking about the SPÖ, it was Easter, it's Rudas, it's Cap, and it's all about all those who are dealing with art and cultural policy on the part of SPÖ – that art and cultural artists in our country are increasingly subject to the social-democratic funding dictatorship. They must do so because they are dependent on the funding and can only survive with promotions; therefore, they are subject to this support thickness. Ladies and gentlemen! This is confirmed by the German curator Lioba Reddeker, who according to cultural journalists is the extended arm of the SPÖ culture policy. This brings the problem to the fore – Mr Morak, this quote must be broken on the tongue: "The artists have become complicits of cultural policy, for they have always learned to arrange themselves with those who overwhelm money." Thomas Trenkler – he sits up there –, cultural editor of the "Standard", said: [[the speaker points towards the audience gallery]] "Who is surprised that the artists have to adapt to the guardian SPÖ curator, yes, as part of a survival strategy." The well-dominated red curators explain what climate, Easter, Rudas and so on have to be art. The artists focus quickly on the requirements of social-democratic definitions. Many artists complain – and this is also confirmed by the curator Reddeker – that there has been no support for her projects because they refused to let the curator's arm intervene in a project that was already planned, because they refused to allow the curator to intervene in the art that they made or projected. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Schmidt.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In reality, there are only two ways to promote Austria: Either you cut the project from the house to the requirements of the promoter SPÖ – or you can cut the project of social democratic promoters as they would like it to be. These are the only two ways to promote art in Austria without problems. There are no other ways! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Once again, I would like to quote a SPÖ witness – Mr Cap has now preferred to leave because it is unpleasant – a rather young one, namely the press speaker of the Federal Party, Heinz Lederer, whom you certainly know well. He said: "Cultural policy must not only give the artist opportunities, but also has artists" – one hears, Dr. Wittmann! – "to take the service of the state." According to your spokesperson Lederer, cultural policy "has to take the art into the service of the state". [[Abg. May. Stadler: State Artist!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Where's the cap? Everything's already been there! Judge the Führer!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is one of my honest young Social Democrats, the colleague Lederer, an honest young man who says more or less that the subsidy monopoly creates a cultural monopoly with the product state artist, and we want that; we want to come to the product state artist in the final effect. – Ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy, you have also succeeded: You have your state artist. In my view, however, the task of cultural policy is not to keep state artists, but to ensure that cultural diversity is maintained, even if it does not correspond to socialist ideas. In addition, the people should be given access to art instead of giving them some understanding: You keep the cardboards and pay pretty good, you don't understand anything by art anyway! My dear friends! That would be your task, namely to enable those who pay to understand this culture too! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] One should promote interest in art, but not everyone should say: You have no idea, at most you have the piped deer hanging on the wall, that's your kind of art understanding. – This is how you deal with the people who have to pay what you spend for the state artists. [[New condolences with the liberals.]] We might then have a more open cultural debate if we were to develop interested, critical art consumers by means of a reasonable art policy. I would like this to be done by the SPÖ and all of those who are properly understood in art and culture policy... [[Abg. Morak: You do not want them at all!]] Mr Morak! You can then respond to what I said, I would be very pleased about it. I'm convinced that if You are honest, you will have to agree to me in many areas. I hope you do. Mr Morak! The events of recent months have once again shown that between what is sold as art and the general public a great gap has arisen. We should be thinking, Mrs Konrad, if people come across a lot and want to sign initiatives against Kolig and Co. It is not true that no one was interested, on the contrary: In crowds they came and once wanted to express their displeasure. I have just talked to some of the staff who have listened, when Mr Stadler has read a lot, they have just shaken their heads more. This is still the true feedback of healthy human feeling. People can start with what you want to promote, what you want to make the public believe that it is art, absolutely nothing. You are desperate that you are still financing this with the tax money these people have to pay. I'll tell you: Do something to reduce this gap!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e7629	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, Mr State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e7650	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The 1996 art report follows a new classification. I believe that this classification should be maintained for the future. It leads to the harmonisation of statistical data across Austria, and the uniformity of these statistics has also proved very successful for the federal states. I think it has become a very detailed and comprehensive report. I would like to take note of the fact that he is being judged in this form – at least by most of the Members present here. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Formal!]] – Not content, but formal, I have now taken note of. The art report itself is a snapshot of art promotion in this country and clearly shows – we wanted to make it transparent – what priorities it sets, what priorities we are trying to set in the future and how we are trying to support and weight these priorities. In order to address the contributions to the debate, we have made it a task not only to change the report but also to set accents in the art administration. We started with the biggest break in our budget: It was the Bundestheater. I believe that we have found a solution that is forward-looking, but above all gives a better opportunity for transparency and efficiency in the use of costs and that ultimately our cultural administration is also preparing for future tasks. We want to do the same in the field of cultural administration. I just think there can be no momentary change in individual sub-areas, but we want to produce a White Paper on the administration of art and culture. This White Paper should be nothing but a basis for discussion with those concerned, with artists, with cultural politicians or with cultural agents, or with cultural intermediaries, in order to finally make a decision. It is also intended to involve cultural administration in its own home, because of whether other systems are better suited, whether the system should be maintained in this way, or whether, for example, international systems – adapted to Austria – can be used in one area or another. Of course, we will also look at this in comparison with the Dutch system mentioned, because it is a system that is certainly superior. We are open in all directions. I think only one must be clear and be stressed over and over again: It is not possible to remove the art administration or state from the promotion of art and ultimately privatize it. This cannot be our task, and that must also be held. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: I didn't ask for that!]] This is not possible in a country like Austria – because of the tradition, because of the self-conception, how we deal with art, not and also because of the small market structure that Austria has. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Liberal Forum.]] That is, we will have this discussion to hold. As far as the White Paper is concerned, I should like to refer very briefly to the date. We'll do it on 22. The debate is to begin on September. Of course, the Committee on Culture, I assume, will deal with this outcome. To the individual contributions that have come here. It was accused by Mr Krüger that my predecessor, Minister Scholten, had instrumentalized the artists for politics. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to sum up all these contributions from the Freedom Party and say the following: An instrumentalization of art policy is currently taking place on a liberal basis, in a way that it does not deal with the problem of art promotion objectively, but merely arouses emotions and, ultimately, tries to develop a majority of indignation and an anti-artistic climate through a healthy feeling of the people. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] We try to protect the artists from such attacks. We are trying to maintain the climate we have in this country, which promotes the artist and protects him from such attacks. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Liberal Forum.]] I believe that if you think of the thought – I did not expect anything else due to the opinions in the newspapers – in the run-up to this report, it was clear what kind of art policy is being done here – then you can see that this is a social approach that goes far beyond the artistic assessment of individual artists. Why don't we think that thought is over? An artist who moves within the framework of the law, who does not violate law, is therefore acting like any other citizen according to the rules of the state, is made contemptuous about the media, about the emotionalization of the majority, and one also tries to prevent him from exercising his work, although this artist is moving within the framework of the laws. That is to say, one can only give this artist the protection that every citizen in that country owes. If he moves within the framework of the laws, he should also enjoy the full support of this state so that those laws may also apply to him. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Liberal Forum.]] If we continue to think, then we would have to make it impossible not only for artists who move within the framework of the law but also for other members of our society, who are moving within the framework of the law, but also through emotions and by bringing emotionalised majority opinions, to be disdained from having access to our society. Ladies and gentlemen! This development must be suffocated in the germ. It must be acknowledged to the art of that free space which you are entitled to in order to continue to be active as a social pioneer without limitation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Liberal Forum.]] I mean, if you try to make yourself irreversible with the help of the police, that's what's right. That's what Karl Kraus said. This has been tried in this form. I believe that these attempts should be addressed with all vehemence. I believe that it has rightly happened in Lower Austria as it has happened, and that the democratic forces that have allied themselves to protect art have exerted themselves. On the allegations regarding focus film and architecture. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I think we can clearly read film's emphasis on our actions. First of all: A 20 percent increase in the film budget – a 20 percent increase! – is an above-average increase in a budget itself. It is not 0.1 percent of our funding expenditure, but about 10 percent that we have to represent in our budget. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: I am talking about the cultural budget and not the total budget!]] I refer to the free-standing art budget of the funding budget, and of which film funding takes 10 percent. I must say, however, that there are further incentives. It is still 65 million schilling to add to the film department, so that it is a total of 185 million schilling. In addition, there is another activity planned in 1998 and 1999, in which we set aside another 100 million schillings for the film. This amount will be paid out in 1998 and 1999 in addition to the funding already mentioned. That is to say, that amount, which is to be disbursed in 1998, is then once again doubled by the ORF after its possibilities and put into film production. I believe that this is an approach which goes very far beyond the normal possible extent within our budget and which clearly demonstrates that activities and accents are to be set. You have also asked what we are doing against the creation of multiplex centers that are threat to existence for the individual kinos. We have a cinema promotion. We pay 5 million schillings a year for cinema promotion. We have novelled the Film Promotion Act, we are trying to provide an incentive to promote successful films or filmmakers more than not successful filmmakers by means of reference promotion. That is, in an overall package, one can very well derive this focus film from the actions. This is a very serious accent that is placed there. Now for the accusation of architecture: The possibilities for us to intervene in architectural policy are, of course, very difficult because of our constitutional circumstances. It is essentially a matter of starting a consciousness-building, so that architecture in public construction also takes place. This means that the clients must be used to deal with modern architecture, and our task can only be to support thought-building forums, think-building organisations, or to form platforms with which one then tries to finally involve these responsible ones. The urban planning itself – we all know – and the construction matters are matters of the municipalities, or the spatial planning plans are matters of the countries. Of course, it is also our concern to involve those responsible in these spatial planning departments, in the construction departments through our platforms or through the exchange of information in decision-making and to establish architecture as a value. But we are not clients, and that is the problem that arises. The section responsible for art and culture does not appear as a client, but only as an information platform or body where discussion contributions can be exchanged. I should like to sum up briefly the other contributions to the debate. Mrs Brinek has dealt with the subject of art mediation. I believe that if one starts from the future priorities of art policy, one must say that the creation of a work of art is divided into three sections: The first is the productive creation, the second the mediation, the possibility of applying the artwork to the audience, and the third to find a market for it. Our focus is on defining itself in the first two phases, and we are very well trying to put accents on mediation. I believe that modern art will no longer come true without mediation. Access to modern art is very difficult – I give you absolutely right – and it will be one of our priorities to convey. I believe that very good activities are already in place. I can only refer to the Children's Museum, which is also supported by our side. This is an approach that is actually tangible and should continue to be supported. Mrs Petrovic has referred to the relationship between artists and politics. I believe and try to say here again that this climate, to protect the artist from unwarranted attacks, is important. I believe that we must do everything we can to ensure that the possibilities of art are in no way restricted, that the possibility of making art take place in all its manifestations must be a state concern – not only a state concern, but also a social concern, in order to achieve the widest possible rejection of unjustified attacks against individual artists, which can be assessed as one wants. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Why?]] It is necessary to protect the art and the artist against these attacks. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Why? Why?]] You may like to have your personal opinion on a work of art, but in the end you have to protect the artists from attacks as long as they move within the framework of the laws. Why don't you pursue anyone else who moves under the laws, or do you want to? [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Is he under a slump?]] I put this question in the room: Do you stop with the artists, or does this go beyond the sphere of the artists? This is my question, which I have to ask myself in connection with these arguments. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Why don't you protect me from attacks?]] I also believe it is important to make it clear clearly that we are very well aware of the social situation of artists. We have commissioned four studies to explore the social situation of the authors, the visual artists, the filmmakers and the musicians and to evaluate the activities of the cultural initiatives. That is, we are doing this analysis, which will then be included in our draft of the Künstler Social Security Act. We are in the process of analysing the state of the ist, in order to finally offer artists a viable and also tangible social security. The question of the multiannuality of the Treaties is a fundamental question. There are essentially several-year contracts in some areas. I know that this has to be extended, of course, but it is nevertheless necessary to ensure that multi-annual contracts do not result in innovation or the attempt of individual institutions to do so because they are always relying on the perpetuated flow of money. I believe that a mixing system should be considered in this regard. That should be our goal. On the question of Mrs Ablinger, I can say that women's access to the Philharmonic is guaranteed. The inclusion of women, of course, also depends on the fact that these ladies have the appropriate quality of artistic performance. [[Abg. Steibl: The women do the same as the men, please!]] But I am convinced that the Philharmonics cannot give up half of the creative potential of our people, which is a question that will be settled by itself. I assume that in some time we can expect some women to be at the Philharmonics. This problem is now solved by itself, the possibilities are given. I hope it will only take more time and use all my influence so that it will actually take place. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to say the following and therefore also conclude my remarks on the allegation that rejected requests for support are not justified: This is a double-edged sword. I believe that artists who are rejected would not be very happy with the reason given to them when it might be read that the quality of the work of art does not correspond to, and that reason is also given to others. One would, I believe, harm the artist more with such a reason than if one told him that this time your request could not be made positively, but the next time, of course, you have the opportunity to get into the art promotion with a new project. Finally, I would like to appeal again to all the parties in this House not to emotionalize art and to grant artists the freedom to be granted to them in every society of course. Only the freedom of society is to read about how to deal with the artists, and this freedom that we have given to ourselves with our rules of the game should not be put at risk by discussion, by emotionalizing, by making contempt and by reducing it. – I think a confession for Austrian artists is also a confession to the freedom of this society.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e7821	Thank you very much, Mr State Secretary. Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Stadler. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e7848	Mr President. High house! The Secretary of State has just made the incorrect claim in his contribution to the debate that Nitsch has adhered to the laws in his odious six-day slaughter game and is moving within the framework of the laws. – This is incorrect. It is true, rather, that Nitsch initially violated national law in the first phase of his six-day game. From this patch the head of state of Lower Austria helped him most personally, as Nitsch thanked him. Second, Nitsch has also violated the criminal code, against § 188 StGB "Degradation of religious teachers", which is evident in particular from Foregger-Serini, a comment that should be known to you as a lawyer.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e7884	The Secretary of State has spoken. Please, Mr State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e7905	First of all, the quote is wrong, which you mentioned here, and secondly, there is no criminal conviction that would confirm it. This is an opinion of you and cannot therefore be considered as the basis of a correction.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e7933	Mr Dr. Kurzmann. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e7954	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Otto Mühl, Hermann Nitsch, Cornelius Kolig, to mention just three examples – these are the products of your red and black cultural policy. They have subsidized and promoted these people who like to call themselves artists for decades. What is happening to you in today's debate and is also disturbing – and this is also evidenced by your reactions – is that we liberals inform the public and also tell your electorate that you are partly funding perversities and that you are also provoking violence against children. In this context, I only remember the disgusting piece of "babysicker" and many other repressive works, which I believe are also criminal. You represent either a very dangerous Laisser-fair stand in your art and cultural policy either from within conviction or from a day-political opportunism. On the other hand, we liberties say to Norbert Readers, who will say something in social democracy, and the vast majority of the Austrian population: The art should be free, but not until the arson. Ladies and gentlemen! What I brought you today is surely spiritual arson for part of our society, a large part of our society. Ewald Stadler has shown you the picture before the summer holidays. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: You should know what spiritual arson is!]] It is Mother Teresa, a religious woman who has made himself deserved and here, I would like to show this to the Christian Democratic representatives of the ÖVP, in a reprehensible way. [[Abg. Dr Schmidt: How right you are!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Mein Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! Before you get so upset about a liberal, rather take a spiritual inspiration from the victorious Edmund Stoiber from Bavaria, then you may finally be successful and not go from one election to the next! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Now, if you accuse the Freedom Party, we're talking about a new censorship, that's just ridiculous. It is absurd for a movement that can rightly call on the historical traditions of the year 1848 to simply put in place censorship plans, as the Secretary of State does. It was our political predecessors who, 150 years ago, were committed to freedom of expression and press and also to the constitution, that is, the Constitution, a constitutional state and civil rights, as well as to censorship and the Metternich system. It was the same people who fought for their freedom ideas on the barricades of Vienna. But at that time this struggle was not led for an anarchist concept of freedom, but for a freedom in responsibility which we, too, strive for today. Ladies and gentlemen! Mühl, Nitsch, Kolig – these are names, these are synonyms that stand for the growth of a cultural policy that you are responsible for. The scandalous Mühl appearance in the Burgtheater has caused emotions throughout Austria – that has already been addressed. It is known by Hermann Nitsch that he was and is especially popular with the chancellors of both Chancellors Vranitzky and Federal Chancellors' Climate. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: You seem to want to despise people, or what do you want?]] Mrs. Dr. Schmidt! However, I am wondering - I am coming to this and I am going to read to you - whether the SPÖ representatives and the representatives of your party will not be bad if you, for example, read something from Mr Nitsch. I'm quoting you now from the Orgy Mysteries Theatre. I don't want to save you that. You should hear what this man wrote, and you should judge whether the freedom of art is. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: What is your alternative?]] Ladies and gentlemen! I quote Hermann Nitsch, "The conquest of Jerusalem", page 160 "The naked body of a nine-year-old girl is laid on a church bench; the family part of the girl is cluttered up; with a silver sin several times deep into it; the part of the family is broken with a scalpel; [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: What is your alternative? Is it the book burning you want?]] sugar water is poured on the bloody wound; Number O sucks and swallows the sugary blood from the carnage." - That's how it goes for a long time. [[Abg. Dr. Stippel: This speech is a game of mourning!]] This is the policy you support, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This quote – I could still quote for a long time – I do not want to save you. Because this, ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy, is the freedom of art that you defend. I think that this has absolutely nothing to do with freedom of art, which is a repugnant appeal, Mrs Dr Schmidt, to the disgrace of bodies, to the disgrace of women's bodies and children's bodies. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: You just want to ban it! What do you want?]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Mrs. Oberlehrer! If you don't know yet, it's already forbidden!]] This is absurd, and I think that someone who writes such a thing, who thinks it, is actually a case for the psychiatrist, but also for the prosecutor. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Morak: What is this case that reads it over and over again?]] Mr. Morak! I understand you're trying to push me to the Black Peter now, so to speak, but these are piglets. In fact, "Ferkelei" is a sourry opposite the pig. [[Abg. Morak: Do you like reading it? – You like to read it!]] No, I'll read it to you so that you can't press ahead with your responsibilities. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] As far as the 1996 art report is concerned, I can only imagine the criticism of an independent journalist. Hans Haider... – I understand your emotions because we reveal what you want to cover. [[Calls and calls between the ÖVP and the liberals.]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Hans Haider from the newspaper "Die Presse" already in April... [[Abg. Wabl: What would you do if you were Minister of Culture?]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Don't promote this art!]] – I would not promote such things, not promote them for decades – to answer your question. Of 700 million Schilling, three fifths – an independent journalist writes – went to SPÖ-dominated clubs. This has already been mentioned by a colleague of my group. [[Calls and appeals to the liberals, the Greens and the ÖVP.]] A fifth of the subsidies went to ÖVP-dominated companies and cooperatives, and only one fifth, ladies and gentlemen, benefited non-party-affected artists or art associations. In the Middle Ages, ladies and gentlemen, the emperors and princes held court fools and playmen. I have the impression that the government parties are similar to the one or the other state artist. This dependency ratio is particularly evident in elections, in which so-called Celebrities Committees make and advertise propaganda for the respective candidates of one or another government party. What we want is the freedom of the artists from party political constraints. We also want artists who are aware of their social responsibility.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e8199	Mr Grollitsch has also been mentioned on the floor. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e8220	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! The left, supposedly advanced cultural garden, richly fertilized with dung, drives a new weed. Sandler event is called this new plant, better planting. The Beet is this year's "steirische Herbst", the questionable gardener of the left-wing radical Anarcho director Christoph Schlingensief. Graz will see the biggest Sandler meeting that ever existed, claims the self-proclaimed artist and goes on to say: Graz can take this as a declaration of war. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Oha!]] – Schlingensief, 5. ==References== The reference work, which the German Anarcho director, as he likes to call himself, has brought the invitation to the "steiric autumn", is his eye-catching posters from the previous year – with the call "Kötet Kohl!" Or, "Practice crimes, you will know how it is!" [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Hand out of your pants! Get out of your pants!]] Mr. Cap! I'm clear that you're intervening here. Your group has taken over the cultural agendas in Styria. This meeting is the birth of it. In order not to be misunderstood: We liberals have nothing against it if beggars, sanders or people who feel addressed with this term meet somewhere. But it is not of sensitivity that one chooses Graz. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: You already had your hand in your pants!]] If these people meet there, Mr Cap, for example, to complain about the new poverty, about the social reduction caused by your group, or to proclaim other things, they are not prepared to do so. But to sell this as art, to promote it with tax money and to proclaim it as the mega-event in Styria, but the liberals in the city of Graz, in the country of Styria and also our parliamentary group are speaking out here. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr. Cap! If you have a different art concept than ours, live with it! We too live with it. However, we do not allow the Secretary of State to do so in a polarizing form – you did so with your last speech – to drive a rope between the artists of Austria and the Freedom Party. We demand Your name, Mr. State Secretary: End the Hatz on the Freemans in this context! [[Abg. Dr. Cap: What does your hand do in your pants?]] We have an art understanding, and I myself allow myself to be regarded as a representative of the same, Mr Cap, even though you still laugh so contemptuously. I've been doing the management of the musical youth in Styria for 26 years. I have organized more than 300 concerts – my musical art concept is a very broad one – for the Styrian youth. I do not let you, but I do not let you, Mr State Secretary, influence and disdain me in this regard. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e8305	Mr Morak has been mentioned in the debate. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e8326	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The FPÖ is clearly discussing its most important theme of the season, and its supervisor shines by absence. That only to the value of a cultural discussion within the FPÖ. [[Abg. Where's Mr. Khol?]] [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Where is yours? Where's yours?]] It is also clear when you weigh the arguments against each other that your supervisor shines by escape. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Now let me say a few words about the art report before we go to the inside. It is, of course, a little tragic to a little ridiculous that we are talking about the 1996 art report in September 1998. This statement has often been popular today, one cannot say it often enough. It can't go on if we take ourselves half seriously. I would remind the Secretary of State that we also discussed in committee that the art report should appear in a timely manner, so that we can then discuss issues which we still have somewhere in tangible memory and which were not up-to-date two years earlier. I only remember the staff of the IKM who said that they had developed a computer program, which would make it possible to create the data in time, that is, in January, so that a few weeks later one could be pressured. I think it would be very desirable to come up with a solution here. Let me say a few positive things about the art report. It's the overview, it's the comparison, it's the comparison we have, and the clarity, back to the year 1990. [[Clubobmann Dr. Khol enters the meeting room.]] [[Calls and calls between the ÖVP and the liberals.]] The cultural expenditure of the Federal Government, the Länder and the municipalities also shows relations, for example, that we are only talking about more than 7 per cent of the cultural funding in that country today. Over 7 percent! And that's why this excitement, ladies and gentlemen? That's not necessary. The system of data collection has been made by Likus. This scheme has so far been taken up by six federal states, which has a positive impact on the comparability of cultural promotion and continues to make it possible to achieve better. The question of curators seems to me to be complementary. I would very much like to see some reports on the curators in which what they have done. This is because the model is very different compared to art promotion in this country. Curators are installed with very own views and access to art promotion. They should also be given the opportunity to say in the art report what they want, or to inform the Committee on Culture, what is going on at all. Exciting it would be to evaluate this curator model once; I would like to see the result: What are the overheads? What are the cost of production? What about traditional cultural administration? How much art money is there? I believe that this is a very important issue in this country, especially in view of the fact that the budgets are not getting higher. How much art money actually reaches the artists in this country, and how much remains in the administration? – There is quite a presumption that this quota is 90 percent. This is in need of change. I think that the Secretary of State should give an answer at some point. Secondly, I believe that a cost structure of the department would not be uninteresting after the regional distribution of the arts resources. I am still in the ears of the 1995 art report that an East-West incident has been sued. As a third point, I would like to ask: What happens to the studies you order? – I have been trying for quite a long time now to get the study on the social situation of authors. I haven't gotten them until today. There is – you have already mentioned it – an evaluation of Austrian cultural initiatives by 700 000 S, the value of art by 1.5 million schilling, the study of the social and economic situation of authors – also in about 1.3 million schilling. I think it would be interesting for the Committee on Culture to make this available – a proposal on kindness. On the topic of film: That's an eternal theme of mine. Of course, it is not done to say that we make 100 million schilling more available to the Austrian film – one, two years as a bridge aid. It is therefore an eternal topic, because we are going from one economy to another, namely on the one hand, to order film and on the other hand not to make film possible. In Austria, we do not have scriptwriters at international level. There is no infrastructure at international level. There is, of course, no money available because there are no depreciation models, and I think we have no producers at all, as was the case at the last Lehner production. I mean, money is one, building structures in this area is the other. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And now I want to come to the subject that I have been following yesterday and, of course, once again attracted the liberals, not entirely out of disuse, that must be said already. I would like to say a few words about this. Of course, there are people who have problems with cultural production – and that is what I mean now across all parties – that do not understand what is going on here, who do not know exactly what it means. I want to put myself in the position of these people, and I do so by saying that I also have problems, for example with quantum physics or with a particle accelerator. But I don't take it out here to say: They're all criminals, they're all scumbags, they're all idiots. That must be clear once! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] So I think we should come to an attitude here – and I do not exclude the liberals – where we ask ourselves: How can we tolerate this? How can we deal with the misunderstanding? Remarkable is that only, striking that will only be... [[Abg. Scheibner: Explain this to me!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: I would like to understand, Mr Morak! Explain this to me!]] Listen to me, then you'll understand! At the end of this century, it will only be striking if we are still dealing with people and politicians, especially politicians, who have not read their joys, who have not read their Kafka, who have not read their carvings, who deny the abysses of the soul – for something else can't be why you read it all the time here – and the against better knowledge from political calculation the Stone Age here in the 21st century. Moving from the 20th century!- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ as well as the Liberal Forum.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] – I can also tell you quietly: the Stone Age into the 21st century. ==References====External links== I would like to remind those people who may have a problem with modern art of a rock musician named Frank Zappa, who once said: It's not a sound on my guitar so cruel to be able to represent war, death, death and suffering. In a time when we are constantly confronted with images of real events on TV that are so horrendous that they are people in truth unthinkable, you plead for the eternal Biedermeier Biedermeier in the theatres, in the visual art, in the film, in the books, everywhere. [[Abg. Young: All the more we need is good, positive!]] So I have to tell you if it went to you, there wouldn't even have been Grimm's fairy tales. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ, the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] Art is: As if! That's what the newspapers wrote to you, the people told you: As if! That's a fiction. And a fiction isn't an unpleasant thing, even if you're different. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That's something they don't understand!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: In Parliament, he is currently playing the rumple style!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] In view of the genocide to the German and Austrian Jews to write the word "tat" and to write about the locus "place", in view of this fact, a desperate euphemism. The term "faecal art", which you always use, is far too short here. You'd like to. This is less than a description of the facts, because the art leaves out here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] Look, Mr. Stadler! We met you today: not as Stadler, but as St. Adler. Dear St. Adler! Or should I say to you, Mr Ajatollah? Because you want to ban them, you want to kill them, you want to turn them off, you want to destroy them. That's what you want. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] And if the St. Adler's... [[Lively calls to the liberals.]] [[President Dr. Brauneder gives the bell sign.]] Look, Mr. Mühl's for his crimes... I'm sorry. [[Abg. May. Stadler: If you're performing the rumpel styling, you'll have to step up with your foot!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Then you are perfect!]] I'll leave that to you. You can do it very well, Mr. Stadler. You can do it very well. [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] No, no, no! Sorry! The role of the well poisoner in this house is forgiven, and that's what you do. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr. Mühl has been sitting for his crimes for six years, and I can only tell you... [[Call to the liberals: Too little!]] Then we should decide another law. By the way, it has already been decided. He's been sitting for six years, and in the framework of the laws, that was almost a maximum punishment. But I have to tell you: The one who has made advertising for the rape of the women there, for the rape of the children there, for the exploitation of an authority relationship, for the bribery of the witnesses, that is your Europe MP. And the mouse does not bite a thread. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Then the mouse will not bite off a thread. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Now do what you always blame us!]] But I've got some sort of suspicion when there's a choice somewhere – and in your head there's always a choice, there's always "Gong!": Electoral day! I'll get up at five tomorrow! Electoral day! Yes, yes, yes! – then, among other things, the artists always have to stay here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler]] That's clear. So the shark doesn't pay rent. He pays the club because he earns only 60,000 p. – Bimsdi! The nitch gets one over it! The Gratzer decomposes the "F" in Lower Austria. Bimsdi! The "sport" of the Jellinek is cruel, a crime! The Rosenstingl goes with 250 million, Huuiiit, to South America. – The colig must be destroyed! Yes! [[Cheerfulness and applause with ÖVP and SPÖ, with the Greens as well as with the Liberal Forum.]] A "F" municipality deals with child pornography. – Of course it wasn't! The H.C. Artmann or Publik Netbase are to blame. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meisinger.]] [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] Yeah, yeah. I have to tell you: Just keep the Austrian artists out! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: As "Froschkönig" you liked me better!]] They say the truth very often. We'll keep you away, too. And you say relatively often the untruth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e8648	Mr Dr. Haider is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e8746	Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, Mr Morak's longing calls force my ear that he already misses me so much because he likes to have a qualified audience at his lectures and performances, and now it doesn't fit again. [[Rejoicing with the Freemans]] I would just like to thank you, Mr Morak – that is the real reason for my speech – on behalf of the Liberal Group. Because what you have said here is well suited to be distributed and brought to the people especially in the elections that you have repeatedly criticized by us. [[Call: Yes! Bravo]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is precisely the attitude of the People's Party, the People's Party, which is on the move outside and is disheartened by Mr. Nitsch, who, from the head of state, Schausberger to the President of the State of Wutte – all ÖVP people – find this disgusting. And inside, the cultural speaker then acts and constantly defames the party that dared to make niche on the subject because we believe that the freedom of art finds its limits where it becomes humane, where it violates human rights, where it violates religious feelings. And this, Mr Morak, also applies to your Christian ÖVP. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] However, they are not willing to do so once again in the public debate. It's nice to have a little theatre to do so you get the applause from the left. But that's the wrong side. Don't choose them, Mr. Morak. They are elected by a qualified citizen, who expects to have moral standards, and to express them where, in the end, human culture is subsidized. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You can do anything in this country, everyone should have the freedom of artistic activity, there should be no limits in this Austria. They don't need us to constantly subversively subvert us so that we will do away with it. No, no, no, We acknowledge that this freedom of culture should exist without any State barriers. [[Abg. Morak: Does the Stadler know?]] But – and I formulate it for you –: The limits are really human rights for us, the limits are for us the violation of religious feelings, and the limits are for us, Mr Morak, also where weak people are suffering in our society. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Who defines that? Who defines religious feelings?]] For example, this is a form of representation that encourages violence on children. [[Abg. Wabl: That's not true!]] I can only repeat it again and again for you: A biennial catalogue, which is also supported by the Federal Chancellor with the consent of your ÖVP in the Federal Government, in which large pictures of children who are illiterate are found, in which you show naked babies and put together sexual parts of adults – this is for us a call for violence against children. And you can't go beyond that! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Morak keeps a document up to date.]] You can keep it as high as you want! That is something that should in fact link us, and I do not understand why you have a Foreign Minister and Federal Party, who will also present a work by Otto Mühl in the context of an exhibition abroad, so to speak, on the mother Teresa as a shaky old man next to Mühl and consorts, including the FPÖ politician. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Brinek.]] Yes, we are also affected, dear Mrs. Brinek! Ladies and gentlemen! They're promoting this! We're saying that's a piggy! Such a thing does not belong to promoted. – And that’s the difference! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Let the artists have freedom! They should be able to do everything they can, as Mr Kolig can do everywhere. But with our tax money, that must not happen! [[Abg. May. Stadler: Yes!]] That's the crucial difference! [[New condolences with the liberals.]] If you travel through the country today, every country politician of the ÖVP, every Member who sits here, will tell you in private: You're right! You're right, it's a piggy, what's happening here. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: That's total nonsense!]] Or do you think that fecal culture, one of which gilds or places its heads somewhere and for which it receives a few hundred thousand shills of subsidies, is really art for which people want to work and pay taxes? Faith You really think it's art when an artist like Mr. Kolig makes a original staff – a glass bar in which he enters – and then sells it to the country of Carinthia by 31,000 S? What do you think, then, is the normal employee, who has to pay his taxes – and they are getting higher and higher – when he sees what happens to his tax money? – Poverty, on the other hand, is ignored, positive works are ignored. And so there must be the liberals: So that you can become more decent by the ÖVP and remember that you also have a moral responsibility. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Wormitzer: Nice! You're not allowed to talk "decently"!]] This, ladies and gentlemen, is the debate. No other party in the federal states – read it in the newspapers! – Mr. Nitsch attacked so brutally during the niche discussion. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: How the FPÖ!]] Read it once! And now you can read in the magazine "NEWS" that Mr. Nitsch says: It is wonderful that now I am the most skilled to the blacks who used to persecute me. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: You're twisting this!]] I owe you all the permits. People like Pröll are apparently beginning to appreciate which artists they have in Lower Austria. – Well, if you don’t read books yourself, you’re just organizing artists of dubious value. So that's your policy, mine. Ladies and gentlemen: Double-handed! Janus head! [[Abg. Ellwall: As the slug thinks, so is it!]] Mr Morak! I would sign a lot of what you say here if you made sure that this will be implemented in your party. But dancing on two parish halls usually doesn't work. You want to be more socialist than the socialists, you want to instrumentalize the culture, you want to subsidize a Clique that then politically takes the chestnuts out of the fire for you. We will not play that because the decent and diligent Austrians want another way!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e8981	Mr Cap has also been mentioned in the speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e9002	Mr President. High house! Only a brief replica to the statements that have yet to come and in which accusations have been raised which cannot be contradicted. We were accused that cultural policy would be an ideology area for us to move political artists around. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: That's how you do it all the time!]] I should like to ask the opposite question: What if Mr. Schender sat in the People's Procuratorate and was previously in a state government? Is this a politicist or is he right there because he should be a popular lawyer? We could ask: What about the mayor of Graz, with Alexander Götz, who then suddenly sat at the Graz fair? Was that a politicist or did he have tasks to perform there? [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You are very weak today!]] It's transparent what you're doing here, completely transparent and double-bedded. And I'll tell you: This kind of discussion is aimed at itself! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You're uncomfortable!]] I'm not Your therapist – thank God I am not You therapist! – but as you have acted today – and this reminds me of a performance by Mr. "Porno-Humer" in Upper Austria at a public event – the way you quote this over and over again, how you always present the images here, how you use terms that are not really used in personal conversations, it is clear that you have a certain sense of pleasure here. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You are a case of therapy yourself!]] I have never seen Mr Stadler as relaxed as he did today after his speech. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] And I am resisting this kind of criminalization of an art and culture debate, as we are doing today. Dear Dr. Haider, one question: If you say that the promotions for these artists mentioned by you are obscene, translated, and heard, then I wonder: What's more obscene? [[Abg. Dr. Haider: I didn't say that! I didn't say "obscene"!]] After what happened in your party with the 200, 300 million schillings, which the devil knows where to go, we should actually discuss whether it is not obscene that the FPÖ is referring to public funds from somewhere. That's the truth! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Your hand movements are obscene, otherwise nothing!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: If he doesn't prepare for a speech, he's weak!]] I would therefore urge that we hold cultural debates in this House in a different form than you have tried to do this today: You instrumentalize them, you want to make them the subject of an argument, if you believe that this serves in the short term your election strategy and election tactics. You want to distract from the events, you want to look for other topics. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You want to practice censorship! They want to determine what culture is!]] This is your strategy you are introducing here. I find this to be objectionable, I think that it ultimately casts a bad picture on the whole house – it is transferred, it is reported – and I believe that this in the final effect of Austria, the Austrian image and the Republic as a whole is damaging. It is therefore important that there is a clear and clear contradiction here within the framework of the Constitutional Archipelago, in order to really represent these twice as many things as you are bringing in here.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e9162	No one is reporting on this. That concludes the debate. A final word by the rapporteur does not take place. We shall therefore proceed to the vote, and we shall vote on the Committee's request to take note of this report III-130 of the supplements. Whoever stands up for the notice, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the majority. The report has been taken note of. 2. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 854/A by Dr Peter Kostelka, Dr Andreas Khol and Comrades on a Federal Act amending the Federal Presidential Election Act 1971, and on the motion for a resolution 775/A by Dr Jörg Haider and comrades concerning a federal law with which the Federal Presidential Election Act 1971, BGBl. No. 57, as last amended by the Federal Act BGBl. No. 339/1993, amended (1394 of the Supplements) 3rd. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 853/A by Dr Peter Kostelka, Dr Andreas Khol and Comrades on a federal law amending the People's Rights Act 1973, and on amendment 429/A by Mr Mag. Dr. Heide Schmidt and comrades concerning a federal law amending the People's Desire Act 1973 (1395 of the Supplements) 4. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 856/A by Dr Andreas Khol, Dr Peter Kostelka and Comrades on a Federal Act amending the 1992 National Council Election Order (1396 of Supplements) 5. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 852/A by Dr Andreas Khol, Dr Peter Kostelka and Comrades on a Federal Act amending the European electoral system (1397 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e9269	We now come to points 2 to 5 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are therefore going into the debate. The first speaker was Mr Mag. Stadler. 10 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e9296	High house! I should like to put forward a motion for a resolution from my group in the first place. [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Liberal Group has already submitted an application to amend the Federal Presidential Election Act, which has been implemented almost 100% in the government template. That is why we have agreed to this part of the so-called democratic package, with this title of course exaggerating and grossly speaking, because what has been sold here as a democratic package – I said it in the early days – is a maximum of a "democracy pack" in the size of a slipping tobacco box. There's no more in there. It is indeed – and in this respect also the criticism of Mrs Schmidt – not a democratic package, but a marginal adjustment, a change that has simply and simply resulted in the development of electoral law. It is true, ladies and gentlemen, that no one in this House will be able to support more than one election on the Federal President's election in the future. This case of sin at the time committed the woman Schmidt when she supported her own counterpart and then was offended that she received more votes than she herself, which was not art, ladies and gentlemen. It is true that it has been abolished that Members have at all the privilege of supporting a Federal Presidency candidate without having to seek the support of the population. This would have saved the voters a great deal of money, especially as far as Mrs Schmidt is concerned, since she would certainly not have been able to bring in the necessary number of support signatures. That's why she was jealous of her opponent Dr. Klestil. It was therefore necessary to update the Federal Presidential Election Act in order to abolish these privileges. This may also explain why, in particular, the Liberal Forum and the Greens are so violently polemizing against these novels. But this is already with the agreement with the government groups, because this is, as it were, the first part that is still acceptable and that more democracy with regard to the Federal President's right to vote is to be achieved. However, the novelle becomes a popular desire law. For the first time, the number of persons entitled to vote will no longer be reduced to the question of the necessary number of support signatures for the introduction of a popular desire, but to the population of residence, i.e. Austrian nationals plus foreigners. Explain to us, Mr State Secretary, the intention behind this! Do you want to creep and cross the back door, a bit and then a bit again, to introduce the foreign election right? - I think you want to. I'll take it from you right away. Your colleagues in the political groups want to do so, too. I'm just saying: We liberals don't want that! And neither do the Austrians, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We want the measure, the target group of democratic participation of citizens to remain. It must still be worth Austrian citizenship for the participation in democracy in Austria. That is why we are against the fact that the right of foreigners to vote is to be introduced step by step through the back door, even if it only starts in the People's Desire Act. There is no rational reason, Mr State Secretary, to make the number of people living on the basis of the calculation of the number of support signatures. There's no such thing as that. He's not rational. He's arbitrary, he's ideologically motivated. And that is why we are already saying no to this novice of the popular desire law. But there is another reason, and Mr Khol was so kind to disclose him in committee. It has clearly shown that the popular desire for the euro that the FPÖ has brought in was reason and reason to think about how to prevent a political party from initiating a popular desire over its mandates in the future. Ladies and gentlemen! I'll tell you right now, just so you don't give yourself an illusion: We will without fail have the political power, which has political potential, in each of our national groups – and I say so immediately – to provide the appropriate support for the introduction of a popular desire in each of the nine federal states in Austria. Those who do not have this power will be smaller groups, because they will have to collect between 8,000 and 10,000 signatures in the future, but then, ladies and gentlemen, there will be money. And that is the third reason why we reject it. If the popular desire reaches 100,000 signatures, then you get the 30 000 S return that you had to lay down before – and now 150 000 S additional replacements are coming, ladies and gentlemen! This is an election funding for the field, for the outside field, for all these left-wing small groups in the environment of the Greens, in the context of social democracy and so on. This is hidden party funding. So far, one had to loosen a little from the party's fund for these organizations so that they could articulate themselves politically. This is justifiable, it is not inappropriate, nor has Mr Kostelka yet blamed anyone. But now the whole thing is supposed to be officially... – No, I just accused him of letting money flow from the club bank into the party bank. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: You did it!]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Against which there are no objections from the Court of Auditors or the Public Prosecutor's Office!]] Mr Kostelka! It's an accusation that I don't have copyright at all. I do not have the copyright in this allegation at all. This is your business leader Andreas Rudas, because in this environment the anonymous indicator you have shown is to be looked for. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: As far as you are concerned, we have no financial problems!]] It's not nice if you get an anonymous ad from your own party. You have to admit that. That's where I feel sorry for him. But, ladies and gentlemen, you should not, in order to be able to operate your field of action financially, get into the pockets of taxpayers and here introduce a scheme that will ensure that every 150 000 s is thrown into revenge in the future. And the Greens have got the same desire and have said: Can it be a little more? Mr Stoisits has asked for equal to 300 000 s. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Double!]] Doubled right now! This is, of course, open up to what you can afford here. And the decisive thing, ladies and gentlemen, is that this is paid without proof. It is not necessary to show how much has been spent on advertising, for postage and the like. 150 000 S plus 30 000 S, in total 180 000 S, without proof of the costs, are distributed to the operators of a popular desire – and that in savings times! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Such a Murks!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: To whom does such a thing come to mind?]] That's what I asked myself: These are the great political statements of democracy, which are then called great "democracy package", ladies and gentlemen. This is the democratic package of this federal government! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You must be really glad that you did not think of this package any more. I am glad that you yourself say this is a huge package and not a package, as we say, because if you bind a package, it will probably be even more expensive for the taxpayer than it is anyway. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr State Secretary! You cannot expect a political group, which takes the first severance seriously, to take the second seriously the careful handling of the taxpayer... – Mr Posch, we will do this for you. [[Abg. May. Posch: Who do you mean with the saving family?]] They have not managed – and I am already a little proud today as a neonderAustrian – to push a lazy plum into our hands with corrupt officials on this question! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We show you how to reorganise a party without using the taxpayer. And we don't need a state mortgage bank like in Salzburg. For this we do not need public funds as you constantly need in the Lower Austria group of your SPÖ. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Similar things are planned in Salzburg!]] We don't need that. We'll do it ourselves. We're organizing it ourselves. We don't need your bank equipment to do that. We are glad if you do not abuse this bank apparatus to make a democratic opposition party mouth dead. Ladies and gentlemen! We will certainly not be able to agree with this so-called democratic package, this "snip tobacco box", which costs taxpayers only a lot of money. All you can expect from us is an approval of the novel of the Federal President's right to vote, because it will prevent the growings that Mrs Schmidt unfortunately produced in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e9458	Mrs Hlavac is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e9479	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! There has already been a very strong debate in the early part-session on the question of sensibility and the extent of the reforms to be adopted today. I therefore think that it is necessary to explain briefly what is actually planned and, in addition, to say that these are useful and necessary measures. The laws to be adopted today are about facilitating voters and facilitating the initiators of popular desires. And it is about the particular position which Members have so far had in connection with election proposals and popular desires and which is now to be eliminated. In particular, the innovations on the National Council's electoral system and the European electoral system provide relief for disabled people. It is planned that at least one constituency shall be set up in each municipality and in Vienna in such a way that it is accessible to the disabled. The European electoral system provides for the use of aid, stencils, which make it difficult to see the disabled or blind voters to choose independently and on their own. Of course, they can continue to take a trustee into the election cell, but it should also allow those who want to do this independently and alone to do so. We have not decided on an analogy for the National Council election because... [[Abg. Haidlmayr: Why?]] I'd like to explain that to you. We have been discussing this for a long time, but such a template only makes sense if it is simple and clear, only then it is an aid. As there is the possibility not only of electing the party but also of a candidate for the regional elections to cross a candidate, that is to say to give a preferential vote, this would be a very complicated matter. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: Where is the problem?]] We are committed to the need to provide aid for the blind, and we have therefore also adopted a resolution that the Ministry of the Interior, together with the disabled, should seek a solution. I do not think it would be useful, very quickly, just so that it is from the table to make a regulation similar to the European electoral system, but it would not have brought the disabled. Other changes relate to the reduction of the time period for setting up electoral lists and simplifying voting abroad. In the Federal Presidential Election Act there are some important innovations: The period between the first and an arbitrary second election is reduced to three weeks. The right of the authorised representatives of an election proposal to exchange the constituency after the first election shall be deleted. In addition, there are changes in the number of campaigners after the alphabet and the cashless deposit of the election fee is made possible. In the People's Desire Act, the limit for the introduction of 10,000 signatures is reduced to a promill of the residential population. So that's about 8,000 signatures. Members can no longer make an introductory request. The possibility of non-cash payment of the cost of printing will be provided as well as the reimbursement of the cost of printing plus 150 000 S if popular demand has been successful, i.e. if the necessary 100 000 signatures have been obtained. I would like to make an amendment in connection with this People's Demand Act, which is also an improvement and relief. [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr President, I request that this amendment be included in the debate. To sum up, I would like to say that a number of useful and useful measures will be taken with this package. The most important and, as it were, not completely undisputed is the abolition of the higher weighting of the Members' signatures in the introduction of the electoral proposal for the Federal President's election and the introduction of a popular desire. In connection with popular desire, however, I would like to say that it should not be an instrument of Members - and not necessarily an instrument of parties that are already represented in the National Council - but, above all, it should serve citizens, organisations, associations, people who work together to articulate concerns. The abolition of the possibility of initiating a popular desire by the signature of a Member of Parliament therefore seems justified to me, and I do not see in it any restriction on the rights of a Member or even his free mandate, as claimed in a newspaper, because the Member has at any time the possibility of submitting proposals for initiative – admitted, not alone – and he or she also has the opportunity to support petitions so that they must be discussed in Parliament. I believe that the possibilities of a Member of Parliament are sufficient and that he should not articulate himself by means of a popular desire. If he or she nevertheless signs a popular desire, out of sympathy and in order to express his solidarity, he or she can continue to do so, but this signature counts only like all the other signatures. I mentioned it earlier: A number of measures will be taken to facilitate the introduction of popular desires, and I therefore believe, even if not all the wishes are fulfilled, that these are useful measures which we place here. In connection with the Federal Presidential election, I think, the same applies. It has been shown during the debates on the introduction of electoral proposals for the Federal presidential election in spring that the fact that parliamentary signatures can replace 1,500 other signatures is based on incomprehensibility and also on the inconsistency of many people who do not understand this different weighting. In fact, it should be possible for a candidate or candidate who wishes to vote and takes his own candidate seriously to obtain 6,000 signatures. I therefore believe that this is a reasonable arrangement and that the removal of the provision so far is justified. Finally, I would like to say that the debate on the further development of democracy, on the relationship between direct democracy and representative democracy, on the role of Parliament, on the role of individual parliamentarians, of course, must be further debated, including in the context of a reform of the Rules of Procedure which must be sought here. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] What we are going to decide today is just one stage, but there are some important questions that have been dealt with here, and one should not now pretend to be insignificant and insignificant.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e9556	The application submitted complies with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and is therefore under negotiation. The same applies to the motion for a resolution tabled earlier by Mr Stadler on the implementation of successful popular desires. The next Mrs. Dr. Schmidt is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e9584	Mr President. [[President Dr. Brauneder is still at the Bureau.]] No, no, no, Mr President! Mr State Secretary! It is estimated that a few of your colleagues are still here. It is remarkable that Mr Klubobmann Khol's essential legislative package, so highly stylized, which is to be discussed and decided here, meets with such attention from his own group. This is so remarkable because he is the one I hear about – but perhaps the customs have changed in the meantime – that he always places great importance on being present, and especially in the case of such an essential matter it could have been. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: I'm not often your opinion, but you're right!]] However, I am not surprised at the fact that all of this is a truly forward-looking alibi action in order not to have to be blamed, as he himself said, that the coalition did not bring together any law at the beginning. However, the fact that these proposals are muttered with the concept of a democratic package is a question of concern, for this is an erodement of this concept, a watering-up, and it must not be surprising that the concept of democracy will have a different meaning in itself if it is misused for such acts. What we would have wanted would have been a real democratic reform. We were of the opinion that the government parties, especially the representatives of the government parties, are also ready to do so. We certainly would not have agreed on all points, but it is in the nature of the fact that a majority decision is ultimately taken. It would have been important to exchange arguments, to set up a catalogue where we believe that there is a need for action, in order to use the political language, and it would have been important to hold the discussion together, which areas and which materials are what we should talk about. Just as we did at the time, when we found out in the debate on the Rules of Procedure, that we need a catalogue for Parliament to determine where there are majority passages and where they are not, and where you still think it necessary to do something against the opposition. So the sighting and listing of the problem fields are a necessary condition if you seriously mean the word "democracy form". And we Liberals mean it seriously. Democracy reform is necessary. Our democracy has become really thin. The concept of democracy that democratic awareness of the population has – how am I supposed to say that? – not that firmness that should actually be a self-understanding. I still have a survey among young people in the bones, which, if I am not deceived, was carried out at the beginning of this year or at the end of last year, in which the usual calls, namely, "How do young people react to the famous reputation for the strong man and the like?" – You already know that – have been questioned. There have been terrifying figures. A number were particularly terrifying, and although 16 percent of the respondents said that there was actually no democracy or not. This means that it is necessary to show what is actually a democracy and how important it is and that it must be supported and not just a word, but that it must be lived, and that it must not only be borne by the population, but also by the instruments in order to allow it to live. That would have been the real task, and in line with this task and target formulation you should have done. We agree that there are also democratic destroyers who are politically organized, including in our country. So in this consciousness, we should have talked about what we need. [[Acclaim at the Liberal Forum and Abg. Oils.]] Thank you. But what came out is a joke, really a joke. Mr President Neisser meant it was just a pack and not a package. I also regard this as a benevolent expression. I have already said in the business debate today that I can only see this expression as a lapsus linguae. This is an mistaken expression, for otherwise I would be wrong, otherwise I would fear your concept of democracy, and I do not want to do so at all. That's why I'm saying: "Democracy Package" is an euphemistic, is an exaggerate one, at least it is a false expression for what we have in front of us today. If I recall what procedure you have put this into the plenary session with, I must say: This is really a new negative quality that you create here. You're pretending to be exaggerating from an opposition party. And the argument that Mrs Schmidt is now afraid that you will no longer be able to run is primitive. I can't do that. You're serious! If you transport this through the "Kronen Zeitung" – should be – then perhaps some reader or some reader might reach it, but I ask you not to bother us here in Parliament with such an argument, because otherwise I cannot feel it. So far, the Rules of Procedure, the Rules of Procedure - and I think I remember correctly - have never been dealt with without having been agreed among all the Members of the House before. But what you did this time is the negative quality leap bad because there was no contact. It has been made here today by Mr Klubobmann Khol and has said that there have been talks with those who wanted it. To this end, I must say: This is a distortion of reality, which is really more than unreasonable, Mr Klubobmann Khol! [[Acclaim at the Liberal Forum and Abg. Oils.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Go, please!]] What really happened, you know that very well! – Instead, you have found a president in whom you have tried to implement your calendar of appointments as you told him at the end of the session of the newspaper, with the support of the social democratic coalition partner, who could have imagined another way of going. It is true that Mr Klubobmann Kostelka considered possible in the short term. But you fixed the calendar before the summer, and then on the day before the meeting of the Constitutional Committee, you had your speaker call our speakers, and they said: Let's sit together, let's see what we're bringing together! Our speakers, who are used to working constructively with other parties, have come together. That's what you call party talks?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: What else is that?]] That's a cut-off of first rank! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum as well as on MEPs of the Greens.]] These discussions have not taken place among parliamentarians, not at the level we are used to, but because of the fairness and the usual working style of our speakers who have said: Let's talk about it! That was nothing else, and you know that! If you represent it differently here, then speak of the untruth or you argue unreasonablely, and you should not do so when it comes to a democratic package! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum as well as on MEPs of the Greens.]] There's something more to it: Proposals for initiatives are quite essential for Parliament because they are the direct instruments of parliamentarians. But something else is also an essential point, namely the implementation of review procedures. I believe that assessment procedures – and you are dealing with them more often, always out of self-interest and never out of force or hardly to prove the word "never" – have the meaning and purpose of not only conducting a public debate, but also of pooling knowledge, because more people usually offer the chance of more knowledge coming together. You have been very conscious of this discussion, you have deliberately not involved others, and, as has been said, you have not included the political groups of the House. And that's why our objection is not a polemic, not a rift, or a grievance. Instead, you have made a leap down in quality with the democratic package you mentioned, and that at the beginning of a session. That is what makes evil to expect! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I would now like to focus on the various areas. One area concerns the Federal Presidential Election Act, and I would just like to say briefly what I would have thought was much more important: We now have six years, we are at the beginning of the term of office, so I ask you: Where is the need to change the electoral order immediately at the first session? We have not even discussed this! It would have been far more important to see that in a comprehensive way, to talk about the competences of the President of the Federal Republic and about the relationship between the President and Parliament. That seems to me to be a very essential thing. I had to listen to a statement of government, like an ÖVP politician, when I was fishing for a Federal President, and I was not allowed to say anything about it. We agreed, all political groups, that this procedure should be considered. Only: If it is considered, it naturally has an impact on the tension relationship between the Federal President here and Parliament. This results in a number of conclusions. But this one must be considered. It has been a long time since the Federal President invited me to the sessions of the National Council. I wonder, What kind of self-conception of a Parliament is that we do not open our own session? What do we need the opening of the Federal President? [[Abg. Grossruck: Because he's the head of state!]] I also think that is an essential point. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I also do not understand that it is possible, although it is possible to ask parliamentary questions to the President of the Court of Auditors and to the President of the National Council, that possibility does not exist with the President of the Federal Republic of Germany. We have to weigh what we put in motion with it and whether we want it. But at least the need should exist in you to develop a little further in this area of democracy. Or do you want to continue to have a replacement icon? On the question of relations with Parliament there are still a number of other points, such as those concerning the term of office. I also believe that the discussion, which has only been publicly initiated, whether there should be a re-election or not, should also be carried out at parliamentary level. The only thing you do is to abolish the possibility that parties nominate a candidate. I know how unpopular it is to act against it, and I know that I am going directly to the knife of Mr. Khol, who then from his level – and I have already spoken of the "height" of this level – says: My God, the woman Schmidt is sorry that she can no longer run! - I'll buy it. You don't seem to think it's a better argument. I would like the minutes to be read by me and the Liberals that we think that this is a wrong course. I believe that you are promoting that trend, which is spread over different people, parties and newspapers, that in itself parties are something bad, that parties are peacocks, that politics is peacocks, by believing in the candidate for the highest office in the state to make a quality leap if only citizens and no longer parties can vote. I think this is a wrong course. You will decide with your majority. I know. What I have always thought to be wrong – and therefore I am grateful for the fact that we are now changing this – is that the list should depend on whether someone has been candidates by parties or citizens, and therefore the number of signatures will be assessed differently, depending on whether they are from citizens or from MEPs. That's not the point! The pattern after the alphabet is more true than it was before. This is a necessary change. But I think it is wrong for the parties to take the opportunity to send a candidate or a candidate into the race, because it is then the decision of the citizens whether they consider the candidate to be better or worse. Let the citizens decide and do not keep them going as you do now! I do not want to say any more on the subject of the Federal President for reasons of time, although there would be more to be said, and that was also the reason why we called for a subcommittee. Now on the subject of popular desire. I am referring directly to this because I spoke earlier about the fact that I think it is wrong for the President of the Federal Republic of Germany to stop supporting Members. In popular desire, it is completely different, because of that – and now I ask you not to react in a polemic way, but to deal with the way you think, even if you do not share it – because popular desire is an instrument of direct democracy. I therefore believe that it is right to leave it in its entire structure to remain an instrument of citizens. I have therefore always thought it wrong – I do not know whether it is always, but as soon as I have been working on it, so for a very long time – that parliamentarians are using an instrument of direct democracy if they can achieve the same thing through another way, namely their rights, their right to initiative, because this is the risk that something is instrumentalized, even misused, much bigger and one also gives the wrong message to the citizens. For this reason, we have already made a request a year ago that the possibility of introducing a popular desire by Members should no longer exist. They have not been bothering for a year for this request. He was now so important to you that you did not even want a subcommittee on this point and said that he heard it decided immediately. So much for your credibility! I would like to address Mr Stadler briefly because it is already significant that he has said that there is no reason at all for the number of declarations of support to the population. For him, for his way of thinking, there is no reason. For us, there is probably a reason for this, namely that rights and obligations should be balanced among those concerned and should not be based on the nationality of a person. You have to focus on how a person is affected. Of course, this also includes foreign citizens. I think that's right. Now I would like to make an amendment because I think it is unnecessary to work with promille numbers here. Let us take a very specific number, let us say that 8 000 signatures are to be! For reasons of time, I can't read our request anymore. The watch is already broken again, so it doesn't flash at me at the speaker's desk.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e9701	The watch is not broken, but it is still 5 minutes and 10 seconds, and therefore the watch does not blink.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e9716	Thank you many times, that calms me very much. However, I am not going to read the request, but I am saying that this is about 8 000 signatures. I would also like to make a point, and we will then put this to the vote, although we know that the majority will not go along, but I think it is a good idea that the age limit will at least be reduced to 16 years when a people's desire is introduced and implemented, once again from the feeling that democracy awareness should be developed as early as possible. I believe that the use of the instruments of direct democracy will develop this feeling and that this will also create quite different responsibilities. That is why our proposal is: 16 years of age to support popular desires. I'll invite you to agree. He was not discussed in the Committee. No one was willing to listen to any new proposal either. The second point is the 8,000 signatures I have already mentioned. These two points will be included in our request. I have to say now, where I see the great mancos in this democratic package. A manko is that we cannot even use the control instruments we have in Parliament due to refusal of discussion and reply. I assume that Mr Wabl, as Chairman of the Court of Auditors Committee, will remind you of some of the things in which we feel that Parliament's control is blocked, that it is being turned down, that it is simply cut off, so that control cannot be exercised. The same is the case with the People's Procuratorate. I referred to that yesterday. Before I come to the other parliamentary instruments which I would like to put to the conclusion of my remarks, I would like to point out to the Constitutional Court. This is a big block where we are now taking out only a part with a survey on thisting opinion. We're talking about control agencies. This is part of democracy. The Constitutional Court is an essential control instrument, and that means it has to work. This is also very much related to the order. The current ordering process is not one that serves to strengthen control instruments. That's got several reasons. I also consider the case law of the Constitutional Court to be increasingly political. For me, the Constitutional Court judgment in the case of family law was a parade example. I therefore appreciate the appropriate justification for less than the ideological partiality behind it, and I will not tire of mentioning it at any time. I think it is necessary for the ordering process to be preceded by a hearing, just as Parliament already does. Even if the result is not always one with which the opposition or the liberals agree, I think this is a right step. We would have had to oblige the government to do so, and we will put forward a motion for a resolution calling for the government to carry out a hearing before the President or Vice-President of the Constitutional Court is appointed. Furthermore, I do not see at all why the proposal for the President and Vice-President of the Constitutional Court should be a privilege of the government. Why is this not Parliamentary matter? It is precisely about how the division of this order process and all that can be reconciled, that we should also discuss. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] You see that I do not have the time, I would have had many points that I would have liked to make in this context. You have not allowed a discussion, and that is obvious. Your concept of democracy!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e9775	The next speaker, since no requests were made, is Mrs Dr Cordula Frieser. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e9796	I will not let you down, Mr Wabl. Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I will briefly comment on the amendment to the Federal President's election order and also on the amendment of the People's Desire Act. However, before I go into the Federal Presidential Election Order, I would like to get out of an article by Erwin Zankl of the 13th century. It is precisely because the situation we had at the time seemed to me particularly painful and particularly worrying in terms of democracy policy. Erwin Zankl wrote at the time – I quote –: All citizens are equal before the law, it is stated in the Constitution. However, when it comes to the highest office in the state, there are the same citizens. The normal mortals have to take on shocks if they want to support a candidate for the election of the Federal President. They must appear personally before the municipal authority in order to certify their signature and to confirm their entry in the electorate. They can only support one candidate, and their signature counts only once. The Members of the National Council are the same. Five signatures are sufficient for one candidate, while one candidate must collect 6,000 signatures without national Council protection. Not enough with it. The Members of Parliament can, at any rate, sign and give their fellow artists 25 000 support each, which is important for the voting process. And so on. - Quote. With today's novel, we will abolish this relic of class right. It's a curative right, a class right. [[Abg. Wabl: The class of deputies?]] – Yes, the class of MEPs, which is awarded a particularly high value, namely that of 25 000 votes. [[Abg. Wabl: The class is determined only by birth and by capital!]] [[Abg. Oils: What are we sitting for?- Oh, my God!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to remind you once again of the 1998 Federal President's election. [[Calls and calls between the ÖVP, the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] It was an outrage that two classes of citizens were created in the declarations of support for the Federal President, as I have said, and that a member's vote to the National Council was as much as 25,000 votes of normal citizens. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen: Is the voice of Mrs Schmidt really worth 25 000 times more than the voice of a normal citizen? [[Abg. Dr Schmidt: You don't know the right to vote, Mrs. Colleague! Read the right to vote, then you know what it means!]] Is it really worth 25 000 times more than the voice of Mr. or Mrs. Austrian? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Is it really worth 25 000 times more than we say – because I see my clubman in the first row – a rightful, upright Tyrolean shooter? - I can't understand. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I'm not a shooter!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The right to vote was abolished on and for itself in 1907, but for the woman Schmidt we do not abolish the right to vote until today. [[Lively calls of Deputies Smolle and Mag. Barmüller.]] [[Abg. Wabl: No ordinary citizen can stand down there at the speaker's desk! He's being thrown out of the folders!]] That is why it was an urgent, important concern to me that this should finally be decided. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am particularly concerned, Mrs Schmidt, that you have such a feudal and democratic privilege. I think it is a special provocation that the same Members not only supported their competitors but also themselves, so that their voice was de facto worth 50 000 ordinary citizens' votes. That is why I really can't understand why you, Mrs. Schmidt, cannot agree to this law. Even if you explain that it is not your highest personal concern to keep this up, it will not believe you in spite of everything. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In connection with the amendment to the Federal Presidential Election Regulations, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! I also think it is very important to note that the popular desire of the vote is at last absent from the privilege of the Members' vote. This privilege was repeatedly abused by Dr. Haider for party desires. As the name says, it is a popular desire and not a party desire. By the way, the fact that these party desires were only moderately successful is only a weak comfort given the cost of the public hand. Ladies and gentlemen! As we know, the Members have the possibility of using the own-initiative proposals and other business-regulatory instruments that they are to benefit from instead of using "people's desires" under quotation marks. However, it is somehow obvious that both Dr Schmidt and Dr. Haider, each in their own way, are actually misused by democratic policy instruments with their parliamentary privileges. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That is absolutely weak! How the ÖVP made the conference center popular desire, what was that?! But this is the hypocrisy of the ÖVP! I'll come back to that anyway.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: 1.4 million signatures! The greatest popular desire ever!]] Mr Graf! I have already told you that it has really been a satisfaction that the popular desires you have initiated have been so little successful. I am not surprised that you do not at all generate the costs you have incurred. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Kalauer! You can tell the holler you're getting there.]] The fact that this democratic package, which we are deciding today, is, of course, only a mosaic in the overall debate on democracy, has already been mentioned by Mr Hlavac. We will, of course, continue to discuss other democratic institutions in the future. In particular, we will have to consider why voting participation is further reduced. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Because there are delegates like you! I wouldn't choose them either!]] We will have to discuss the electoral order in general, we will debate the electoral age, we will talk about self-control in the voting and legislative machinery and, of course, we will also need to discuss the profile of the political representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e10021	The motion by Mrs Dr Kostelka, Dr. Khol, presented here by Mrs Frieser, is sufficiently supported. He refers to the novel to the Federal Presidential Election Act and is negotiating. Next speaker is Mrs Haidlmayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e10046	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The electoral rules and the amendments that have been tabled for this purpose show at least one approach to the fact that you also regard people with disabilities as voters. In determining what should, if possible and in accordance with the building conditions in each municipality, be at least as accessible as a place of election, you have at least lost a thought from the coalition parties – I would like to expressly mention – of such voters who are disabled of mobility. Ladies and gentlemen! But it is simply too little if there is to be only one locality in a municipality or district, which is accessible – and only according to the possibilities. You really forgot that we were 9. In July 1997, a Constitutional Provision for the Equality of Disabled People was adopted. – Given this constitutional provision, it should be possible to establish that all registration sites must be accessible free of barriers! Appropriate, appropriate guidance systems for blind and visually impaired people must also be available. Of course you can say: A constituency per parish is better than nothing; I'll give you the right. But a constituency per community is clearly too little if you consider how many constituencies there are in a community or in a city. They cannot demand that someone who is disabled of mobility travel four or five kilometers through the half-city – on a Sunday on which there are hardly any buses – in order to be able to see the possibility of voting there. That is clearly too little! I have therefore also prepared three amendments, with the requirement that all the constituencies should be accessible free of barriers. These amendments relate to the National Council electoral order, to the European electoral order and to the People's Desire Act. Ladies and gentlemen! In the People's Desire Act, you no longer seem to think it is necessary for disabled people to be able to sign. Mrs. Rauch-Kallat! I ask you: Why not? [[Abg. Smoking Callat: Why didn't you set an initiative at all? It's very late! I would have expected the Greens to become much more active!]] I do not know whether you know that in the Constitutional Committee there is still a draft law on the equal treatment of disabled persons – you know it as a member of the working group – which, of course, can only be decided in the Constitutional Committee. Mrs. Rauch-Kallat! They were the ones who were gratefully committed to the constitutional provision, but our demand for an equal treatment law is still in the Constitutional Committee and is not being dealt with. That is why my question, Mrs Rauch-Kallat: Why is this not true of popular desire? Why should disabled people not have the opportunity to sign in a barrier-free location with a popular desire? I have therefore prepared another amendment. This refers to the People's Desire Act and includes the fact that all places of registration are accessible to people's desires and must have guidance systems for the blind and the hard to see. [[Abg. Smoking Callat: If you had made applications!]] Mrs. Rauch-Kallat! I would like the Constitutional Committee to consult soon on the preparation of stencils in national elections. It would be good to start the negotiations already now to consider how such stencils can look so that they do not have to be restolened at every election. There are certainly already certain control systems for this. You should also consider the time horizon. I think it should be possible that, by 2003, if the next national elections are likely to take place, there will be appropriate stencils which will allow disabled and blind fellow citizens to vote. I would like to make a positive point. It has long been my heart to me that it is at last no longer the task of the doctor to judge whether anyone can or cannot choose, but that the decision whether or not a person is eligible for choice due to his physical situation will be left to the individual, and that no longer is determined by the doctor, that one must choose and not the one. I consider this to be a great progress, because this doctor's decision was a massive demise, especially for people in old homes and hospitals. I would like to see this good approach to the accessibility of the constituencies, rather than the rapid development of this approach, namely that, as already mentioned, all constituencies must be accessible, both for national elections and for federal elections, for European elections and, of course, for popular desires. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e10101	Ladies and gentlemen, did you not want to make a request?
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e10116	Thank you, Mr President. I tabled the following three amendments: [[Quoted print version removed]] Another amendment refers to the European electoral system and reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] The third application relates to the National Council's electoral system and reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would ask you to support these amendments, because it is only in this way that the approach that has now been adopted can be further developed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e10240	The applications just read are properly supported and are under negotiation. Mr Wabl! I would suggest that the text of the law be aligned with the explanations, for in the explanations of "electors" is spoken of, but in the text of the law only of the "electors". This is certainly not within the meaning of the applicants. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: But in the sense of society!]] The next speaker is Mrs Irmtraut Karlsson. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e10270	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! I can follow Mrs Haidlmayr's remarks seamlessly, but see the question a little further. In my opinion, any measure we take in the sense of easier access to disabled people is a measure that is actually available to everyone. For there are a number of people who are not considered to be disabled, but who, for example, are temporarily not as mobile as an accident, don't see as well or don't hear as well as healthy people. I therefore believe that it is very necessary to develop more sensitivity and to look at all the constituencies from this point of view. For example, I was on the second floor of the last Federal President's election, without a lift. It was officially the first floor, but the Vienna buildings are just equipped with half-stock, mezzanine and all possible. That was unreasonable, for a far greater number of voters than the group of the disabled! That is why I am in favour – and we will decide on this today – of looking at these things more closely and of installing control systems. Guide systems are not only useful for the visually impaired, but also serve those people who are understandably confused when they enter the building and are to orient themselves on some orange strips, on which is then somewhere small handwritten on it! Often you have to ask three times for the way. Therefore, a management system is very important for a much larger number of people. As far as the stencils for the National Council election are concerned, I believe that this is not the final conclusion of wisdom. That is why we did not want to be content with saying: That's too complicated! and: This is not going to happen, but rather to take the resolution seriously to think about it again. I asked myself, something will happen. The electorate is also a bit complicated for non-inhibitors – to express it now. In this respect too, we should generally consider how this can be solved in a different way, and then, in this context, put appropriate measures for the severely impaired and the blind. The second point in this package of laws I would like to address, because otherwise it goes down, is the following: Finally, the female functional designations are laid down in the law. The Federal President can also be a Federal President – if there is a candidate. We've already had candidates. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: There are also heads of state!]] This amends a system that is long due and obsolete by reality, making a legal repair. Third point: The package contains a number of reliefs with regard to the right to vote of the Austrians abroad. In the future, it will be easier to make the declaration of support for candidates in foreign elections. Instead of two witnesses, a witness is enough. In the context of the EU's electoral system, EU citizens are also considered witnesses. So there are a number of reliefs for the Auslandsösterreicher, and these register this too. However, they also register other things, and I must say that a large group of foreign Austrians are concerned about some of the comments to be made by Dr. Haider on 9 May. ==References====External links== These are his statements on equality between the victims of the Holocaust and the displaced. I really want to hold this very closely. ==References== This equality took place in September. Then in the "ZiB 2" – and there were no left-wing journalists who had written anything there, but it was the original tone – were asked: They like the Sudeten Germans and the injustice that happened to the Jews?, said Dr. Haider: Of course. After that, there was justified – thank God! – massive outrage about this equality. ==References== September – and this is the tactics of Dr. Haider – he has thrown the fogging machine back and found in the "press hour": No, no, he didn't mean that he just meant that the victims were all the same, and he didn't want to add up – to do exactly that, namely, to calculate! In fact, he quoted the "Black Book of Communism", which says – again O-Ton Haider –: Stalinism was worse than Hitler's Holocaust. The "Black Book of Communism" is a clear billing book. Mr. Dr. Haider expects no one to know it and everyone says: Okay, that's it. And again on a demand he noted: Yes, victims are the same, aren't they? Whether I've been mistreated in a concentration camp or I've been driven away by home – that's original from the "press hour" – has been beaten by the Czechs, who doesn't care about the victims, but the question... - Journalist call: Well, "has been mistreated in a concentration camp," 6 million people have been killed! – Mr Haider: Well, it's not about the number, I beg you! These relativizations, this eternal blitzing to the right, this constant impoverished one – I would like to strongly reject that here in this House from this speaker's mouth!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e10309	The next speaker was Mr Graf. – 6 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e10330	Mr President. Dear Mr. "Democracy State Secretary"! Ladies and gentlemen! This democratic package – as I really have to thank Mrs Schmidt – is really not such a package, and we have kept that in all our opinions. This expression suggests that more rights are granted to the people, but that is not actually happening. Granted – and therefore we will carry a lot of things along – a few privileges of mandates and politicians will be removed. Of course, we think too few. But otherwise no rights of the population will be dealt with on this point. There is no regulation – but the debate on it will certainly be held, we will keep it in motion in a subcommittee or also in the Constitutional Committee – which requires a referendum to be held in the context of a highly successful popular desire. There is no discussion about the reduction of the electoral age; a discussion which will certainly be necessary and which we will have to conduct, because it simply does not concern that a large part of our population, which is quite politically very interested, will be kept away from elections. The position of Minister Bartenstein as a youth minister will certainly have to be rethinked, which has already been thrown into the debate in the medium term, that we want to reduce the electoral age at the municipal level, but only after registration in the electorate evidence. We really must be careful not to do that! Our forefathers did not fight for us to have a secret, equal and universal right to vote when circumstances arise that require a certain group of people, perhaps those between 16 and 18 years of age, to enter a electoral evidence in order to obtain the right to vote. It is only the through-organized youth organizations that are at home in the party apparatus of red and black. And that's exactly what should be prevented! As an opposition, we will have to do all we can to counter these proposals. There is also no real discussion on the extension of the public prosecutor's competences. What actually happened: The right to vote for Austrians has been facilitated. Of course, Mr Karlsson is particularly pleased because she is a beneficiary of this electoral change, since in the constituency of Vienna, in the constituency of Vienna, where you have obtained a fundamental mandate that has been added to it by Auslandsösterreicher. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Karlsson.]] That's exactly what I'm talking about, Mrs. Karlsson. It would be much more honest if the SPÖ in this constituency were to run with a foreign-Austrian candidate, because I do not think that the majority of the Austrians from abroad have elected you. They may have chosen the SPÖ, but you as a candidate are not sure. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They would much rather have a foreign Austrian here in this house and not the colleague Karlsson – I would trust to bet. But it is not for me to criticize that; You have been elected, and you are a colleague, and that is quite right, and I am also pleased that we are able to conduct the political debate. But one thing I would like to say to you on the basis of your previous opinions: They measure by two measures when it comes to looking at victims or condemning other abuses that have not yet been eliminated. They measure with two measurements! [[Abg. Dr. Karlsson: Dr. Haider measures with two measures!]] A leading representative of the Liberal Forum published a letter yesterday in the "Standard" stating that the displaced Sudeten Germans would have to pay back a little more, because in reality they are doing much, much better than the Czechs who remained in the Czech Republic! They had only had the luck of getting into the enjoyment of the "golden West" by their expulsion! – This is cynical, and I would expect you to sue this. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is pure cynicism, because it is forgotten that 241,000 dead have remained on the way from Prague and Brno to Vienna! [[Abg. Koppler: That's right, but how did it start?]] That the position of the Liberal Forum on this point is very, very incontrovertible, we have often noticed in this House. But if you are now also beginning to think in this category, Mrs. Karlsson, I would like to advise you: As a so-called mandater for foreign Austrians, it would be good for you to acknowledge once again that these people must also finally be granted human rights – as do all the others. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Karlsson: The fact that the Holocaust is being destroyed does that by Dr. Haider! He's destroying the Holocaust! We have different views!]] From the speaker's point of view, you have not spoken against this letter from the top representative of the Liberal Forum, but you have tried again to bring something here into this House with false quotations and misconceptions, which is not at all happening in Austria. That's what I'm telling you here and today. [[New condolences with the liberals.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Oellinger: Please, what is a "false submission"?]] If Mr Hlavac – and I would also like to say that – has been said here today that a debate on the Rules of Procedure should be held in the context of a democratic reform, then this is almost a dangerous threat, because we only have the last debates on the Rules of Procedure and also decisions behind us. These were all at the expense of the opposition, namely the real and only opposition. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens.]] [[Abg. Wabl: The Only, True, Blue Opposition!]] Today, colleague Frieser also asked: Why do you really change the popular desire law? The only change is that one wants to prevent the FPÖ from taking advantage of this privilege. Mr Frieser named it that way. It has said that the FPÖ has forgotten that the ÖVP has repeatedly used the same rights over years. If the ÖVP, the Liberal Forum or the Greens use it, then it is good and then it is democratic. But if the FPÖ uses a legal right, then of course it is necessary to change the constitution, that is quite clear! This is a very short-sighted attitude; I say that to you, ladies and gentlemen. This attitude is indeed democratic, and you will recognize it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And with regard to the financial argument: We as the Freedom Party and also the Citizens' Initiatives live on the fact that people's desires are constantly being said to cost money, too much money, and to the taxpayer a little. But today, the coalition decides that there is still money for the successful contest of a popular desire, so you make it even more expensive. That's incomprehensible to me. And this at a time like today, without having to present evidence of the actual cost. It is true, as Mrs Schmidt said, that there is no democratic package to negotiate here. However, it would have been pointless to refer these few marginal points to a subcommittee. We will discuss the other questions there. In particular, we will be very much in this discussion against your proposal to introduce the right of majority voting. That's what it's like. It is a permanent force in the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e10470	Mrs Dr Schmidt has referred to an actual correction. I would draw attention to the speaking time of 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e10494	High house! [[Abg. Haigermoser: Max Stadler in Bavaria...!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] – You obviously did not see the results of your friend, Mr Brunner, have reached! [[Abg. Haigermoser: At the sister party in Bavaria, the election result does not matter!]] Mr Graf has claimed that it is my proposal to introduce the right of majority voting. – This is incorrect. He knows, too, because I have already done so in committee. So he said it against better knowledge. I have repeatedly expressed myself publicly in committee and on every occasion in favour of the right of majority voting.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e10552	The next speaker is Mrs Rauch-Kallat. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e10573	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! "Austria is a democratic republic. Their right comes from the people." In addition to this programmatic declaration of the democratic principle in Article 1, Austrian Constitutional Law contains, in particular, standards governing the appointment of the legislative bodies and of the Federal President as the supreme executive body. [[Calls and counter-calls between honourable Members Mag. Stadler, Dr. Haider and Wabl.]] – Perhaps the gentlemen could end their discussion!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e10594	Please, Mr Wabl, Mr Stadler, if a lady is speaking, we will all listen to her now.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e10610	On this basis of the general, same, personal and secret voting rights, electoral orders form the administrative and practical procedures of elections. As in the dissertation reviewed by Univ.-Prof. Manfred Nowak and Professor Dr. Karl Korinek "Human rights of disabled people – The position of disabled people in Austrian constitutional law, taking particular account of fundamental rights" by Dr. Philipp Wahl, has not been sufficiently taken into account in the current electoral law of disabled people. It literally means: The principles of Austrian electoral rights laid down in the Constitution are by no means contradictory, which is particularly evident in the example of disabled people. Thus, the principle of universal suffrage contrasts with the principles of personal and secret suffrage when a physically handicapped person is physically unable to vote without the assistance of third parties. And then we're going to go on: In the implementation of the democratic principle of the Federal Constitution, the legislator must therefore weigh, assess and harmonise the individual collyding principles of electoral law against each other. - Quote. In July last year, the National Council specified its understanding of the principle of equality in Article 7 of the Federal Constitution with regard to disabled people: No one is allowed to be disadvantaged because of his disability. The Republic, the Federal Government, the Länder and the Communities are committed to ensuring equal treatment for people with disabilities and no disabilities in all areas of daily life. Thus, according to Dr. Philipp's election before the entry into force of this clarification requires action, he is now all the bigger. Against this background, the Federal Chancellor has set up a working group whose task is to review the rules of law on discriminatory rules. In addition to the Ministries, this working group also includes interested experts, especially from the self-determined initiative, as well as the disabled speakers of the parties of the parliamentary clubs. The Protocol of the 5th. The meeting of the Legal Protection Subgroup confirms the criticism of Dr. Wahls regarding the right to vote. And actually, Mrs. Haidlmayr is not here now, I would have expected Mrs. Haidlmayr, who is a member of the Group on Self-Determined Living, to take the democratic package into account in bringing in the corresponding amendments in the form of requests. Since this has not been done, after a reasonable waiting period for Mrs Haidlmayr's requests, we have taken the democratic package into account by the ÖVP to give rise to corrective intervention. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] These are three points: the freedom of choice of institutions, the assistance of blind and visually impaired people and the accessibility of the constituencies. The fact that the People's Desire Law should not be amended in this context, please, was not intentional, but a disregard. I could well imagine that, on the part of our group, we shall form or join a joint request if we are invited to do so, or if we agree to it. [[Abg. Wabl: That sounds beautiful! That almost sounds like democracy!]] Of course, it is also a matter of popular desire that the local accessibility be accessible. Let me briefly address these three points. According to the legal situation in force, there is currently the possibility that a doctor may prohibit the exercise of the right to vote in institutions for serious medical reasons. This pass is now removed without replacement, and by the replacement of § 72 para. 4 National Councils-Electoral Regulations and Section 58 para. 4 European Election Order will be the right to vote with Articles 23a para. 4 and 26 para. 5 of the Federal Constitution, according to which the withdrawal of the right to vote may take place only on the basis of a judicial decision. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] The second point: Until recently, visually handicapped and blind people have only been able to exercise their right of vote with the help of a trusted person, i.e. in principle not a secret. For a few years now, thanks to technical aids, stencils have been used to secure the secret right of election for the blind and the visually impaired. There was no legal anchoring of this assistance so far. Now, for the Federal Presidential elections and for the elections to the European Parliament, the provision of electoral stencils for blind and visually impaired people is mandatory. With regard to national elections, the Federal Minister for the Interior is asked by a resolution to present a proposal on appropriate aids for the independent exercise of the right to vote for these groups. This takes into account the right of blind and visually impaired people to a secret choice. However, it is much more difficult at the National Council elections, because there are 43 constituencies, and as simple as Mrs Haidlmayr suggests that you can use the same stencils for several elections, it is certainly not blue-eyed. It is also to be thanked to the Socialist Group that it has announced that it will try to ensure that there is, as far as possible, a solution for national elections, which will be technically feasible in the near future.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e10648	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Excuse me, it's 15 o'clock now. I have to interrupt.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e10664	Can I say another sentence? Then I'll end up with my speech. Thirdly, this request lays down the principle of accessibility of constituencies as well as the need for the establishment of constituencies with blind control systems. Thus, the discussions of the working group were able to achieve first concrete results within the framework of the democratic package, which we consider to be the equal treatment of disabled people. 7 bring a piece closer, but it's just a first step, and I think there's still a lot to do.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e10700	I am now interrupting the negotiations on points 2 to 5 of the agenda and calling for urgent question 4886/J. Request for urgent procedure by Dr Heide Schmidt, Mag. Helmut Peter, Dr. Volker Kier and comrades to the Federal Minister for Finance on overdue trend change in the tax rate (4886/J)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e10727	In the meantime, the question has been raised by all Members. A reading by the writer is therefore lacking. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e10894	I give the floor to Mrs Dr Schmidt as the first questioner. I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time is up to 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e10915	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! The Liberals have tabled an urgent request concerning the overdue trend change in the tax rate, and it may be that one or the other thinks that this is not so urgent because an archival lie. It is urgent for us, because we know that without a reform of expenditure, without a reduction of the State, no tax reform is possible, which reduces taxes. This tax reform is a point which we have been promised, but where we feel that it is already beginning at another time. And because now Mr. Van der Bellen has just come into the hall: I was very irritated by his performance, as it was surprising to me in this context. After all, he said, "better later", and I give him the second part of the sentence "and for it proper", "as right now". I therefore have a little unpleasantly touched me because, if this move-out will by the government still gets support from an opposition party, there is a risk that the Minister of Finance, perhaps also his State Secretary, would like to comfort us over a period of time, perhaps with the argument that no tax reform can be made before elections. We thought that was a profound mistake. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] In addition: The logic that, if the tax reform takes place later, it is also better, unfortunately, we have, through our experience here in the House, clearly rejected. That is why this is not a compelling conclusion for me. You have been able to read in this urgent request, if you have already done so, what it is about us in the core. In Austria, with 45.7 percent of the gross domestic product, we have not only one of the highest tax and tax rates in the European Union, but also the highest in history for Austria. And if one reads that the European Monetary Institute in its Convergence Report notes that this tax rate has already reached a level that is detrimental to economic growth, this is an alarm signal. I do not want to be assumed, especially as liberals, that economic growth is, so to speak, a concern for us as a self-evident. That's not it. This is not a self-interest, and I would like to mention in this context those three objectives which are equally important to us, and where one must never go at the expense of the other, and where I would not allow a catalogue of priorities in the form of one after another, but the efforts must be made at the same time. These three objectives are to ensure the competitiveness of a country, including economic growth, social cohesion of a society and the safeguarding of citizens' rights. These three objectives – and that is, and I am proud to be the sole feature of the Liberals – can only be achieved if, for example, we reach a trend change in the tax rate, and because we are so far away from this achievement, we have made this urgent request to finally make it a topic in this House. However, this trend change can only be brought about if at last the concept of expenditure reform, i.e. expenditure savings, is taken seriously and not only remains a lip commitment, and this cost saving is only possible if one sees the recovery of the state not only as a headline, but rather deals with it in terms of content and actually operates it. For the Liberals, this has several effects. On the one hand, this is a budget-effective consideration and a budget-effective procedure, but this reconstruction of the state also frees from the state's premise, because nothing else is this clumsy, and it allows me to do so, and that is essential to me, a tax reform – which I will come back to later – which can also bring with it a real tangible reduction. [[Accompaniment at the Liberal Forum]] This reduction is not a populist thing for us. Although: Who does not like to promise that taxes will be reduced? I know that's something that everyone likes to tell. But please don't give us this ease! I think it would not be serious and not justified. If you have observed our previous policy, you know very well that populist concerns have never been ours, but that it has always been for us to underline justice. It may be that you do not share our opinion, but the proper motivation, I believe, cannot really dispute us. In this case, the reduction of taxes has a very important role to play, because the reduction of taxes has further consequences. The reduction of taxes means a stronger purchasing power. What has happened so far in this country has been a weakening of purchasing power by the cold progression, to an extent that I will then count, which is unbearable, and this increase in purchasing power is, of course, an incentive for the economy. If I see all of this in this sequence, I know that it is appropriate to serve these three objectives, which I have mentioned earlier, and is suitable to bring us closer to these objectives. This reduction in the tax rate is a key element for us in the reform of the tariffs. I would just like to recall something now, because I could already imagine that many have forgotten it. The long-distance goal of the Liberals for a tax reform is a uniform tax rate – I only recall that! – in the context of basic security and in connection with an exemption. We presented this model in autumn last year, only we know that this is a long-distance target, which is now not reachable in the short term. That is why we have discussed the current system and made proposals for reform of the current system, where we can gradually meet our far-reaching goal. This gradual reform requires such a reduction in tariffs because, as has been said, the cold progression de facto has brought about an increase in these tariffs. I am not concerned that this should perhaps be non-profit-neutral – in order to avoid misunderstandings. Of course, the reform should also bring about a reduction in the revenue of the state, because this is necessary to force the state to move forward its recovery. It is necessary to force him to save on expenditure, and then, I admit, we will have to pay close attention to what expenditure he saves. The previous savings were, of course, not expenditure-sides, but the Minister of Finance has recovered the money. On the expenditure side, one must be careful not to get the money from the weakest state. This danger exists, of course, but finally there is also a Parliament to prevent it. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] In this context, I refer to an examination by the Institute of Economic Research in relation to the transfer volume, and I am saying this because it concerns the reconstruction of the state and because expenditure on the personnel costs of the federal government is constantly increasing – despite your announcement, Mr State Secretary. At present, 230 billion schillings are being spent on personnel costs alone – as we all know, a third of the federal expenditure – and they have continued to rise in 1997. I already know that this is not in your interest, just: That's reality. The reform is not only part of the right to serve, of course, but also of the need to eliminate this division in our society at last, the division which is that one must work in the protected area and the other must fight for its work. We therefore raised the issue of Pragmatization again yesterday. I think that it is unacceptable what the EIA is doing in this context. I am the last person who wants to defend the State Secretary, but it is of course right that one cannot stop in front of top positions. What's the ÖVP doing, what's your civil servants' union doing? – They are the actual brakers by saying that they must not be reformed, which, of course, has led to a standstill in the negotiations. There is an evil, and of course there must be no taboo here! There is no slightest reason not to make persons in top management positions as contractual servants. There are areas in which there should be special protection of termination, but the Pragmatization is a relic of the past, which is abolished, which is anti-performance, which in the budget is becoming an unpleasant book and which deepens the separation in this society. - That's one. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] But that's just part of it. According to a study carried out by the Institute of Economic Research, the transfer volume between the local authorities is already 300 billion schilling. That means that this is also a reorganisation of the financial flows. In fact, parallel structures are maintained, which are cost-intensive and personal, for example for social security institutions and financial management authorities. There is no reason at all – except for the tradition or any historical reasons. The contract system has also shown, in turn, what extensive data alignment is necessary. We propose – and this is only part of it, and I only mention it for example because you have it in writing – that, for example, the number of individual audits – the wage tax audit, the VAT audit, the social security check and so on – should be carried out in a single audit of taxes and taxes in the undertakings. This would not only be a relief for those concerned in the companies, it would also be a relief for the administration. Maybe that hurts them because they lose their own purpose, but we do not want to hope for that. In any case, it would mean an increase in the efficiency of the administration, it would be economically beneficial, and we only need to remember new structures once and in this way reorientate the overall state responsibilities. That's what it's all about! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I don't know the clock. Mr President, is it true that I have two minutes left?
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e11023	Much more: You've got over 9 minutes left.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e11039	The clock doesn't work!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e11057	Excuse me, Madam honourable Member, can I take a look? Doesn't the clock work again? – I apologize, but that is not in my mind. We'll have that repaired. Please, if you continue! You have a speaking time of 9 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e11075	I do not intend to take advantage of the 9 minutes because I believe that we have already recorded the essentials in writing. However, as an important key issue, I would like to focus on what we are talking about: On the one hand, we are concerned with the political definition of the state's core competences. And I don't say it for the first time, but I like to say it again and again: It is for me to answer three basic questions that a parliamentarian and a parliamentarian should somehow be internalized, because then we do not need such strange associations as "the battle of the flood of law" against which is constantly being violated and which are therefore not to be taken seriously. The first question is whether the state is allowed to regulate something at all. – There will certainly be different answers, but at least you should ask yourself the question. If one comes to the conclusion, the state may settle something, then one should ask the question: Yes, but does he have to deal with this at all?, and then we will have much less left, which we actually have to go through a legislative procedure. And if one comes to the conclusion, it must be regulated, then the maximum free space of the individual and the maximum scope for individual responsibility should be safeguarded. If we made this procedure, we would become a completely different set of laws, a completely different regulatory density, not only in terms of the laws themselves, but also in terms of the detail of the respective laws. And then we need not only to focus on the media, that we have too many laws, but then we will also come to another procedure in this House. In addition, the budget would be enormous, and it would be particularly reflected in the mentality of the citizens who would once again learn to deal with their own responsibilities and not call them to the institutions or to the state on every occasion. That would do us all good because it would strengthen democracy. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] That's the one point. The other point is that the use of resources must be in a reasonable relationship with the performance of the tasks of the State. It is therefore a matter of taking into account the costs of carrying out the tasks of the State. Let's be honest: This "Larifari" in all government documents, where the cover proposals or even the financial implications are "costs: none", is not to be taken seriously. We all know that this "no" is a formalism, that, of course, laws are also financially binding, whether this is happening in the administrative field or, above all, with those concerned – and usually, it is the economy, where it then becomes a book. Of course, the economy feels this, and of course the thumb screws are, and of course, regulations have their financial effects and effects. And when I talk about this cost and expenditure structure, which needs to be reduced from the outset: It is about the high burden on the labour factor – and that is no longer a sole feature of the Liberals when we represent this burden as unbearable. In the meantime, it is all agreed that the burden on labour has become even more unbearable, and that there must therefore be a change in this regard. We are going to discuss concreteisation, because we have proposals to do so. However, I would like to take out a second area of concreteization, and that is the reduction in tariffs. We have made the proposal that the tariffs should be lowered, and that is to say, that they should be reduced. It is 10 percent each, with a tax-free base of 15 000 s, all other tariffs would be reduced by 10 percent. This means a fifth reduction in the peak tax rate, which means 42 per cent a quarter, 32 per cent that means one third and half of the reduction from 22 to 10 per cent. What I mean by that is that although 10 per cent is the same everywhere, of course there is a proportionality in this proposal, and precisely this proportionality is a matter for us like fiscal justice. I admit that we have also attacked a "holy cow" in Austria, that we have allowed ourselves to discuss a taboo. As a serious party, we say: We want a tax reduction, we want people to stay in the bag more, and we want it too, so that more flows into the economy. It's supposed to be the decision of the individual what he's doing with the money, but it's supposed to stay with him more. But social justice is just as important to us, and I am therefore concerned about how all this should be financed, and I think it is necessary to think about how our proposal should be financed. That is why I come to another distribution of the tax burden relating to the 13th and 14ths. Yes, it's true! And all of you, as you are sitting here, benefit you a lot more than those decent, diligent, brave citizens who pretend to represent you – although: we are also; I have now chosen a division that I hope you won't take so seriously that is a relevant one. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: But we don't want to profit anymore! The diligent, decent one should benefit more!]] So those we all want to protect are paying for it, and I would like to make that clear. And that's why I don't understand, in particular, a social democrat who introduces himself with broad shoulders – if he has them – and says: No, 13, 14. Content is not being attacked! Finance an entire tax reduction by creating a tax justice! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] That would mean that the 13th and 14ths. salary is considered as the year is: at twelve months. The year has twelve months, and therefore these twelve months are to be taxed equally – with a lower tax rate. And one thing you won't be able to put us in, even though you might try: That the evil liberals want to take away something from anyone. That is not it, but we want a tax reduction, and we are making a serious proposal on how it can be financed – and that is part of it. That we want the state to be saved and therefore, of course, less tax revenue, you can read that out of it. That's true, because he's not supposed to be able to throw the money around him the way he's doing it right now. Obviously, sparing only works with compulsion. This pressure is a very democratic, a very helpful and a very useful one. Citizens do not have to hold their heads and pockets to do so, but saving goes about the way that a tax reduction brings a boost to the economy, but at least more self-confidence and greater capacity for action for the individual. That's supposed to be the goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e11129	Mr State Secretary, you have taken over the answer to the question. I'm asking you to wait a second. Ladies and gentlemen! A final repair of this technical defect is not possible during the session. We can only correct something between now and now. [[Abg. Böhacker: Mr President! There's also a watch on the top left!]] – Yes, but even if the watch does not work, the red lamp will automatically light up two minutes before the end of the possible speaking time. Mr State Secretary! Sorry Please use this "technical interruption". - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e11159	Mr President. High house! Austria's budget and tax policy is undoubtedly facing considerable challenges. On the one hand, fiscal consolidation must continue to achieve a nearly balanced budget in the medium term, in line with the European Growth and Stability Pact, and on the other hand, a tax reform should be carried out which has a number of objectives to be implemented. As a priority, apart from the relief of wage and income taxpayers, I would like to mention the tax relief of the labour factor and the improvement of the competitiveness of the Austrian economy. These budgetary and fiscal requirements must be taken into account under the framework condition – and that is essential to me – that the high social standards for our people are preserved and that security and stability remain a trademark of Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We have therefore also drawn up the 1999 federal budget with caution, both the assumed increase in the economic growth of real 2.8 percent and the binding of a percentage of discretionary expenditure. As far as fiscal consolidation is concerned, Austria – as I mean – is on a good path. The general government deficit and debt ratio are declining. For example, the general government net deficit, as measured by gross domestic product, could be more than halved from over 5 per cent to 1.9 per cent between 1995 and 1997. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The general government debt ratio has fallen from almost 70 to under 65 percent of GDP. Structural measures have also contributed significantly to this good path of fiscal consolidation. In the administrative sector, according to national economic accounts, the Federal Government's personnel expenditure has been reduced in recent years from 5 percent in 1995 to about 4.5% in this year. New forms of more efficient public service tasks have been initiated and are being further expanded. Reforms in the ASVG and pension sectors ensure high-level benefits and will also have a positive budgetary impact in the longer term. Reforms and also fiscal consolidation are, of course, a permanent process. The success achieved in recent years is right. Now it is about continuing this path. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Without a doubt, much remains to be done. The federal budget deficit remains too high with 2.6% of the gross domestic product and has to be further reduced. This will also be successful if we continue the structural reforms and, I say this very clearly, will also remain in the field of tax reform. This is called stone and clear: The cold progression should be returned to taxpayers. We want to relieve the labour factor. We want to improve the competitiveness of the Austrian economy, but we must not make two mistakes: Firstly, this tax reform must not provide the basis for a new package of savings, and secondly, structural reforms must not endanger social security and stability in that country. This would not be a responsible policy for this country and its population. As far as the tax rate in Austria is concerned, I would like to say the following: According to OECD's latest statistics – that is the recent Revenue Statistics 1965 – 1997 – the Austrian tax rate is in the narrower sense, i.e., without social security contributions for 1996, with... – I represent both. –... 28.7 percent above the OECD average of 27.9 percent, but just below the average of all European OECD countries – and that is probably the comparison, which is 28.9% – and significantly below the EU average of 30.2 percent. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: Merge!]] [[Abg. Dr. Kier: Brav!]] Because of the higher social security contributions – and this is a consequence of our well-developed social system that we stand for – Austria, with its total tax rate of about 44 percent, is above the average of these country groups. That's right. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: If it were safe, it would be wonderful!]] It should also be taken into account that in some areas, for example in the area of family support, Austria is primarily using transfer-side instruments, which, compared to other countries using tax, i.e. indirect, subsidies, leads to a relatively higher tax and tax rate. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Yes, but you do it with the casting pot!]] In spite of this fact, that without these charges we are below them and have some other deviations, there is no doubt a very essential aspect of further reforms in public administration. This is undisputed. This administration is becoming increasingly important. Today, not only companies but also entire economies are competitive in the course of globalisation. Public administration is the backbone of a modern economy, for example in competition for settlements and employment. Austria is able to access highly qualified public servants. Nevertheless, the reform of the administration is a permanent process. It is necessary to examine the tasks of the State on a regular basis in order to provide the services more efficiently and customer-friendlyly. In my opinion, this can be set out in three main areas: Citizens' orientation, modernisation and expenditure reduction – these goals are balanced. With the aim of "citizen orientation", we are working, in particular, to facilitate access to offices and authorities for all citizens, whether through the modernisation of offices – from a model commissioner to a reform of the Water Office – whether by allowing new access to the authorities, for example via the Internet. The aim of modernisation is above all to offer employees a modern service right, which rewards the performance individually. In addition, modern human resources development and management instruments in the public sector are also being introduced. For example, in order to increase efficiency and efficiency, I have reached the third goal, we introduce global budgeting, controlling and benchmarking in relation to performance indicators. I'll go into it even more closely. The basic philosophy is to enable each service to have more budgetary flexibility combined with more earnings responsibility and to establish budgetary rules that support incentives for more efficient administrative action. We refer to this subject of reform experiences from other Western industrialized countries, as well as suggestions from the Economic and Social Council. We don't want any undifferentiated reconstruction of the state, no nightguard state. Our goal is a slender and at the same time powerful state, one that carries out tasks close to citizens, modern and effective. Now on your questions in detail: Question 1: It is true that the 1999 Federal Budget provides for a 2.6% decrease, while the 1996 to 2000 budget programme is expected to be 2.3 percent for 1999. Nor can it be overlooked that, from today's point of view, the 1999 deficit in the general state will be slightly less than that 2.3 percent. – Despite additional expenditure to increase the level of employment and the reduction of unemployment under the National Employment Programme, for which additional resources are provided despite general restrictions on public expenditure. In addition, I would like to draw attention to the recognition of the Constitutional Court of 17 November. In October 1997, it was noted that the existing tax consideration of children had to be amended, which, of course, also contributed to a corresponding increase in expenditure. Questions 2 and 8: The OECD's calculations refer to the entire public sector – federal government, countries, municipalities, social security institutions and chambers – not only to the federal government. It is true that in the past, according to calculations by the Economic Research Institute in Austria, the shortfall in the shortfall of the deficit was only 1.75% of the gross domestic product. In other words, in the Austrian budget, in the event of poor economic conditions, elasticity to gross domestic product of 0.5 percent is not as strong as in the other EU countries. However, it is undoubtedly necessary to further reduce the current budget deficit of 2.6 percent of the federal government – as I have already said – in order to have a sufficient upholstery for itself, at least, worsening economic developments. Question 3: I am unable to comment on this alleged accusation of the European Monetary Institute, since the 1998 Convergence Report of the EMI and, by the way, the Commission does not contain any such sentence, namely that the 45.7% tax rate could harm economic growth. In my opinion, it would also be inconceivable to draw attention to economic growth from an overall rate which, by the way, is too high in relation to other key figures. It would be amazing if the economists of the Monetary Institute were to argue in such a shortened way. Nevertheless, I believe that the tax rate in Austria will and should fall with the tax reform. Question 4: In recent years, a wide range of sustainable, cost-saving, structurally improving reforms has been decided. Examples of such fiscal consolidation reforms include the reform of public service, remuneration and pension law, qualitative improvements and consolidation of social benefits at a high level, review and restructuring of funding expenditure, improving the efficiency of the tax system, in particular the elimination of tax loopholes, administrative structural reform, restrictive budgeting of expenditure, but also strengthening cooperation with countries and communities. Questions 5 and 6: The breakdown of expenditure and revenue into one-off, not one-off or for the first time is subject to enormous allocation and demarcation issues. There are no economic criteria so far that such a distinction can be made with the last clarity. There are many expenditures and revenues that have a unique character. With regard to expenditure, all expenditures leading to access to the investment assets of the investor are unique. This includes investments, acquisition of land, rights and other intangible, non-reproducible investment values. The grants to undertakings which are expressly intended for investment and have to be used by the recipient are also usually unique. Similarly, the loans given are unique. Finally, financial investments such as acquisition of equity are also unique. The same is true, of course, on the revenue side. By the way, all deficit-increasing or deficit-reducing measures have the same effect on the debt criterion – permanently. Question 7: The added burden of the Family Tax Reform will be achieved without increasing the budget deficit, as far as they work for the first time in 2000. This is possible if we continue the restrictive handling of expenditure developments. On questions 9 and 10: – I answered the eighth question together with the second. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: What about the eighth?]] [[Call to the liberals: He already has it!]] [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Sorry!]] ==References====External links== A new, comprehensive administrative reform project called "Administration Innovation" was adopted on 1 December 1997. The project aimed at remodelling from the State to the State of service shall be carried out by the following objectives: Firstly, an annual increase in productivity from 2 to 3 percent; it is intended to ensure high quality of performance within the framework of scarce resources. Secondly, the gradual introduction of effective management through taxes, through objectives, performance contracts, through the development of product catalogues, the creation of transparency over costs and services, as well as the gradual decentralisation of resource responsibility third parties: the handling of efficient personnel management in order to carry out a professionally responsible leadership and to ensure the flexible and qualified use of employees. All these projects are accompanied and supported by the staff section of the Ministry of Finance. The wealth of projects – there are about 60 that are currently running – could be divided into those that increase the proximity of citizens, i.e. modernisation of offices or even new access to the authorities, in those that bring modernisation in the sense of employees – ranging from a training reform to a new, modern service law – and in those that bring more effectiveness in the sense of the taxpayer. The aim is to define performance indicators at least in the direction of experimentation, to operate with global budgets and at the same time to strengthen controlling. Questions 11 and 12: On behalf of the Ministry of Finance, a study was prepared by scientists dealing with the new forms of the State's performance of tasks. In this context, important areas of public service creation have been reviewed for target-adequate and proposals for new, innovative solutions have been drawn up. The Federal Ministry of Finance is carrying out a budget control on the basis of a Council decision in cooperation with the individual departments. This is to be recorded in the amendment to the Federal Budget Act which I have already referred to. As I have also mentioned, the testing of new rules in budgetary law is intended to make a significant contribution to achieving more efficient public tasks. These proposals are drawn up in the budget section of the Federal Ministry of Finance. Since efficient management is also an essential factor for the attractiveness of the Austrian economic location, the corresponding reforms should also benefit Austrian companies. On the question 13: As important as the administrative reforms are, it should be pointed out that, due to the high proportion of staff costs in administrative expenditure, significant cost reduction potentials can only be realized in the longer term. In view of the realities I have mentioned, it is already a very ambitious objective to gradually reduce the administrative burden in relation to gross domestic product over a longer period of time each year. This has been done in recent years. Question 14: It is in the nature of a progressive tax that such a benefit is more beneficial to server servants. In order to assess the distribution effects of a tax, not only should a single tax advantage be used, but a total comparison is required. For example, the current peak tax rate of a wage taxpayer, including the benefit of the 13th and 14ths, is: The salary is 43.5 percent, while the tax concept of the Liberal Forum provides for a peak tax rate of 40 percent. You would therefore also reduce the top rate of taxation by your reform. Question 15: The Austrian legislator is bound by the principle of equality of tax, i.e. equal income is to be taxed equally. The Constitutional Court has already found several times that this specific worker benefit is quite compatible with this principle. There are, of course, also specific advantages for the other types of income, i.e. for the free workers mentioned in the question, such as the investment allowance, which does not constitute a breach of the principle of equality of taxation. Question 16 – VAT, country of origin –: I have no question that we must change our country of origin in the longer term within the European Union. The EU directives can only be achieved on a proposal from the European Commission. The Commission has not yet submitted a proposal for a directive on this subject, so it is not possible for the Austrian Presidency to open negotiations on it in the Council. However, Austria is using its Presidency to do persuasive work at all levels of the Community in order to achieve a simplification of the current VAT transitional system. On question 17: The Federal Minister for Finance has commissioned the Tax Reform Commission to develop proposals for the relief of the labour factor and to show the positive and negative effects of such measures. The result of the Tax Reform Commission will be presented shortly, so that I ask you to understand that I will only be prepared to comment. However, according to the definition of the Federal Chamber of Commerce, contributions to the Family Allowance Fund – by the way, as well as the municipal levy or the housing support – are fixed to increase additional wage costs. On question 18: Of course, the next tax reform will use all possible administrative simplification. On the other hand, taxes cannot, of course, be assessed primarily according to the cost/benefit ratio, because the entire tax system must, of course, comply with distribution policy and social principles. Question 19 – Tax reform and financial compensation –: We are committed to implementing the tax reform during this legislative period. Of course, representatives of the federal states will also be involved in political negotiations. I am confident that, with good will, a successful conclusion is possible in this way. Questions 20 and 21 The Minister of Finance has already said several times that the next tax reform will help to relieve wage and income taxpayers by 10 billion schilling, more than cold progression from 1994 onwards. Together with the Family Tax Reform, this gives a total relief of 22 billion schilling. The Tax Reform Commission has the task of, among other things, making proposals to relieve work, to strengthen Austria's economic location, but also to make tax rights more ecological. The report of the Tax Reform Commission is not yet available. I do not want to prejudicate the reform until then, so I will not comment on concrete content of the tax reform until the final report is present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e11288	Thank you, Mr State Secretary. We are going into the debate. Under the Rules of Procedure, each club has an overall speaking time of 25 minutes. The individual speaking time is limited to 10 minutes. Mr Peter is the first to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e11315	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! It's true: We face considerable challenges. Only, Mr State Secretary, we obviously live in two different countries. I don't know from which country You just reported. It seems to be the country as the government sees it "from above". Allow me to introduce the perspective of the people "from below". Discuss tax reform You're under a pretext: "What's the cost" – the cost!" - We don't question that. If the cold progression takes away ten or 20 billion schilling from people beyond normal economic growth, then the distribution will be graciously redistributed. Mr State Secretary! In fact, tax reform cannot mean that you say quite clearly: We call into question the benefits of this State with its costs. You haven't even said that this state is too expensive. They talked about administrative reform. – Mr President, Mr Neisser is sitting at the Bureau. He was appointed Minister for Administrative Reform in the Federal Chancellor's Office in 1986, and he told us exactly the same thing now, 1998, Mr Ruttenstorfer State Secretary. How long do you think we're gonna believe that? What credibility do you have? [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] For 12 years the big coalition government has been talking about tax reform, and for 12 years it has been talking about how to reduce the administrative burden. The fact is that the Pragmatizations have increased since you were in office and dignity, and you have also employed 6 000 part-time workers, who now count you as a matter of fact and not under staffing. Where did you increase the efficiency of your state? That's the point! It is not about the reduction of performance, it is about more customer orientation in this state, the exact focus on the needs of citizens. Have you ever wondered if through a reengineering government, through a new public management, a completely new form of public service provision is possible? You have today taken the word third-party comparison into your mouth. Mr State Secretary! I congratulate you! The third comparison shows that in Austria, the Federal Government, countries, municipalities – teachers, all together – employ 21 to 22 percent of all employees in the public service. Austria is a functioning state, that is true! The schools work, the offices work, the district captains work, the police work, the judicial system – everything works; but, Mr State Secretary, at what cost? Why are the Germans doing this with only 16 public employees per 100 employees? Why does a study by Prof. Schneider from Linz, who between Upper Austria – in order to involve the federal states too – and Bavaria say that Upper Austria has a third more public servants than Bavaria in the third comparison? This is the third comparison you should make: not only between the blind ministry A and the blind ministry B, but also make a third comparison in the European Union! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Mr State Secretary! Of course, the economic development of this country, as well as employment in that country, depends very much on the level of the share of the added value of that country, which the State is drawing on, and on the fact that the share of value added in the private sector is only more efficient and productive in maintaining public services. Private consumption, which is now slowly starting again, was our major problem in 1994, 1995, 1996 and 1997. Only the strong export development that has ceased thanks to the accession to the European Union has provided us with the economic growth that we have today. They really have the courage to defend it as a success that we have reached 3 per cent in the event of export-based economic growth, and we do not know how the issue of stock exchanges, the East Asia crisis, the Russia crisis and also the Latin America crisis will affect in 1999. In times – this is a mature economy – it owes an optimal economic growth of 3 percent You're calling the state another 70 billion schillings a year; that's the 2.6 percent you've mentioned yourself. Thank God the communities and countries are a little better in the Internal Stability Pact, so that the debt ratio can be reduced to less than 2.3 percent in total; this is undoubtedly a success. But it's about: What to do You really do, if you do not make cost-effective savings, if you do not create new structures, if you do not do any real cleaning, as all other companies in Austria have already done, as even with all the social difficulties in the Bundesbahn, how it succeeds in a joint venture? - Why? – Because there is suddenly a pressure from the market. Similarly, postal and telegraph management must succeed because protected areas cannot be maintained in the long term. On the one hand On the other hand, there are people in the exposed sector who have to tremble around their jobs every day, who are fully affected by the wave of change in the working world, who have to re-qualify, who have to look at how they fill their professional life with a second or even third profession, on the other hand, there is obviously the caste of people who are still working in the protected area, defended by you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democratic Party! Where is social justice? Where is she? [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] You cannot say that you want a uniform right of service for workers and employees, because you will have to take in the public service throughout its width. Mr State Secretary, either you are able to introduce real reforms – or you are capitulating before the official union, as your predecessor, Dr Neisser, had to do. In between, there are twelve lost years in this republic, twelve years of a great coalition that has done nothing in this direction, except that it has told us – as you have today – very beautiful words. But I don't see what happens, I don't feel it, I can't measure it. However, I am not home to the government in the Olympus, but I live on Earth. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! It's quite exciting when you discuss the amount of tax and tax ratio around and think it would be 43.8 or 44 percent. You will have to add something and take into account the total burden on Austrians in our country, namely, what they have to deliver to the European Union, about 1.2 percent. They will also have to account for a further half of GDP needed to pay the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Labour. Of course, these are all positions to be included in the tax and tax rate. This has been done by the European Monetary Institute, making a third comparison of 45.7 percent. You don't even dispute it, Mr. State Secretary. That is the highest tax and tax rate that this Republic ever had, and that after twelve years of a socialist government together with the coalition partner Volks Party! This is not a question of taking away social benefits from the socially weak, Mr State Secretary. This is a question of reducing the overall transfer volume. What does it make sense if you give the middle class the same amount of transfer payments as it pays taxes? What makes sense? Reduce taxes and delete You've got these transfers! Concentrate Please get the transfers to those people they really need! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] You can put your family tax reform on the hat if Let a Helmut Peter, a Mr Hazelsteiner, a Mr Bartenstein or any other kind of family support! These gentlemen can take care of their children themselves. Would you rather lower the taxes and give them money in this way! Reduce the total transfer volume of the state and increase the reliability to help those who really need to be helped in society! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! For us Liberals, the following is very important: If you're not sure, you can't be free. We therefore believe that the social network is the greatest contribution to political culture. But this does not apply to the well-earned people in our country. They don't need the social network. It is totally pointless to take it away from them first over an overly high tax and tax rate and then run around with gifts and say: You become a child as a wealthy person and now receive 4,000 s a month – or whatever amount. What we Liberals understand is to make the state slimmer, of course, while maintaining social benefits with their absolute security of meeting where they are necessary, it is ultimately to guarantee stability and freedom. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The savings packages you tied up in 1995 and 1996 have either brought more stress to people or reduced social transfers where people really needed them. But you have never questioned yourself, Mr State Secretary and ladies and gentlemen of the Coalition Government. You never really questioned what the state is doing and asked: Does what we're doing have to be so expensive? Mrs. Dr. Schmidt has told you a clear, triple-divided sentence that I would like to repeat – especially in the direction of the Austrian People's Party, which repeatedly brings petitions, such as "Stop of the Law Flood", and at the same time creates a new flood of law in Austria. Mrs. Dr. Schmidt told you: If the State does, will the State have to do so and will promote the freedom of the individual? You kill your own initiative! This will be the problem of this country in the long term – not only today but also in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e11454	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Novotny. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e11475	Mr President. High house! The subject of tax reform, of course, is of an irresistible appeal to the media and politics. I can't always get away from this appeal myself, but for a responsible approach to this subject it seems important to me to hold something. Tax changes can never be self-interest, but they must always be seen as a means of economic policy. You, Mrs Schmidt, have mentioned a few of them here. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Social Policy!]] For us Social Democrats, the question of a powerful economy, the question of solid state finances, and, of course, the question of a fair distribution of opportunities in terms of income and life opportunities are the most important. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: That's it!]] Especially the issues of stability and solidity are particularly important for financial consideration at the moment. We all know that there is a world economic development which is characterized by considerable uncertainty. I think it would also be an illusion to believe that Europe and therefore Austria will not be affected at all. In this context, I would just like to say the following: It is thanks to the European Monetary Union that it has proved itself to be a stabilising factor, and we can only say: In Austria, let us be glad that we have not followed those who have not long called for us to postpone accession to monetary union. We would then be exposed to all possible speculations. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Liberal Forum.]] So much to help your short memory a little. For the Austrian economy, however, the main task is clearly to ensure the economic stability of our country. Some Members of the Committee on Finance have had a debate with the National Bank's Board of Directors some time ago, and all of us were actually of the opinion that economic stability is currently a priority. Of course, the budget plays a central role here. We have – and the Secretary of State has shown this – pursued a successful consolidation policy. However, I agree with Mrs Schmidt that this consolidation policy cannot be considered as being completed. We must continue to reduce the net deficit ratio, about 0.5 percent of GDP. This must be expressed in absolute terms: That's about 15 billion schilling around here. If we look at concrete tax proposals, it is the most important criterion for each proposal to define what it looks like from the point of view of soundness, continuity and seriosity in terms of financial policy. If I look at the proposals made by the Liberal Forum, I think it is interesting that it clearly shows a certain change in the policy orientation. I can recall times when you have been very vehement for models of basic security and basic income. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Still!]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Somewhere you need to know for yourself what you really want. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: You must distinguish between legal claim and...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Peter.]] It is honorable for liberals, if everyone has a different opinion, but it is not quite easy to understand what you really want. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What you want now – the last stand – is to reduce the tax rate for all by 10 percentage points. For this purpose, all the benefits of workers, namely, 13 and 14. monthly salary, overtime and so on. I emphasize: the employee. For what is ultimately going on in the hard core – and this is already clearly said – is that you finance a reduction in income tax, and thus a reduction in the tax for self-employed and self-employed workers by removing the benefits of workers. That's the hard core. There is obviously a political concept behind that too. You said you didn't want to do populism. - I agree with you. But obviously you are on the road towards a niche strategy. In Germany it is so that the FDP is often called the party of dentists and the clinic boards, that is, the top earner. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: University professors too!]] Obviously, you want to run an FDP strategy. I can only warn you. The German examples show that it is sometimes a politically somewhat risky strategy that is being pursued there. It is true, of course, that it is not relevant in the case of distribution policy issues whether income is earned by a self-employed person or a self-employed person. On the other hand, however, it must be clearly seen that there are very large differences between the different incomes – of course also between high and low – in the question – as it is so beautiful. [[Abg. May. Peter: There is one according to my employer's discount rate, which includes that!]] That is why I am in any case in favour of a special consideration of employees' incomes in a wide range of areas. What you've delivered here is a proposal – and you can't dispute that – from which, in particular, the payers of the income tax, that is to say, the income of themselves. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Peter]] Overall, your proposal is not socially balanced. At the same time, of course, we need to look at the way in which the tax outages look. I'm already at the next point. What about tax losses? – Mrs Schmidt said that she was for the reconstruction of the state that once again it should be properly reduced. [[Prolonged calls of the Abg. May. Peter.]] But she has something ashamed – which is otherwise not her way – to conceal what amounts it is actually about. A 10 percent reduction in the tariff means a tax loss of about 90 billion schilling. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: How do you get 90? 77!]] The loss of tax due to the benefit of 13th and 14ths. Monthly salary and other benefits amount to approximately 45 to 50 billion. That means you have a net tax loss of 40 to 45 billion schilling. [[Abg. May. Peter: That's not true! There is still a lack of taxation of...!]] I can only share the facts now. These are the figures from the funding report; they are official. You can of course distrust them, but these are the numbers that are officially available. Now you're saying, Well, I have to cut expenditure for 40 to 50 billion in a year. [[Abg. May. Peter: You take the wrong approach!]] Of course, it would be interesting to ask: Where? – It’s interesting that the only area you really mentioned is the family promotion, which you said was excessive. That was very concrete. In the other areas, you have said: In the administration one must save. [[Abg. May. Peter: Why don't you do it?]] That's quite right. The Secretary of State also supported this. However, I would ask you to see a little of the order of magnitude. It is not true that all of what you have counted as personnel costs is spent on the administration, but also on public service, health and safety. In the administration itself, the personnel costs may amount to a maximum of 80 billion schilling. And you want to reduce these to the extent of 50 billion schilling in a year? – That’s just not serious! [[Abg. May. Peter: The Professor juggles with numbers!]] I would ask you: Turn around! The test of seriosity is shown when you come to numbers, but unfortunately you didn't pass this test very well. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] However, I would like to make another comment, which applies to so many things. Mrs Schmidt has once again meant that this tax reduction is economically invigorating because it increases purchasing power. That's insulated. However, it must be seen that this only applies if one does not at the same time shorten expenditure. The expenditure of the State is, in turn, revenue from other citizens. What you spend on family promotion is another family's income. That is, it is not that it is money that disappears somewhere. All in all, this means that the simultaneous shortfalls of government expenditure and taxes are not expansive but restrictive. In the economy you get to know this under the name "Haavelmo effect". Mr Van der Bellen. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank Mr Van der Bellen for his excellent report. You may be able to explain your seat closer. So that means your logic just isn't right. It can, of course, be useful in a time of good economic situation to do so, but one must see the macroeconomic context, otherwise it is just a label flaw. Assuming label flaws: Finally, I would like to say a short sentence on the concept of flat tax and proportional tax, which Mr Haider and the FPÖ have discovered for themselves, and partly the industrial association. That is, instead of a progressive tax, there is a proportional tax. The capital income is not to be taxed at all if it is supposed to be taxed only once. I can't deal with this in detail now. [[Abg. Aumayr: You will still have to!]] I might just like to bring you two short quotes, because the whole thing is an ancient discussion. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: I haven't submitted anything, you already want to comment!]] Sorry! You didn't invent it. This is an ancient discussion in... – I turn to what you said in the last "press hour". [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You don't know what we're proposing yet!]] I know you're very flexible. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: I didn't say anything!]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] You always have to have a date stamp on your mind. But I'm going after the last date.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e11745	Ladies and gentlemen, please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e11760	I can't bring the longer quote. I therefore only bring a brief quote from a very simple textbook. This is the textbook of Samuelson/Nordhaus. Paul Anthony Samuelson is Nobel laureate, you all know him. [[Mr Haider and Mr Böhacker.]] He has briefly dealt with this subject in this textbook. I bring only the conclusion in which he says: The main disadvantage of this radical proposal – which he describes just now – is that it would lead to a massive redistribution of the tax burden on the rich and at the expense of the middle class. - Quote. That's what you're...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e11793	Deputies! Please, the speaking time is over! [[Abg. Dr. Novotny is trying to continue his speech.]] Deputies! You're not talking anymore! [[In the case of the SPÖ, please take a look at the box that leaves the speaker's desk. Dr. Novotny.]] The next speaker is Mr Dr. Stummful. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e11830	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to say that I have very much sympathy for some of the basic positions of the Liberal Forum, as expressed in this urgent question. I'm not making any of it. I have sympathy for the philosophy of the slim service state towards the thick administration and distribution state. No question at all. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: This is what the Secretary-General of the Federal Chamber says, the top price driver in the case of additional wage costs?]] I have sympathy for a number of detailed suggestions. For example, I also have sympathy for the detailed proposal for the abolition of inheritance tax. Even the highly appreciated speaker of the Greens, Van der Bellen, once said that the inheritance tax is a job killer. The spokesperson of the Greens said that. There must be alarm bells for everyone who takes job security seriously. The inheritance tax really belongs away in case of acquisitions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I also have very much sympathy for your proposal, Mr Peter, to relieve non-compulsory profits. No question at all. But when it comes to the core of your proposals, what Mr Novotny said is true. When the tax reform concept of the Liberals was presented, I was delighted to read the headline: "Settle income and wage taxes by a third." - I wanted to call Bravo. Then I read what the "purchasing price" is for. This was also mentioned today, namely full taxation of the 13th and 14ths. Monthly salary, full taxation of overtime, taxation of handling. Ladies and gentlemen! In my opinion, this is not a major tax reform. This is a move in and out of tax. I say quite openly, when I read this – I don't want to use the expression now – the word "trick" has come to my mind. First of all, to announce a third of a less wage and income tax and then to add a lot of tax charges, Mr. Peter, that's at the border – I say, at the border! - a pocket player trick. [[Abg. May. Peter:... that this is a completely new tax reform!]] – This cannot be a tax reform. This is a move to and from tax burden, Mr Peter. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Peter: This is the theme! You know that very well!]] But I also say quite openly in the direction of the government bank, where today Mr Ruttenstorfer and not Mr Edlinger, Minister of Finance, are sitting: For us from ÖVP, this is not a tax reform, which is to be read this week in the magazine "News": Each Austrian averages 200 S more. – In our opinion, this is not a tax reform. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smolle.]] I am convinced that the Minister of Finance, who is not present today, is a politicalally far too smart head to present us with such a tax reform, in which the headline could easily be read: Ederer-Tusender follows Edlinger-Hunderter. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] This too cannot be a tax reform, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would also like to make it clear that my party knows, of course, that the Minister for Finance is not Santa Claus. We also know that it is not about tax reform alone. The challenge is threefold: EC internal market, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and I say quite clearly: The EIA is absolutely committed to stability; Stability within the meaning of European economic and monetary union is an absolute priority. However, stability must not mean rigidity. Stability and a dynamic, offensive tax reform are no contradiction, ladies and gentlemen. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] For us from the People's Party, Mr Schweitzer, the following five principles apply to a tax reform in the sense of an offensive strategy. First: Increased purchasing power for the family, second: Release of the high-performance medium, third: [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: What?]] Employment security by tax promotion of Austria's economic location – I'm about to talk about it – fourthly: [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Who?]] Future security, particularly in the areas of pension provision, research and development and education; and fifthly: Degradation of tax bureaucracy. They ask: Who? Mr President, I should like to thank Here I agree with the Liberal Forum again and say quite openly, I am prepared to say this openly in all friendship, the formula of Mr Finanzminister, which reads as follows: I don't make tax reform if I need a savings package afterwards. – I once said that this formula is actually ingenious-diabolic. Mrs. Waberl says: Actually, he's right. What do I have if he gives me 200 s and then takes 300 s away. – But: This formula is diabolic in that it negatively affects the term "spare". – Ladies and gentlemen! I'd suggest: A few of us on the following definition: Save yes, but not at the expense of the citizens, but at the expense of state bureaucracy! That is what we can agree on, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Liberal Forum.]] But with such a formula, we do not overwhelm the positive value of saving. Ladies and gentlemen! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] On the question: How is that supposed to happen? – First of all: Increased purchasing power for families. We can cut that off, and I'll tell you: The economy and the family will not be divided, so this will also contribute fully to the economy and there is the proposal for Bartenstein to pay the karenz money. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We fully support this because we also have a family-political responsibility and because we know that a healthy family is a prerequisite for the well-being of a society, Mrs Schmidt! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I know. They're for homosexual marriage, we're for the family! In this we differ, no question at all! Secondly, discharge of the high-performance middle class. You know our concept: Reduction of marginal tax rates by two percentage points. Thirdly, EC countries, EC countries, EC countries, EC countries, EC countries, EC countries, EC countries, EC countries, EC countries, EC countries, EC countries, EC countries, EC countries, EC countries, EC countries, EC Mr Peter! We're very close to each other. Today, it is technically easier to support the elimination of discrimination against equity in the form of recognition of equity interest as a fictitious operating expenditure. At this point, our positions are quite close to each other. And we are probably also close to each other when it comes to how – fourthly – we can promote future security through incentives for research and development, for example by increasing the research allowance. I think we have a lot of similarities. On one point, however, we do not agree: A tax reform, in which taxes are only pushed down and down, is not a tax reform for us, ladies and gentlemen, but rather a discharge under the rule. I say quite openly: I agree with those experts who say that a genuine tax reform has to carry at least a volume of 35 to 40 billion schillings and under the rule a relief of at least 15 billion shillings. – That would be a challenge, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Perhaps, if we have the results of the Tax Reform Commission, we can enter into a constructive dialogue on this basis!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e11985	Mr Van der Bellen, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Van der Bellen, for his excellent report. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e12010	Mr President. Mr Van der Bellen has just said that Mr Van der Bellen is in favour of abolishing the inheritance tax, for whatever reason. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: You said that the inheritance tax is a job killer!]] I didn't say that either, I didn't use the word "jobkiller". I'm correcting: I have said that at present inheritances are taxed extremely differently in Austria, namely not at all – as in the case of Kest-based financial assets – over very distorted – for example real estate – up to full – such as commercial drives. That is why I think it is necessary to be friends with either the abolition of the inheritance tax or a total reform of the inheritance tax. And my preference is, if you want to know, a reform of inheritance tax.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e12045	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Haider. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e12067	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! It had to come as it is: Mr. Dr. Novotny, as economic spokesperson of the large government party, who has now come to us, has set out his position here and has explained why something is not going on. He is currently as the financial and economic spokesperson of his party everywhere, stating that a reduction in the wage tax burden is not possible. He warns – I quote now a colorful weekly magazine – his party to take a tax reduction. Today, the Secretary of State will act and say: The cold progression will probably be inside. – In reality, the example of this tax debate shows that the government has no concept, and that is the point. The Minister of Finance is now feeling shut down, because there are different tax policy ideas and because everyone knows that the burden of cold progression and the removal of different means of decommissioning and tax relief have increased considerably for workers in recent years. That is why he knows that he needs action. In 1988/89, after the last real wage tax reduction, the burden on workers was 88 billion schilling, and in 1998 it was almost 200 billion schilling. And in between, there is a huge burden on workers. An example: If a worker had earned 150 000 s in 1989, i.e. at the time of the last wage tax reduction, he would have to earn 187 350 s at today's prices, taking into account inflation, in order to compensate only for these effects. Of the additional 37 350 S, which are between the original 150 000 S and 187 000 S, he would have to pay 32 percent taxes, which is 11 950 S. His remaining income is thus 175 400 s this year, i.e. he has lost 10,000 s in real terms in the last ten years. This is a small income recipient, which is just above the tax limit, where taxation begins. 150,000 s are, as it were, the border from which one comes. With all that lies above, the tax progression is already beginning to work. Now I ask you: Is it really the fiscal objective of social democracy that it is already risking a massive increase in the burden on workers in the lower area? – This is the reason for the undeclared work, and this is the reason for the loss that many have in the performance, Mr State Secretary, because they say: It doesn't pay for us to work more, because I've been eating a lot of cold progression in recent years alone. – Since your arguments do not benefit from the fact that stability is important and that you have rehabilitated the budget. – You may have rehabilitated the budget, but you have done it at the expense of a very massive extra burden on the service providers, namely the diligent and skilled people in this country! That's it! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That is why I ask myself the question: Why Refuse You're a massive, noticeable tax reduction? Why Refuse You're going back to the cold progression? – Because, in fact, the Minister of Finance must already save for the EU's eastern opening, because this will be the next round of burden. That's why we say the liberals: Leave the nonsense of this eastern opening! & Move This project, and first of all, in Austria, arrange the conditions for performance to return to its worth, and for the citizens to exert themselves again and to have joy! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They always shudder when the liberals have new ideas. Mr. Dr. Novotny doesn't know our concept yet, but he's already saying: It's bad. This is the typical way to say in the reflex: Everything that comes from the opposition is bad. Nor do we say: Everything's bad that's in the LIF paper. You've been thinking about something, okay, that's what you're talking about. Your philosophy, whether it's good or bad, is a question of taste. Whether it's accepted by the people, that's a political decision, so Mr. Novotny can't say: Something I don't know is definitely bad because it comes from the FPÖ because it protects the rich and promotes the poor. Your policy – I think I could demonstrate it to you on this example – is at least an ongoing production of poverty cases in Austria and nothing else! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They tax every diligent person in this country as early as 150 000 s. Our model, as I have outlined it, would mean that up to a family income of 280 000 S to 300 000 S with two children is tax-free. That's attractive. Our model would mean, Mr President, that, for small and medium-sized enterprises, an investment can be written down to 100 percent in the first year. Do you know what that means? – This is an investment incentive! That's job policy! Not as you said: They are for gradual relief to increase employment and increase investment. I agree with you. But they are always on the reverse path! You have agreed to a prepayment of income tax in the savings packages. You've been subject to the loss talks. They do exactly the opposite of what makes investment fun. You have the 13th. Sales tax date introduced. You who go out here and talk big and say: We have to relieve people, we have to make the businesses fly again!, were involved! That's your policy! You are doing exactly the opposite of what you, Mr President, stupidly promote here. Otherwise, I could go with you. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Because now you've beaten your hands together, I'm telling you: You really have to hit your hands together! [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Yes, about you!]] But you have to put your hands over your head, Mr. Cot. Your group – Mr Feurstein is sitting here – has now tabled a request that all, including foreigners, in the context of emergency aid, should be included retroactively with April. Now, then, a three-digit million extra wage cost will be added! [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: That's not true!]] I congratulate you on this policy. That's exactly your policy, that's what's going on, you have these intentions! [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: That's not true as often as it is!]] Compare this with our consideration: Attractive to the family, attractive to the employee if he has higher free borders and only a uniform tax rate, which is low, and attractive also for the economy that can write off investments to 100 percent. I don't want to do this in detail now, but that's a possible variant, which I admit I like a little better than this ongoing policy of small steps, in which you add something, then take a little bit away and have a very complicated tax system that basically doesn't work. Because you have taxed the wrong people in recent years – I already agree. They have made special arrangements, for example, in the case of merger losses. They have offered large companies the opportunity to unite subsidiaries with parent companies. These have built accounting losses, but they were not real at all, and this has cost the state alone 1 billion schilling of taxes. And the small one, the employee waiting for the wage tax reduction between 1989 and 1998, pays that. That's the real problem! If you say that you are also in favour of a fair administrative reform and that you want the money to come into the administration through economy, I agree with you on this point, my colleague. Then I ask you: But why then? Your Minister of Agriculture Molterer in his ministry issues the officials with special contracts in which there are huge overtime breaks – against the law –? These are prohibited, there are only use allowances. These top officials have collected 300 000 S and more for overtime last year, against the law, but they are political party members of Mr Molterer, and therefore we are spending the money. In the case of a normal use allowance to pay the additional work load, this would not be possible; a much higher amount will be spent. – That’s what I’m really asking myself: How honest is the policy of saving administrative reform if you are already starting to equip your ministers with privileges that are even counter-legislative? We will request a special examination. Let's see what it is like in all ministries, whether the Secretary of State tells us the truth when he says: We're going to tighten the belt in the administration now! – In reality, the development is running in such a way that you are constantly adding new ones up there, while reducing where services are provided to the population, whether the police, the Gendarmerie, or social services. I believe that this is the mistake of administrative reform, as we do not want it to be!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e12150	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e12165	Finally, Mr President, I say that the tax policy debate is essential for us because only with low taxes will the state really be forced to narrow down, and only with low taxes is Austria's location quality guaranteed for the future so that there is more jobs.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e12195	The next speaker is Mr Deputies Van der Bellen. Maximum speaking time also for him 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e12217	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address the urgent needs of the Liberal Forum even more critically than Mr Novotny. They have used the word "righteous distribution" and have been put into play very comprehensively and repeatedly in different contexts. In reality, I believe that you are in the main client policy, which should not be allowed to run under the flag of "provisional justice". In principle, there is nothing to say about client policy, but you should operate it openly and not hide it. [[Abg. May. Peter: Do you know our clients?]] I'm gonna come back to it all the time! I would also like to say, of course, that we agree on many points in your paper, for example the textual introduction, which mentions that savings packages I and II have led to the highest rate of taxation in the second Republic. This is undisputed and indisputable. And the fact that the Federal Government has political concepts for sufficient expenditure consolidation is also indisputable. And your paper also contains an interesting reference to the parallel structures, double-tracks between financial authorities and social security institutions. I can go with you in many such details. [[Abg. Smolle: In the heart you are a liberal!]] But now I focus on the unilateral representations in your paper and on the omissions in my opinion. Just because of what you're not saying, you're doing more client policy in your paper than anything else. On the question of favouring 13th and 14ths. Mr Novotny has already given his opinion. The Greens have repeatedly pointed out that the favour of the 13th and 14th Of course, salary is, above all, a benefit to the highest and highest incomes in the field of the self-employed, thus disproportionately favouring these wage earners, and a wage tax reform in favour of lower and medium incomes should change somewhat. However, they do something quite different: They want the favor of 13th and 14th. To abolish salary and thus finance a general reduction in tariffs, which benefits all possible people, not only workers but, of course, self-employed and tradesmen. As a result, the peak tax rate for self-employed would fall from 50 percent to 40 percent and for the unemployed from around 43 to 40 percent. The difference is, therefore, that the reduction in self-employed is 20 per cent and about 7 per cent for the self-employed. Therefore, I do not know why this should be under the word "distribution justice". [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I welcome in itself the mention of the word "righteous distribution" which I support. But if you really want to talk about distribution justice, I ask you, if you quote the last OECD report on Austria several times in your paper, to quote it completely and not selectively. For example, on page 75 of the German edition, I now grasp this quite arbitrarily, look at the table entitled "Marginal Tax Rates by Income Level": There you can find something amazing. For me, it is indeed amazing to note that, unlike almost all other OECD countries, we have a regressive income tax structure, which falls from 47.5% for bad earners to 35.7% for good-earners. – These are the problems we have to deal with in the area of distribution justice! Or why has the statement of the table on page 71 not been raised to you? The table is entitled "Effective average tax rates on capital, labour and turnover". In Austria, the effective average taxation of labour is currently twice as high as that of capital. These are essential words if you are already cutting "distribution justice"! However, this does not happen in your text or in the individual inquiries. They take over a chapter title, which reads: High tax burden on the labour factor. That's clear, we know! But the next chapter heading of the OECD – it is not about any paper of the "Red Stock Exchange" – does not quote it, because it reads: "Low effective taxation of wealth income." – I am waiting for you to comment on this! [[Abg. Smolle: You need to read our overall concept!]] I don't have to read Goethe forward and backward! If you make an urgent request, I will read the text of your urgent request – because you can expect it with fug and law – and the questions. Please send the rest, please, to my home or visit the office, and I will read it on occasion! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Let's talk about distribution justice! Let us take the OECD "Revenue Statistics", last issue of August 1998, and see what Austria actually differs from other countries! That's very interesting! The layman also notes – he only needs a little sense of numbers – that, for example, the Austrian tax system cannot be progressive overall, but at best is proportional but probably regressive. This means that lower incomes have to pay more taxes than those paid by the upper incomes. This is also a consequence – I have to say – of social-democratic financial policy, because you have finally appointed the Minister of Finance for 28 years. This should also be mentioned in this context. The Austrians do not know the following: The Austrians are always horrified and shrunk under the progressive taxation of wages and incomes. There are those. That's right. However, the progressive taxation of wages and incomes is counter-carriaged by all other taxes, especially social security contributions, which have a regressive effect in proportion or from the maximum basis of contributions. From quantitative weight you can see this at first glance: Social security contributions are now far more important in Austria than all income-related taxes, i.e., wage tax, income tax, Kest and corporate tax combined make up less than the social security contributions. All of this can be compared with figures from other EU countries in order to see to what extent Austria differs in this area. You seem to have no interest in the property tax because it does not appear in your paper! The fact that the tax on wealth, which typically affects higher incomes, is traditionally much lower in Austria than in the EU average, now "naturally" is still "falling", because we have, of course, ended the tax on property, and is now all in all a third of the EU average, a quarter of the values of Switzerland – a "ursocialist" country – a fifth of the values of the USA – must also be at work! –, one sixth of the United Kingdom – thatcher government has passed away without a trace! – all these are phenomena that should be discussed in the context of distribution justice. This should be discussed, but not limited to the abolition of a tax privilege for the self-employed in favour of a tariff reduction for the self-employed. That alone can't be it! I also regret the fact that you have addressed only a single question about the ecologisation of the tax system, with a question of 21. We used to fight hand in hand, and now that seems to be no longer a topic for you. On this occasion, Mrs. Schmidt, I would like to ask you: Don't you notice how the tax reform debate is smearing? Don't you remember how you're already entering this tradition? Originally, a huge tax reform commission was set up to investigate death and devils, from the financial compensation to the drinking and basic tax to the wage, income and corporate tax, the relationship between labour and capital, everything that is good and expensive. And what are we talking about now? – From a modest tariff correction in the area of wage and income tax! I don't want to be misunderstood: The Greens, too, are in favour of paying off the cold progression of income tax or wage tax and have always demanded it, no question at all. But for that we do not need a tax reform commission, two officials in the Ministry of Finance, perhaps just one! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Perfect!]] We have also called for an ecologisation of the tax system, which Mr Edlinger has repeatedly and ambiguously agreed with. But all this kind of laughs! And I very much regret that in your urgent matter, which comes at a proper time, these major questions are not being addressed, but that you are using them to do so in order to achieve the outcome of your clause with the abolition of the favour of the 13th and 14ths. For sale. I understand. But a biterl has already disappointed me, even if the question is under the big word "for distribution justice". I mean that distribution justice is really much, much more than that!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e12313	The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e12335	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Just before Mr Van der Bellen started speaking, I thought that we now have a urgent question that I will be able to deal with the failure of the Federal Government. But now I also have to deal with the polemics of my very much appreciated colleague. Van der Bellen! [[Abg. May. Posch: That wasn't a polemic, that was a fact-finding!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen.]] Mr Van der Bellen! Of course you're right. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Get out of the glass house!]] May I ask for attention! Perhaps we will try to really discuss here from this point on! We are rarely sitting in committees together, so I would like to address a few aspects now. You are right to say that this question is imperfect. That's what I'm giving you! She's not the world machine. We are dealing, this is admitted in the request, exclusively with income taxes, exclusively! But you know, because you also referred to our clause that we also called for the capital income tax to be increased from 25 per cent to 30 per cent. But this is not the subject of this request, I admit. You also know that, as you do, we believe that the fact that social security contributions are the subject of advance taxes is an extremely disquieting matter, because it triggers exactly the effects you have described. However, that was not the subject of this request! If, however, you submit to us in this context, Mr Van der Bellen, that this is not a matter for which we have been acting for years and days, as you know, then I am too brief. You only know the paper, you say, and it's not in this. - That's right! I admit it! But don't pretend you'd suffer from memory loss! You will not have forgotten the debates over the last three years! And by the way, environmental tax reform is mainly used in the case of additional wage costs, which are not present here. If you blame us for not dealing with the additional wage costs, I admit that. But that was not the subject of this request! And if you think that the sixth advantage, which is very much focused here, does not serve distribution justice, I say: This is probably true of the Board of Directors of the large stock companies, for the top officials in the chambers who take with them "windfall profits" from the sixth benefits, of which an ordinary self-employed can only dream! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Do you understand me? On the other hand, if you look at mass incomes, the new self-employed, the small traders, then you will see that, although there is something important for the self-employed in the annual result, we often return it to them with the tax reform. And why should we not give this to the small merchants? Let me give you a reason why it is not a distribution right if I want to give the Greißler the same taxes as the employee in Company A or B if both have in principle the same annual income! And don't tell me the Greißler has more options to do control tricks. Don't follow me! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] It is rather to ask whether one should not also give the self-employed more opportunities to actually apply directly to expenditure they have, for example for continuing and continuing training. I would have expected you to do that! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] But I do not want to use my relatively slim speaking time now, because we can still talk about it in depth on occasion. In the context of this question, it is not my main concern to deal with you, you will believe me. It was only important for me to tell you from this point of view that both social cohesion and competitiveness and fundamental rights are three essential and necessary features of a well-ordered society. And if you are dealing with just one aspect of it, then it is still difficult to make a break constantly after each sentence. I am of course of the opinion that fundamental rights are important, and I believe that social cohesion is important. If you don't believe this, it's your right! I reject it because the social concerns of the Liberal Forum should now be so undisputed that sometimes the impression has arisen that we have too little economic competence. If you would have blamed us sometime, I would rather have accepted it, at least temporarily. You must not think that if you turn to certain aspects, such as cold progression, you have something to do with injustice, because income from wage and income tax – and you know where the power lies, the power of wage tax – has increased by 88 percent from 1990 to today. This is compared with an economic performance increase of only 38 percent over the same period. This sheer must be closed, namely, in the case of mass incomes! In this context, I would like to mention Mr Novotny, who is currently not in the hall. He said that it would be very bad if the bulk income and thus the purchasing power increased, unless much better if the state were to spend the money, because the swirling of the economy increased. [[Abg. May. Posch: He certainly didn't say that!]] I also believe that the State is in the field of infrastructure investment, etc. pp. which Seine has to do. But I cannot see what mass purchasing power is supposed to be bad for economic development, except for the fact that in this case people can decide for themselves what they are spending the money for. You may not like that, that could be already. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Smolle: (in the direction of the Abg. May. Posch) You must listen to the Novotny when he talks!]] If you get rid of the monthly sizes and look at the year, you will realize that the annual result after taxes is interesting for someone paying taxes. Because what is still anachronistic today under the term "sixth favour" actually benefits only the high income. Mr. Stummful has the 13th and 14ths. Monthly wage defends. Did I get that right? You meant that was... [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Not a majority, I said!]] Yes! You said that was not a majority. But it is not the "multiplier" who deserve so much that they make the 13th and 14th. We still need salary. I don't mean that! [[Abg. Koppler: Make S’ a press release, Mr. Stummful!]] I think that the trade union would be well advised to consider what it is that some of its own functionaries have long been "windfall" profiters of the sixth advantage and therefore slow down. For example, those who work at the second level in the company and earn well say that they will no longer care for the degree of organization in their businesses when the 13th or 14th Monthly wage is being attacked. Let's have this discussion! I know she'd lead. But that's evil, because people with low incomes are pre-glowed, one defends something for them, in reality, but few defend something for themselves and claim that they do it for the others. That's bad, it's bad. This debate must be broken down. And do not let yourself be bluffed by headlines in the "Kronen Zeitung" and also not by the Minister of Finance, who on this question may have gone a quick press gag on glue. Because if you want to move something, you have to rework within the system. Repaintings are not pocket-player tricks, otherwise everything that means a rework would be a pocket-player trick. I would like to point out that Mr Novotny's accusation is the most decisive one. Mr State Secretary! I would also like to address a partial aspect that affects me, as it were, on the technical level: We have stated in our request that the European Monetary Institute assumes that the high Austrian tax rate could endanger Austria's economic location. You said you couldn't find the appropriate place. . I help you, this is the report from which this is quoted. [[The speaker shall keep the report of the European Monetary Institute up to date.]] It is from March 1998. However, I admit that this report refers to the revenue ratio, i.e. the amount without payments to the EU. It is therefore a lower amount. But he has exactly the same tendency, only the loads are even lower. It is clear from this revenue ratio that it could harm economic growth. Look at page 107! Read this carefully, and be honest. I admit that the word tax quota does not stand in it, but the revenue ratio – I agree with you. However, we have not put the tax rate as a quote, but only the economic result. And 45.7 percent actually hold a little bit. We know that this comes from social contributions, we know that there is a need for reform in this area, we know, and that there are 30 000 people working there, we know. Nowotny himself meant that 80 billion Schilling were direct administrative costs. I'm telling you in all clear terms: If we do not succeed in saving at least 25 percent of these 80 billion in a reasonable short time, then those responsible are not worth the money they get! For I can demand from the government that it implements a rapid, efficient and streamlined administrative reform and not just in the system. It is now subject to contract law, but at the same time it can be justified by the GOD that these contract staff, these "minors", these "runners", of course cannot occupy leadership positions. - But what do I need them for? As water carrier for the Pragmatized? That's what I'm gonna give to the dirt a Wach'n. I don't need that. I want someone who works in the public service, and whether he is only a contract servant, to be able to carry out any management function there, and that is on time! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Lassing has shown us what happens to a minister who has made more than one mistake in this context himself if he is beginning to be careful! He comes across his pragmatized mountain authority. He's tearing down the ore of Pragmatization. In this case, criminal law may help, for if criminal acts have been committed, I will also get Pragmatized away with criminal law. But it cannot be the Ultima ratio of the administrative reform that I can only change something if someone makes himself punishable. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e12489	The next speaker is Mr Gartlehner. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e12510	Mr President. Estimated Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to remind you of what Mr Novotny said in this context, since it was clearly not mentioned correctly by Mr Kier. – Mr Novotny spoke of the Haavelmo effect, of the Haavelmo theory, which means that tax reduction and at the same time a reduction in public expenditure always lead to a negative economic effect, a negative national income. The interpretation that Mr Kier has just made is, in my view, mistaken or deliberately wrong. I believe, however, that the fixing of this question by the Liberals on the tax quota is in principle a matter of concern because it does not see total access. In the event of a further rise in the tax rate, it may be appropriate to draw back on the fact that it stands somewhere, the tax rate could lead to negative effects. This is not the case, however, because this historically high tax rate, as it is currently available, can also be compared with a historically high employment rate in that country. [[Abg. Smolle: But the unemployment rate too can unfortunately be seen!]] This means that the tax rate has not yet shown any negative effects, and that we also have a historical view of the highest employment in this country since 1945. In my opinion, therefore, it should not be discussed in isolation. The fact is that budget consolidation has been excellent in recent years. The Secretary of State has already done so in detail. I can only congratulate the Federal Government on maintaining this in this follow-up, because, unlike other consolidation packages, a very strict controlling on ministerial lives has been introduced and also observed. We see, therefore, that the implementation of these savings programmes has also been kept in comparison. Another criticism that I would like to make about the Liberals' request is simply this one - how should I say? – popular or populist form, the bureaucracy urgently needs to be rehabilitated, at least 25 percent in the coming years, says Volker Kier. It is true that we have a relatively high percentage of bureaucracy in Austria, which is also historically conditional, I think, as we all know. [[Abg. Smolle: History takes a little while!]] In any case, we know that any savings in the public service are de facto leading to private unemployment, because not all those who push on the market are admitted there because their activities are partly not requested at all. It is therefore necessary to make an evolutionary process take the form of really not replacing exits only where it is possible, because the reform process in the administration must also be carried out by those concerned and we know that the persons concerned must also implement the benefits and the claims made by us. No one should be overburdened. I'm saying it the way it is. In addition, we must ensure that despite good economic conditions, the rule is that growth does not mean at the same time an increase in employment. There has also been a great change in international globalisation policy in recent years. We should rather try to make the tax collection better and more consistent. In other words, we must try to continue to simplify the tax system. But we should not just debate a tax reduction. On the one hand, there are taxes, on the other hand the salaries and wages. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: I'm already here!]] Oh! He's already here! – Mr Colleague! They said we should try to strengthen the purchasing power. For us Social Democrats, however, it was also said that we must do something about wages and salaries in real income. [[Abg. Böhacker: This is the easiest way through wage tax reduction!]] There will be an opportunity for this in the next few weeks. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: More net, less gross!]] I am convinced that our friends will appeal to you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I do not want to talk about the "flat tax" ideas of the FPÖ today, because we want to wait for security for what we have to expect, but if, according to the statements of Jörg Haider in the last "press hour", of course, it would be a very unsocial and... [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Thank you for listening!]] Of course, yes! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Now I know why I always have such high quotas! Because all the representatives of the government groups listen!]] In connection with this "flat tax" story, however, I noticed that it was presented a little uncertainly! That's why I'd rather wait. As Novotny mentioned, the LIF model would cost 50 billion schilling – that is clear from the figures. The actual implementation of this model would mean that some 100,000 people in the public service would have to be saved – by reducing it to staff savings only. Finally, I would like to say: We will negotiate the tax reform 2000 with our coalition partner in January. The team that will take part in these negotiations for the SPÖ consists of Edlinger and Stix. We trust that our Polit-Realos Edlinger and Stix will negotiate with high social conscience and with a great deal of expertise. The principle applies to us that not only tax reductions, but also tax increases can be possible here or there – this has been debated sometime today. I am convinced that the SPÖ model will make good cuts in the debate on tax reform. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e12631	The next speaker was Mr Feurstein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e12653	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Today's debate was initiated with a major statement by the Liberals, in which they expressed the desire for a debate on tax reform. – Ladies and gentlemen from the Liberal Forum! In fact, you are not concerned with a general tax reform, but with a model for changing the income tax system. And not only Van der Bellen, but also Dr. Stumvoll has clearly dealt with your model and made it clear how wrong, how dangerous, yes, how impossible for taxpayers your model would be! [[Abg. May. Peter: Above all, it would lower the tax privilege of Mr. Feurstein! I understand.]] I can say very briefly what you... Mr. Mag. [[Abg. May. Peter: You’re afraid of your 13. and 14. Pay!]] Peter! Its model provides for a huge shift from non-employment income to income. [[Abg. May. Peter: You pay more, that's clear!]] The one who works may pay for your model as he pays more tax, the one who does not work will benefit from your model – and that is the danger of your model, Mr. Peter. [[Abg. May. Peter: So the self-employed do not work?]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Trattner: You're an excavator!]] And within the employed people you intend to make a huge change from the self-employed to the unself-employed – that is, the unself-employed are asked by you to check out. [[Abg. May. Peter: Do you want more self-employed or less?]] [[Abg. May. Peter: You want less!]] 13th and 14ths. Monthly salary is fully taxed on your model. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Unheard!]] Overtimes are fully taxed on your model. [[Abg. May. Peter: 200 000 to 6 percent! That's a reason!]] Mr Peter! You want to pay half the tax! [[Abg. May. Peter: 200 000 to 6 percent! That you don't generate!]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is a huge redistribution from the unself-employed – the self-employed are supposed to pay for your tax reform! And we can and must clearly say no to that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Peter! Inconsistency is also reflected in the fact that on the one hand you want to raise the peak tax rate from 50 to 40 per cent, but on the other hand, as Mr Kier has said several times, additional taxes on wage costs would be reduced simply by removing the maximum contribution basis for social security contributions. [[Abg. May. Peter: This too is only half right!]] These are wage increases, huge ones that cannot be accepted. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Peter: And how you say that! You know that very well! I'll throw you polemics!]] The contradiction of your concept is apparently that its effects would be disastrous. However, let me briefly comment on tax reform, on income tax and wage tax reform, which is today, but also otherwise, in all mouths. It is certainly true that this discussion has repeatedly pointed out that in recent years the labour force, the income taxpayers and the wage taxpayers have made a constantly increasing and growing contribution to tax revenue. From 1990 to 1998, wage tax revenue increased by 80 percent, but total taxes and taxes increased only by 64 percent. That is to say, in these eight years, the taxpayers have made a much higher contribution than all other taxpayers. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: This is this government policy where you are!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Feurstein complains about himself!]] This includes VAT and excise duties, I am talking about the whole tax revenue, Mr Haider. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Your policy, Gottfried!]] That is why we have set ourselves a tax reform which clearly relieves lower and medium incomes. Our proposal is to reduce those rates which affect medium and lower incomes. This would mean that, unlike the proposals of the Liberal Forum, which provide for a reduction of 10 percent – something which cannot be financed – the lower and medium rates of taxation are moderately reduced by 2 percentage points. Ladies and gentlemen, this is realistic! [[Abg. Koppler: But this is only a part of your proposals!]] I regret the fact that a proposal from the Ministry of Finance of these days was put forward about 200 p.m. I do not think that this is a realistic proposal: 200 S! [[Abg. You don't know, 300!]] I've read 200 S, but maybe it's 300 S, Mr. Vergestnich. But neither 200 S nor 300 S are a realistic proposal. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] We must therefore say quite clearly: Some things are untouchable for us in this tax reform. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Sakrosankt!]] I have already mentioned the first point clearly: no attack on the 13th and 14ths. Monthly salary and the finalisations – no attack on these two areas. [[Abg. Böhacker: I hear the message well, I alone lack faith!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: He doesn't believe that himself!]] Second point: I regret, Secretary of State, that the tax reform committee has repeatedly pushed out discrepancies. [[Abg. Haigermoser: You always do this over backrooms!]] I don't know if these are real or targeted indiscretions. But if it is said that the Tax Reform Commission intends to change the unit values and calculate the basic tax from the transport values, I must say that such a proposal is not only a majority but is totally wrong. [[Abg. Böhacker: This is the current legal situation, Mr Feurstein!]] An increase in the basic tax must be excluded from the tax reform. Ladies and gentlemen! Nowhere in the tax reform package can there be a change in the basic tax – this is a very crucial point. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In our opinion, however, other important aspects should also be taken into account. As part of the tax reform, for example, self-sufficiency should be strengthened, Mr Peter – but self-sufficiency in all employment incomes, not only for individuals. Those who provide for themselves, who contribute to the strengthening of personal responsibility, should have a tax relief. [[Abg. May. Peter: Self-sufficiency is not promoted!]] That is why it will be a very important point for us to come to a tax relief when someone cares for himself. For persons who care for themselves ultimately relieve the state. – This is a very important point. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let me say one last point on collective reform. It is always claimed that a collective reform is unrealistic. We carried out a very generous collective reform in 1988 – and with that I also reply to Dr. Haider – which took into account exactly what I have formulated today as principles. This collective reform, of course, has at the moment led to a certain reduction in income tax and income tax revenue, but finally it has led to a recovery of the economy and thus helped to reorganise the state budget. The 1988 tax reform was a contribution to the reform of the state budget, and we expect that the 1999/2000 tax reform will also contribute to the further reorganisation of our state budget. Because stability – as Dr. stupidly said – is a very important aspect to be taken into account in this tax reform, and it would be wrong to make a tax reform that would call into question the stability of our government budget. Indeed, tax reform should endanger our employment and labour market situation, rather than improve it. These are just two important principles to be observed. We will certainly deal with this tax reform in such a timely manner over the next few months that it will also come to a decision at the earliest possible time.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e13025	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Trattner. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e13047	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! It has been this way for years – and that is why you do not need to debate details here: For years, the opposition parties have been presenting tax models, and the government parties are always looking for excuses as to why one or the other is not going. It is also quite clear to everyone that you can't pull out of every paper the Gustopückerl. Above all, however, it is clear to all here in the House that the only ones who come with concrete concepts and papers are the opposition parties – primarily the Freedom Party. On the other hand, the government parties have done nothing at all, but they only announce any tax reform commission that has no competence. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Why does the Tax Reform Commission have no competence? – You can set up commissions with 30 people, 40 people, 80 specialists, foreigners, foreigners and so on – if they don’t have a pouvoir within which they can move if you don’t tell them: You have a maneuver mass of 30 or 40 billion schilling!, they can't do anything. They cannot maneuver, but they only have the requirement to repaint at best. And then, on the one hand, only 2% of the tax progression or, on the other hand, a few free amounts come out. The Reds even sneak out of the debate. Why are you sneaking out? – You do this because now the time has come, as the budget cosmetics have come to an end. They don't have any more money, they can't make anything available! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Stippel: Especially at the FPÖ! Especially in the FPÖ-Nederösterreich!]] But that is what we have always said, Mr State Secretary. You have said clearly before that you do not agree with 2.6% budget deficit, so you are not happy. This is for the first time that you admit it. What does the Stability Pact say? – You have to work towards a balanced budget or a small budget surplus, and this balanced budget and the small budget surplus cost at least 80 billion schilling. That lacks! The one-time effects are over, all the budget cosmetic measures are over. It is over with the loss talks or with the one-time effects of breakdowns and privatisations. Now you have nothing more to distribute, because now you have nothing to privatize. You can't move the supplier's obligations out any longer. Now you're practically at the end. You don't have money to go through a tax reform, and that's why you're always always just looking for excuses. And that's the criticism! We don't need to talk about progression changes – as a tax reduces, there increases a tax – you don't have the money to do that. And that's the problem! This problem is aggravating as you have focused all your expectations only on export. Domestic demand has totally neglected you, because there has been no real increase in income, they have even been reduced. Now, due to the East Asian crisis, the first export collapses will come as a result of the Russia crisis. What are you doing? You have a state of liability of 359 million schilling. Of these 359 million Schilling alone, 107 million Schilling are already re-indebted, 39 million for Russia and 38 million for Poland. [[Abg. Böhacker: billions!]] Yes, how long do you want to re-debt that? You want to re-debt it for as long as possible so that you can pull it out again and again – ah, billions, excuse me! – so that you do not have to put it in the budget, which would practically increase government debt or deficit. [[Call: Billions! billions, not millions]] [[Abg. Hans Helmut Moser: millions or billions – that's not exactly!]] That's your problem! You don't have any more money for a tax reform. You have only announced them with a tax reform commission, and you do not need to debate here. They are always looking for excuses, why there is something to criticize on one or the other paper. Why don't you sit down with the matter? Enter the different papers and say: This and that is feasible and not that! But then you also have to say which manoeuvring mass you have. And if you don't have a maneuver mass, you can also forget the Tax Reform Commission and all your party negotiations on tax reform in January. That's all empty air.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e13131	Mr Schwarzenberger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e13161	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Today, the Liberal Forum has, in itself, tried to discuss its basic security model under the heading tax reform. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: At what event you were at!]] I also say quite openly: From the point of view of agriculture, I would almost have sympathy for this basic insurance model if it were eligible for funding. Maybe a very simple bill: According to statistics in agriculture, we have around 985,000 people on 240 000 farms. If, according to the basic security model, 8 000 S was paid in the month or guaranteed as income, that would be about 100 000 S per person in the year, so for everyone – that is a simple bill – about 100 billion schilling. The current total agricultural income is 38 billion schilling. Approximately 20 billion Schillings are paid to rural pensions. That's all together, then, 58 billion schilling. – So we would add between 30 and 40 billion schilling to basic security. What would be done, for example, by a part-time worker in a commercial enterprise that currently receives less than 8,000 S net? I'm sure she wouldn't go to work anymore. – For these reasons, an account must first be presented as to how this can be financed at all. Secondly, Mr Haider spoke of the many overtimes in the ministries. But he obviously confused this quickly with the office of the Council of State. There was an employee who wrote hundreds of overtimes a month and then had a disciplinary procedure because he had not done these overtime at all. [[Abg. Böhacker: That was an ÖVPler!]] There were days when he had written more than 24 hours. And that obviously confused Dr. Haider. Mr Böhacker will know. There was a Dr. Schmittner in this office. No, no, no, Soon, I'm not going to take one of the ÖVPs to his office, so to speak, as head of the office. [[Abg. Böhacker: Think! First think, then talk!]] You're confused, I think, the law firms. [[Abg. Böhacker: That was an ÖAAB man!]] No, it wasn't an ÖAAB man, it was a freeman. Perhaps he will come back to the ÖAAB again, because in Salzburg so many distanced from the Freedom Party. [[Abg. Böhacker: He was at the ÖVP! Then he left! Stay with the truth!]] Undoubtedly, the tax and tax rate in Austria is very high. We are therefore in the upper middle of the EU countries. [[Abg. Böhacker: By the way, this Schmittner is consultant to the ÖVP mayor! From Mooshammer and so on!]] So you deny that Dr. Schmittner wrote in the office of the Council of State quickly more overtime than he did that he wrote hundreds of overtimes every month and therefore had a disciplinary procedure, whereby Dr. Fast confirmed all these overtimes even. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Because he's a black man!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Because he's an ÖVPler, and the blacks are always dizzying!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we are seeking a tax reform. It is also enshrined in the Federal Government's work agreement during this legislative period. We expect this tax reform to relieve the middle class of benefits. [[Intercom calls at the Liberal Forum.]] A tax reform is of course also a social concern. I would point out that we have already decided on a first part of the tax reform in this year. In part, the Family Tax Reform comes with 1. January 1999, in a further part of 2000 in force. In other words, there will be less taxes per family or a higher family allowance per child of 6 000 s per year, for two children 12 000 S, and for the third child, provided that the monthly income of the family is below 42 000 S, plus 10 800 S. This means that a family with three children in 2000 will receive 22 800 S alone through the family tax reform. I see this as a first very useful measure in this area. In the last few days there has also been a discussion about the karenz money. If we succeed – we are supposed to be worth not only all children but also all mothers alike – that those mothers who already have two small children and can no longer be in a working relationship for this reason, even for a third child in line with the model that Bartenstein has proposed, this is a very important contribution in the financial security of families. It is a right step in the right direction, and it is a recognition of the performance of child rearing and an essential contribution to the financial security of women and children. However, we also have some demands in agriculture for this tax reform 2000. For example, Finance Minister Edlinger has promised us to regulate the pre-tax remuneration in the tax reform 2000. There is evidence that farmers are currently paying more than 1 billion schilling more VAT on investment goods and means of production than they are taking on VAT for their products. This rate of VAT would be in this area, and in itself a dry running position, but we recommend that those farmers who make larger investments proceed to the rule of taxation so that they can, as it were, pay VAT fairly. This does not make sense, however, because it only involves additional work in agriculture and in the finance ministries. In view of the fact that 200 000 farmers had to make monthly VAT returns and that they should also be checked, this certainly makes no sense. A package would be much more reasonable, but this package must be justifiable. However, we also expect the re-establishment of agricultural unit values to take place very well on a profit-based basis, and we also, of course, expect income tax reduction to be maintained in the future, as has been proven in agriculture. I believe that, in this area, in the framework of tax reform 2000 from the year 2000, we will be able to place some emphasis on the high-performance middle class, but also on the lower levels of income.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e13301	Mr Böhacker is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 7 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e13322	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Mr. Feurstein – he's not in the house anymore – has taken a manly stand at this speaker's desk and said: [[Abg. Murauer: Oh yeah, he's already in the house!]] A one-value increase, one-value after the transport value does not come into question for us! Mr Feurstein obviously does not know the assessment law. The unit value – and this is also evidenced by a request from Minister of Finance Edlinger – has to be based on the transport value. For if the unit values are now adjusted to the traffic values, then there is no need for a legislative decision. This damocles sword floats over all Austrian citizens. – The first. Mr State Secretary! You see, I'm disappointed if you answer this urgent question. I thought: All right, today the Minister of Finance does not come, because we already know his answers externally. But you, too, Mr State Secretary, have hidden behind the Tax Reform Commission, you have told of the commissions you are using, of studies you are making. It is always about preparing something for the future, but there is no implementation. You, Mr State Secretary, have also made a very good statement from the point of view: They want to come from an orderly state to a service state. All right! Only, these are keywords, the facts look different. Do you understand under a service state the closure of small financial offices? Do you understand the closing of district courts under the state of service? Do you see the reduction of the number of staff as a service, so that an effective tax collection can no longer be carried out in the area of financial management? – This, Mr State Secretary, is not a service state! They are also talking about the equality of taxation. This is very commendable, but, Mr State Secretary, you should know that there has been no such equality of taxation in Austria for a long time. It is the big ones who can afford to shift profits across Europe, the companies can postpone profits, and the token pays the small taxpayer, the employee who cannot move his income accordingly. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Here, Mr. State Secretary, you have a real need for action. But when it comes to the legitimate requirement to finally help the country of origin to break through the VAT, the EU is suddenly to blame: No directives, no proposal for a directive, so we can't do anything! But without If and But entering the EU instead of creating the appropriate framework conditions. Now you're falling on your head. It is precisely this provision in VAT law that does not apply the country of origin, but the country of destination principle, costs the Austrian taxpayers billions each year, which disappear into dark channels, which are prevented from the State by tax fraud. But you don't do anything about it! So with one word: Again, the EU is to blame. If you listen to the statements made by representatives of the government parties, you can only say: The tax reform discussion shows a total chaos – but not only in terms of content, Mr State Secretary, but also in terms of date. I looked at this more closely: In 1996, the Minister of Economic Affairs called for a major tax reform for 1999. Minister of Finance Climate replied: We don't need it! Don't go right now! Four months later, the then Minister of Finance, current Federal Chancellor, suddenly announced: Comprehensive tax reform for 1999! Again a few months later: Yes, climate calls for tax reform for 1999! The same in November 1996: Tax reform 1999! Now, suddenly, Mr. Finanzminister Edlinger comes and says: No tax reform 1999 or 2000 or maybe 2001! – This is the handshake quality of this federal government. They promise the citizen a tax reform from 1999 onwards, but suddenly it is not. They say: We don't have money, we don't want it! The citizens should pay, pay and pay again. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Until they get black!]] But this, Mr State Secretary, is an unfair policy towards the citizens. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But the bird has shot down the Minister for Consumer Affairs Prammer, who has also interfered in this debate on tax reform. Mrs Prammer's statement was: No reasonable person makes a tax reform before a choice! It proposes a shift in the tax reform to 2001 and believes that the changes could then be retroactively put into effect. – This must be broken on the tongue: We are making a tax reform in 2001 and allow this tax reform to enter into force retroactively with 2000 or 1999. Do you know what you're doing with it? – You drive out any investor from Austria, you endanger jobs and destroy jobs with such a policy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr President, how much time do I have in total?
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e13383	The remaining time of your club is 11 minutes; You've got about 5 minutes left.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e13399	Thank you, Mr President. Now to a few detailed questions, about a higher taxation of the 13th and 14ths. Contents: We have today been told that the Liberal Forum is the 13th and 14th. I would like to ask you if you would like to have fully taxed your salary. As a result, a dementi was immediately released from the government bank, also from the ÖVP. But, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, you too are unbelievable. You've always said 13th and 14th. Reference should remain taboo. But what have you actually done? – In 1993, you abolished child benefit in this area and generally introduced a uniform tax rate of six percent. ==References== In January 1997, social security contributions from holiday and Christmas payments are no longer in the current context, but in the case of special payments, resulting in a significant deterioration. This costs the Austrian taxpayer about 3,000 s a year, and you now want to return it in the form of the "Edlinger-Hunderter". They take the left and – perhaps – return a part with the right. This too, Mr State Secretary, is an dishonest policy, a policy of deception! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Or – this has already been tailor-made – the taxation of the transfer of operations. It is true – and this is generally known – that in the next few years around one third of all small and medium-sized enterprises will change ownership: from father or mother to son or daughter. They know very well that the inheritance and gift tax essentially burdened the assets and there is a great danger that many successors will not be able to take over the holdings because they are not able to pay the appropriate inheritance and gift tax because it can be up to 60 percent of the value. In addition, there is a "Wonderful" broadcast by Mr Niederwieser, I think, of the SPÖ, who has also spoken on tax questions: He meant that it was a nonsense not to talk about the inheritance tax at all, because there was no entrepreneur waiting so long until he died and then surrendering his business. [[Abg. Grabner: You confuse him!]] Or it was Mr Gartlehner. It was definitely contained in socialist correspondence. - I can inform you: This is an inheritance and gift tax. The trader must also pay, namely, the gift tax, if he surrenders his business free of charge, not only if he dies. You should think about what you're talking about. We liberals demand – and this also calls for the Austrian People's Party – a tax exemption from the company's transfer. - Why don't we do it? We have the majority together. Companies owned by the transferor for at least seven years should be able to pass on tax-free and free of charge to the transferor. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This would secure businesses, save jobs and not destroy them. Ladies and gentlemen! All these proposals, the good proposals of the opposition addressed to the Minister of Finance, but also those of the ÖVP, which are partly quite good, are always described by Mr Finanzminister as a letter to the Christian Child. The cry after a reduction of the cold progression in wage and income tax is not a letter to the Christian Child. This is a cry for social justice, which is a prime means of preventing the impoverishment of small and medium-sized people. The cry for debureaucratisation in tax law is not...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e13440	The final sentence, please, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e13456	This is a question of the survival of thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises. Ladies and gentlemen! End the chaos in tax reform policy, and wait for the free proposal for a tax concept! They will be surprised at the positive position in it.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e13489	No one is reported in the word anymore. That concludes the debate. Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e13510	We are now holding a short debate, it concerns the request made by Mr Haigermoser, the Economic Committee for reporting on motion for a resolution 589/A (E) by Mr Prinzhorn and Mr Comrades on the discharge of Austrian training establishments and the promotion of teaching a period of time up to 17. ==References====External links== After the end of the debate, the vote on this request for a deadline will take place. We are going into the debate. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the following time limits shall apply: First speakers for reasons up to 10 minutes, each additional speaker maximum 5 minutes. Comments from members of the Federal Government or State Secretary should not last more than 10 minutes. The first speaker, Mr Haigermoser, has the floor to reason. 10 minutes maximum speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e13545	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! It was a urgent question which the House was just about to discuss. We liberals mean, just as urgent is the question of apprentices. Finally, on the part of our group, we have put forward numerous initiatives, devoted to the problem of apprenticeship training, to the skilled workers, and I believe that the appropriate proposals would be worth more than just put into the drawer by the government. On the other hand, the government parties have been in retrusions, have tried cosmetic operations and have remained in the question of apprentices in half the way, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In particular, the infamous climate guarantee offer last year has provided discussion. Today we have been shamefully silent at the Ballhausplatz, because this guarantee offer was a pipe-creper, because this year we again have dramatic figures, although we have found that the companies have made numerous training places available. But 8 900 apprentices are still on the street today, of which unfortunately are 5,400 girls. These figures are dramatic enough, and we therefore believe that a deadline request - problem-solving catalogue - is more than justified. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The black and red Mogel pack has not yet created a single apprenticeship training site. [[Objection to the ÖVP.]] So it is not with the thesis that the great coalition could solve the big problems! You're going to go home again and again. Mr. Kohl, your great model, or even Stoiber, says and proves something else to you. That is why you should also think in this direction, ladies and gentlemen. Again and again you are caught on fresh action, especially the ÖVP. As you have been murmuring again, I must once again nail you to your double-poverty policy and ask why you continue to fight the municipal tax in your Sunday speeches, but in this House you do not agree to the abolition of the municipal tax for apprentices. With great trara you have introduced the municipal tax, with zeter and mordio you have pityed it, she is unloved, she brings nothing except headache, but on the other hand you defend it with teeth and claws when it goes on. That is why we have today tabled a proposal for a time-limit, footing on the freedom of choice in relation to the discharge of Austrian training establishments and the attracting of teaching. We want results, High House, ladies and gentlemen, for apprentices, for skilled workers and for the business location of Austria, and not for bureaucrats and for the downcasters on the government bank. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The key elements of our proposals are as follows: an apprenticeship grant financed by the Federal Government for above-average benefits up to the amount of the costs for AHS students compared with more costs, the non-respect of the apprenticeship compensation in calculating the basis for the municipal tax, the Secretary-General, the introduction of the teaching in the form of a two-year training, an improved compulsory training of vocational education teachers, a general promotion of apprenticeship training abroad – particularly important, ladies and gentlemen! – the creation of the possibility for companies to apply for an increased investment exemption in the case of the acquisition of economic goods primarily for training purposes, and, last but not least, the equality of the master's examination with the B-Matura in the public service and the promotion of access to relevant higher education courses. – These are proposals that would cost little money, but would bring a boost towards apprenticeship training. Now a year has gone into the country since we made these applications. Ladies and gentlemen, you have taken your mouth full. Climate has set up the "red phone", but it has become quiet and quiet around this red phone. How is it going to happen when liberals sit in governments? Then move on quickly. Ms. Rossmann, well-known in this house, now councillor in Graz, has packed the bull with the horns and set up an apprentice impulse program for Graz. It has managed in Graz to give entrepreneurs new opportunities to train apprentices and to provide appropriate assistance. With this apprenticeship impulsive programme, it not only solves an election promise, but has responded very quickly to the needs and wishes of entrepreneurs, which ÖVP has failed for decades. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Maitz. You got the receipt at the elections in Graz. The voters gave you the Weisel. You've been put there where you belong, ladies and gentlemen. You, Mr Maitz, have been chased out of Styria as a clubman anyway, but this is not our problem because you have begun to sweat your economic activity in a newspaper. The liberal city councillor has shown you what is the matter by doing something for apprenticeship training. Ladies and gentlemen of the great coalition! Their failures are increasing. Even if you have introduced allowances, it does not alter the fact that no overall approach has been implemented in accordance with these expert proposals. It is clear, of course, that the debate on training places also needs to involve the dominant education system, and it is quite interesting what the Institute for Education Research of the Economy on 1st October 1989 has to do with it. In September 1998, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to exposure to dangerous substances. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Maitz.]] Mr President, if you think it is stupid what I am saying, I would recommend that you sign up to your Mrs Frieser's intelligence test. There you are, I think, the first candidate. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: And you don't even come there with this performance!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This Institute for Education Research of the Economy says: The downward trend in knowledge in mathematics, German, geography, economics continues. In 1991, on average, 70 percent of mathematical tasks were properly solved, and in the last two years of school, it was 10 percent less. Even in German, the proportion of correct answers is constantly falling, although not as strong as in mathematics. Knowledge in geography and economics was constant until the last school year, and these fell by 5 percent in the last year. This is the product of ÖVP/SPÖ education policy, ladies and gentlemen. These are the "services" – under quotations – of Mrs Gehrer, these are the "services" of the Federal Government as a whole. You can no longer even use your school system to give future apprentices the mastery of basic accounting methods. Therefore, there is, among other things, the difficulty of placing apprentices in full - time training places. But not only the trade or trade complains of these in many areas bad conditions, but also the industry writes to you in the main book – literally quoted –: In view of the long and laborious procedures, the Industrial Union calls for a reform of the vocational training bodies. The bureaucratic procedure by the Ministry of Economic Affairs just takes too long. So, too, the Minister of Economic Affairs is increasingly in demand. He has his difficulties in the matter of Lassing anyway, but he also does not carry out his own task because he works too bureaucraticly. It is absolutely necessary that the programme of freedom be implemented in the form of the motion for a resolution. I therefore urge you to meet these objectives and to vote with us. If you are wise, you are ready to join us until the end of the year in a package of apprentices, which really deserves this name, not to include cuckoo, but to give apprentices, at least for the next year, new opportunities to become active on a professional field, so that more than 9 000 apprentices can finally be accommodated in the small and medium-sized economy and also in the industry.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e13623	I call Mr Riepl. From now on, maximum time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e13645	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker, Mr Haigermoser, spoke of "returns of the government parties" as being "stopped half way". I believe that in the context of this short debate we should point out that, in the area of apprenticeship training and the necessary measures, we are far from the goal, but we are certainly not stuck in this respect, but have actually gone very well. The Liberals' motion for a resolution speaks of the discharge of Austrian training firms. He is, as you know, in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy's subcommittee, and I would therefore like to have the content of the Committee's discussion and not now from this speaker's point of view. A keyword is: discharge of holdings. I think it should be pointed out that in recent months many steps have been taken to ensure that apprenticeships are discharged and thus also to enable the economy to take up apprentices. I would remind you of the health insurance contribution paid to the teachers. I recall the discussions on the revision of the Child and Youth Employment Act with regard to the age limit, the time-limit for vocational schools, the weekly rest period. I recall the business's desire to introduce block teaching in vocational schools in certain sectors. We have partially approved this. But there are also small examples that have led to a corresponding discharge. We have finally made it possible for the teaching to be an alternative to auxiliary work from different points of view. We have introduced the apprenticeship allowance of 20 000 s. There was a regulation on many new teaching professions in the summer of this year – and I think that the time when the economy is working on these new teaching occupations is soon to come to an end and one should focus on the fact that there are many new opportunities now, because the effects are not as yet as we expected them to be. And finally, we have a grid that is an alternative to all those who do not receive a job in a farm. I think one should dare to look into the ranks of the economy. I speak very concretely Mr Drinkl, who will still be speaking on this issue today, would like to ask him why there are no clearer signals from the economy towards its own members. Mrs. Tichy-Schreder! We have achieved a lot objectively, including for businesses, and now – we pick it up, we try to catch up with those few hundred young people who are still looking for apprenticeships in this or that part of our country, without having to benefit from all the measures available to us. I am lacking the official and public awareness of the political will, this statement is missing from all, from the President of the Economic Chamber as well as from the Secretary-General. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Tichy Schreiter.]] I do not think so, and I think we should make another effort in this regard, if you want to, also together. It is important to me today to note that at the end of August this year we had 13 percent fewer job seekers than in 1997. It is important to note that we were able to register 17 724 vocational students in the first week of the vocational schools in Vienna, for example. That's 3 percent more than last year. So there is a trend change. It is also important to note that for thousands of young people we will offer foundations, apprenticeship projects, training places as an alternative to the workplace. For me, therefore, the justification for this proposal for a time limit has made it clear that: The liberals are not about the content of the discussion, but about the search for holes in the net for apprentices connected by the government parties. [[Abg. Haigermoser: No!]] That is my impression, Mr Haigermoser. Once again, they want to distract from their own holes in the broken financial network of the liberals. The Socialists will by no means agree with your request.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e13700	Mr Dr. Drinkl, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e13721	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I will not go into the Polish level of the first speaker, but I will make some comments on this proposal. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! For us from the Austrian People's Party, it has always been clear that only businesses create jobs that only successful firms can offer apprenticeships. In this discussion from the beginning, we started to ask why companies recruit apprentices and why businesses take back the offer of apprenticeships. Our policy was always aimed at addressing these arguments and removing those obstacles to apprenticeships. In recent years, we have been able to achieve very solid successes in an apprenticeship package 1 and an apprenticeship package 2 but also – Mr Haigermoser, I would ask you to take note of this at least – some of which I – we are still not satisfied with – have already mentioned: reducing the age of protection, prohibiting overtime, introducing more flexible working time models, financial incentives such as the elimination of health insurance contributions or accident insurance contributions on the employer's side or the 20 000-skilling allowance for apprenticeships. I would point out that, as a People's Party, we would have liked to take many more steps, but they were not yet possible at the time of the conclusion of the negotiations. I admit, however, that this has already surprised me. I listened with interest to the television broadcast "To the cause" in which Mr. Federal Chancellor Klima told the amazing audience that he had granted 50 000 S apprenticeship allowance, but he had to find majority voting for it. These majorities are, I believe, easy to find with the coalition partner. I am only afraid that he will have problems in his own group, at least with his own Finance Minister. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would also be pleased if we were finally to get the promised regulation on banned professions or banned establishments, which we were initially facing at the end of 1997, then at the middle of the year 1998 and, as I hear, now at the end of 1998. We need them to give the signal to the companies that they should be ready to hire more apprentices again. But I still believe that we have been successful. I agree with Mr Riepl in this regard: We were really successful! We've been able to reverse the trend. Now it is important to observe closely, to examine exactly how the situation develops further. Before the summer, we have created a network of shelters here – for which we are committed by the People's Party – which is intended to accommodate those apprentices who cannot find a place to teach. They are to be trained in a foundation or in a course. But I can't approve of misdevelopments. For example, the "Press" of Wednesday states that an employee of the Chamber of Labour, Mr. Baier, believes that the teaching is only the last chance to see and that apprentices' foundations and courses are almost the focus. Let us guard against that! The agreement was just reversed. I would ask you to take note of this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This attitude of the workers' chamber also bears fruit. With great concern, I read a press release of the ÖBB, the Austrian Federal Railways, a state-excellent teaching firm – this circumstance is recognized – in which it was a model to employ one third of his apprentices in an apprenticeship foundation, and in which it was thought that this path was also exemplary and appropriate for other entrepreneurs. We already know why the ÖBB wants to house a third of the apprentices in foundations. Because she wants to tap the NAP funds. But you should not set this as an example. There is caution, because otherwise all other thousands of teaching firms in Austria will try to go the same way, and then we are really on the wood road. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I come to the conclusion of my statement. The Austrian People's Party has always been a credible lawyer for the teaching companies, but also the apprentices in our country. We have always tried to make dual training more attractive. We have achieved a lot and we will continue this successful path. I am confident that the coalition partner will also accept the legitimate wishes of the economy. It is therefore not necessary to be pressured. We will also be able to reach a goal without this deadline.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e13788	Mr Dolinschek is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e13810	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It seems to us that this proposal for a time limit is extremely important, and I regret that the two government parties do not wish to agree to this deadline. Mr Riepl said from this speaker that the request was in any case before the Subcommittee of the Economic and Social Committee and was dealt with there. But he's not being treated there. ==References====External links== A subcommittee was set up on December last year, but this request has not yet been dealt with there, but is practically parked there, rubbed and, in principle, is condemned to mold up until the Sankt Nimerleinstag. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: Oh, yes!]] Of course, this is not the final conclusion of wisdom. If you do not continue on the question of apprentices, it would at least be useful to deal with a request for opposition in committee. In his remarks, Mr Drinkl said that the People's Party has always sought to remove obstacles that prevent businesses from recruiting apprentices. It will probably be so that you work on it, but you haven't done anything with it yet. This can be seen by looking at today's figures: At the end of August, in turn, a fall in the number of open apprenticeships was recorded, by 24 percent compared with the previous year. We have 2 721 courses available today. This is exactly 873 less than in the same period of the previous year. There are 8 872 young people seeking teaching. These trainees are mostly female today, that is, 5,353. In addition, there are still 3 519 guys who are looking for a place today, but don't get one. I have here an application from a girl from Upper Austria who wanted to learn about the office merchant. It sent me his application letter. Instead of the polytechnic course, it attended a class in the trade school and then applied for a teaching position as an office purchase woman at 80 companies. It has received a rejection from over 50 companies, and now it has not been sent to any addresses from the labour market for two months, where it can apply. According to the labour market service, there will hardly be any change in this situation in the near future. This girl is desperate, is desperated, and has hardly any hope of finding an apprenticeship. This should give us some thought, ladies and gentlemen. A class as an office merchant would have to be given. It is simply incomprehensible to me that there is no chance in this area today. 4 000 young people were unable to be taught in the previous year. However, they do not seem to appear in the statistics at all this time. Of course, they do not appear in unemployment statistics either because they have never been insured because they have not yet acquired insurance periods. This is the grey area in unemployment statistics. We also have these unemployed people. The number of young people without training places has thus not become smaller, but remains the same or has become even greater. The promise of our Federal Chancellor last year that every young person will receive a training place was – or if you want – simply could not be met. In the field of teaching, the Austrian Federal Government has so far done nothing in principle, except for announcements and alibiactions. With the keywords "Careers with Teaching", "Teachers' Package", "Teacher's Program" or "Teacher's offensive", measures were precipitated, which in reality did not exist. I must say to the comments of certain persons that the apprenticeship hotline would have been a success: This is a point of view, because if only 154 businesses and 600 apprentices participate in the whole of Austria, i.e. 17 businesses and 66 apprentices per state, I do not see success in this. This apprentice hotline has brought nothing but a wild growth in promotions. Winners were those who have waited for a long time and who have hired young people late in order to be able to obtain a promotion of up to 20,000 s per course. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] However, they have also achieved annoyed firms which have always trained apprentices and provided apprenticeships. These farms are now increasingly upset. And now, as Mr Drinkl rightly said earlier, the apprentices are being sent to foundations and other training facilities so that they do not have to pay for the training themselves. Of course, this creates a distortion of competition. In the public service, teaching facilities have been closed, and for the private sector, framework conditions have been created that increasingly reduce the interest in training apprentices. In my opinion, for the sake of statistics to be used in schools, so-called vocational schools, it is not a useful alternative, for, while an apprenticeship costs 8,000 s, a school course costs tenfold, namely 80 000 S. Totals are currently being invested in institutions that do not offer quality or professional opportunities. The Federal Government and the social partners have totally failed to deal with the apprenticeship problem and have responded to the change of time through new high-end technologies. The framework conditions for new careers...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e13842	The final sentence, please, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e13858	Of course, Mr President. I come to the conclusion. – The FPÖ has already applied for the activation of apprenticeships on 19 November. ==References== To date, however, he has not been treated. If you really want to attract the teaching, you will now agree to this deadline.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e13888	Mr Magistrate has also been mentioned in the debate. Peter. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e13909	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! There really is a subcommittee dealing with apprenticeship reform. In mid-June 1998, he was also a member of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. However, the German Government's apprenticeship package on this sub-committee and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has gone over to the Committee on Finance, which is very painful to the President of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. The fact remains, however, that there are applications there – 17 liberal applications, a free request that we are now talking about – which are partly one year or one and a half years old, and that the Federal Government and the coalition parties have preferred, instead of truly reforming the teaching from the ground, to establish a reception network on courses and foundations. In principle, I would like to congratulate you on this network and on the fact that you have accepted this question and that youth unemployment is falling in Austria. It's a performance you've done there. Ask, however, at what price You've done this performance. 4000 places are provided in courses and foundations this year, but for which you have to invest 900 million schilling alone in the school year 1998/99. So that's not 80 000 S, as Mr Dolinschek said, but more than 200 000 S per square. This is the most expensive form, the most expensive form in which you can combat youth unemployment due to lack of apprenticeships. Is it the right form? [[Abg. Wormitzer: Your bill is wrong!]] 900 million by 4,000 is 200 000. I've calculated that now. Mr Kopf, who can count very well, will be able to tell you right away, Mr Wurmitzer. What the hell is this about? – It offers the opportunity to do something in the short term. But I am already in front of the social partners and government groups for at least the fifth time, and I am again telling them that dual training is an essential part of secondary education. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] For many years, however, I have been telling you that dual training in that form, in which it has been successful for 40 or 50 years, has no real future. They will have to click on dual education to the secondary level. We finally have to get away from the Maturant Faith. I think the Matura is a very important level of training, but it is no more or no less valuable than good vocational training. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: That's it!]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the future, the focus must be on vocational training. We will have the labour shortage we will have in the future in the field of skilled workers. Therefore, the answer of the firms to the burden of teaching with many obstacles which I do not want to list now was that you have gradually withdrawn from apprenticeship training. Take note of this signal and do not believe that we can leave everything as it is! By 20 000 s of apprenticeship allowance or exemption from health insurance or from the municipal tax, the pressure can be eased a little, but the problem cannot really be solved. Let us, Madam President, take up this subcommittee again and, together with the Committee on Education, discuss the many requests to which will certainly be even better and even better, and let us finally decide on a real reform of teaching. Let us consider how the doctrine is still discriminated against against the AHS and the BHS today! We commit almost a crime when we send young people to the BHS, although we know that 40 percent of these young people fail in the BHS, just because they do not want to perceive the teaching that is still more or less a one-way road. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I agree, of course, with the deadline of the liberals because it is a step towards an apprenticeship reform. However, I would like to consider: With money alone, you can't pray for apprenticeships! 900 million schillings were spent only for 1998/99, so that 4,000 young people have at least one training place for one year. The intention is right, but what happens to them afterwards, where they then go, we do not know. They only move the problem to the next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e13970	Mr Oellinger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e13992	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It may already be, Mr Riepl, that the financial problems of freedom have been, it is certainly so, but that cannot be a reason – and this argument has been used – that we cannot discuss the demands made here. I too do not share many of these demands, or have they been partly met by government measures and by what was contained in the National Employment Action Plan. In addition to correct points, it also contains points which I consider to be fundamentally wrong, because I do not think they meet the apprenticeship problem in any way, such as the apprenticeship allowance or the abolition of health insurance. These are all measures – and in part this has even admitted to Mr Peter – that go in a completely wrong direction, because they have nothing to do with the fundamental problem of how we deal with apprenticeship training, in which direction they are reformed. It is precisely this which should be discussed in a committee dealing only with this issue. But there's no discussion about that. Of course, the request of the liberals – as well as all other applications – is available there. It was briefly overturned, and then we cut down individual points and briefly discussed, but discussed in the sense that what is contained in the individual points is faced with reality, with existing experience from other European countries, from comparable systems such as Germany and Switzerland, where there is a fierce discussion, many initiatives and a broad debate in the public about how to reform the teaching system, was not in the Committee. In Germany and Switzerland, the proposals are quite different. I cannot see that, for example, in Switzerland, that path is going on, which has been chosen in Austria. But it is not the one that is included in this request for freedom, but also in the measures proposed by the Government. There it is not said that the apprentice must be cheaper, but there it is believed that there must be a change in the teaching professions. There is the view that there is a need to change the structure of the training system in teaching, whether this is the trial training system, which is also discussed there, or whether there is a vocational training levy which is also discussed there. These are proposals that have been discussed. They do not, of course, stand in the way of this request, but they are not in any of the demands that have been met by the government in recent months. I therefore believe that it is important to continue to discuss in this Subcommittee, unless you want to continue the path which is obviously more and more preferred, namely the actual policy, the implementation of policies, outside the committees. Although the committees may still be able to talk about the problem of apprentices and that everyone agrees on this, there is no discussion and decision in the committees. But that's the real problem. Only two comments from the debates of recent weeks: On the one hand, it is not the case that the network you set up under the National Action Plan could solve the apprenticeship problem for this year – you all know that. This may still apply to those who are under new pressure on the apprenticeship market. However, you already forget all those who have remained from the previous year and who, even by means of the net and the measures in the catch network, hardly have any opportunities to actually enter because they are partially excluded. The other problem: It is openly discussed – for example in Salzburg – that there are groups within the new youth who are no longer suitable for a teaching. This is formulated by politics in this way. In fact, the alarm bells should ring, no matter what conclusions you draw from them. If official political documents – in this case a country – say that of 400 apprentices 70 are no longer suitable for teaching, then the first question is what to do with them, what to do with them, and, secondly, what this means for politics. Does it already say goodbye to the question of what future prospects these young people might have? In my opinion, to debate this would be necessary, both within the subcommittee and here, with the help of this request, although, as I have to say to the liberals, he is extremely contradictory and a collection of measures already implemented by the government. But we like to discuss it.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e14041	The text of the Rules of Procedure is exhausted. The debate is closed. We come to the vote on the request to report to the Economic Committee on Amendment No 589/A (E) by Mr Prinzhorn and Mr Comrades on the discharge of Austrian training establishments and the promotion of teaching for a period of up to 17 years. ==References====External links== In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. This request is therefore rejected. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e14077	We shall now resume the negotiations on points 2 to 5 of the agenda. We are continuing with the speech by Mr Dr Kier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e14102	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! In the context of the so-called democratic package, I should like to make two amendments: firstly, an amendment to the agenda item 3, which reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would also like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] For a brief explanation of both requests, I should first like to refer to the detailed contribution made by my club wife. However, I would like to make additional remarks to the blind and visually impaired persons. There is a similar text of the resolution before the House for a vote, but it aims to ensure that, under all circumstances, a law is created. – We believe that the Federal Minister for the Interior should be asked to take all appropriate steps first. If, on this occasion, it turns out that there is also a need for an amendment to the law, this would, of course, be part of these incentives. But the request submitted by the government parties prevents the implementation of other measures as long as there is no law. We believe that this is once again only an application that serves the flood of law and does not prevent it. That is why we are making our request. On the other hand, the amendment I have just made to the reading aims primarily at defining a completely clear number of popular desires. It corresponds to the scale according to quite a promill of the inhabitants of the federal territory, but the number 8,000 is clear, and we save ourselves by such a procedure the need to determine the current population on the date of a popular desire – on point, line and comma. The order of magnitude remained the same, transparency would be greater, and it would also be a contribution to administrative simplification, because in this case it would not be necessary to find x-fold more precisely the population, so that a people's desire can be legitimate. To reduce the electoral age to 16 years: This has been demanded so often that I am quite simply sure that it should be a majority. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e14184	The two applications just read have been properly submitted, are supported accordingly and are therefore under negotiation. Mr Magistrate has also been mentioned in the debate. Posch. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e14208	Mr President. High house! After the longer interruption, I repeat my main objections or arguments on the novel of the People's Desire Act or the Federal Presidential Election Act. I would like to begin by referring to the 1973 People's Desire Act, which I fully support, because it brings a number of reasonable changes, such as the reduction of the number of signatures necessary for the introduction of a popular desire. The old scheme provided for 10 000 declarations of support. One has now reduced this to a promenade of the residential population, i.e. about 8 100. It is by no means – as honourable Member Stadler says – the case that it was about the undermine of the Austrian right to vote in favour of foreigners or the introduction of the foreign election right through the back door, but it is a reasonable compromise and facilitates the submission essential. I believe that the removal of the privilege of the signature of Members is reasonable in this case. So far, eight Members' signatures have been necessary. That is to say, the old system was essentially in contradiction with the instrument of popular desire, because popular desire is a matter of the people and not of the Members. It is therefore reprehensible that Members, i.e. the legislative, should be able to introduce a popular desire to themselves with their own signatures. I also think the rules on the cost contribution are reasonable and justified because they facilitate non-organized and small initiatives to introduce a popular desire. They should also have the possibility of introduction and not fail in a financial obstacle. The rules that have been introduced by the disabled have already been fully appreciated by a number of my previous speakers, such as Mrs Rauch-Kallat and Mr Karlsson. According to technical progress, this is also an essential improvement. Overall, the novelle to the People's Desire Act 1973 is a relatively positive development of democracy policy. In my opinion, the novelle to the Federal Presidential Election Act 1971 also brings a number of reasonable changes, for example the facilitation of the electoral testimonies abroad. The reduction of the period between the first and second elections from five weeks to three weeks, and therefore the reduction of the campaign, I think, is a very positive measure. All in all, there are a number of positive measures in this novel. The most important change, however, is § 7 para. 1. In introducing the Federal President's direct election after the war, the parties were to have the right of nomination for a candidate for the Federal President's election from a force of five national councillors or 6,000 citizens' signatures. However, a Member for 25 000 signatures was included in the voting paper. Furthermore, a Member of Parliament was able to nominate several candidates, which the citizens could not do with an officially certified signature. They could only give their signature to one candidate, and that was certainly a very, very contradictory arrangement. In that respect, I think it is reasonable that the privileges of Members' signatures are missing in this novel. However, I would have liked to see it better if at least the House's right of proposal had remained because a representative democracy corresponds to the value of a Member's vote, and I do not want to support this populism. For example, the statement of the President of the Federal Republic – I quote literally – testifies: Under the President-in-Office of the Council, I understand that I have refused to be nominated by the parties. I believe that there is a remarkable understanding of democracy and parties, and sometimes of slight oblivion. For a Federal President, who was proposed by a party in the first round of the elections, will not become an independent President over the parties, who will be proposed by 6,000 supporters, but will thereby become an objective and over-the-party Federal President to acquire intellectual independence and integrity. And this does not happen by lowering parties to beautify themselves. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] That is why I would have liked to see it in this case if the old regulation had remained, according to which Members should also propose a candidate with their vote, or could, because this is not contrary to representative democracy. This would have been good for democracy as a whole, for the understanding of democracy and also for our President-in-Office. – In this sense, thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e14264	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Stoisits. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e14285	Dobar večer, poštovane lady i gospodo! Mr. State Secretary! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The changes in various laws that the coalition likes to adorn with the positive title "Democracy Package" is an extremely small package. [[Abg. Swimmlein: Make the greatest joy at times!]] It's such a small package that if you put it on the mail, you could give it up as a letter – this package is so small. Nevertheless, it involves things – which are still for discussion and soon to be voted – which I think are remarkable and very positive in that they are a further development of our concept of democracy. The main points of the change are undoubtedly the popular desire law, which is amended. The initiative, ladies and gentlemen, was not due to the great affection of the coalition parties for the instrument "popular desires", but rather the initiative was created mainly because of very successful popular desire and the wishes of the people's operators, who have seen serious shortcomings both in the legal foundations but only in the political implementation of these popular desires. I'm just saying words: Genocine folk desires – 1.4 million signers, animal protection people’s desires – 450 000 signers – and women’s people’s desire with over 600,000 signatures from citizens who have identified themselves with these demands. And these shortcomings with regard to the legal bases are the ones that have now also led to a reform. But, ladies and gentlemen, it is not much of what the "Initiative Direct Democracy", as the merger of operators of these successful popular desires has called itself, has called for as core points, and it has presented its demands to all parties. What they presented to the political parties represented in the National Council, they called "package". I would like to remind you once again of the key points of the "Initiative Direct Democracy" package. It was felt that many Members, even those members of the Constitutional Committee, did not know so well what the demands were. I don't even want to put that before you. You don't have to know all the details. I also do not want to focus my main criticism points on the procedure in the treatment of this "democracy package". On the last day of the run-out session – I don't have it present, I think it was really the 17. July, i.e. the last possible day – the Coalition's own-initiative proposal has been submitted. And on the first day of the new session, 15th. It has already been decided on by the Constitutional Committee on September. The fact that Parliament is working quickly is by no means a negative thing, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Otherwise it is always too slow for you! Once we're fast, and you're not right either! You can't make it right for the Greens!]] It is always, Dr. Khol, also a question of the result that the quick work brings with it, because in the speed – and I am of type a person who tends to do so – one likes to hide, forgets essential things, sometimes focuses on insignificant. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Very self-critical! Very clear!]] That is the same as what is now in place for the decision-making process. It's a little fast-hudded, and you still like the word "hudded there", because, ladies and gentlemen, essentially, a few points – Mr Posch has already said in his speech – are characterized by an incredible populism. This is already evidenced by the fact that regulations are now being made at a really "affen-like" speed, which can only be carried out in six years at the earliest, because the last Federal President's election was known in this spring and the next one will only be in six years – so God will receive the health of our current Federal President. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] But you've had it crazyly fast. The opposition has passed away in such a way that it calls for the questions that Dr. Khol and Dr. Kostelka, as proposals in their own initiative proposal in Parliament, to be dealt with, and what the opposition is thinking and would have liked to discuss, perhaps to be involved. But in this Parliament, especially in the Constitutional Committee, one has every interest, but only not that of perhaps dealing with opposition proposals. Ladies and gentlemen! One could not even have made a request as soon as possible. They made the initiative proposal at the last second in July, and in the first second of the new session has already been discussed. I seriously wonder when I would have had the opportunity to put my thoughts on your things at all and bring them in – provided that you have a serious interest in dealing with them! It would not have been possible from the time frame and from the circumstances. But, well, lamenting doesn't help us now. The coalition, as long as it still has the two-thirds majority, goes over everything that is possible. This popular desire law is for me a very good example, I do not want to say the very best example. And now I'm coming back to... [[Abg. Arbitrators: This is a law with a simple majority, for which I do not need a two-thirds majority to drive!]] I have not said that in this case the two-thirds majority will be passed over, but the consciousness of the coalition to have a two-thirds majority will be influenced by the procedure. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Yes, you said that!]] I'll be back to IDD. What does the "Initiative Direct Democracy" want? – It wants party independence of popular desire and facilitation in the initiation and implementation of the same. The party independence of popular desires is implemented. This is a demand that the Greens have long before, even before Khol and Kostelka have come up with the idea of formulating an initiative proposal. So – one alone could never do so, eight Members in the past as well – no longer initiate popular desires and thus bring them to the National Council. This is absolutely all right and covers both with my concept of democracy and with that of Dr. Khol. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Then you don't need a subcommittee if your own demand is being implemented! The same inconsistency as the Liberals!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! But it is not a great deal to cover the concept of democracy, because those who have demanded it and have experience with party-independent popular desires have, of course, demanded that there be reliefs in the introduction of a popular desire. Because if one has saved this effort in the past – in order to express it this way – then this usually happened either for technical or financial reasons, but not because in some way one would have doubted the success of popular desires. I just remember the example of animal welfare people's desires. None of these popular desires were signed or contributed by the coalition parties. There were mixed forms, but never this variant. What are the people's desires? – They want – that would also be in the sense of democracy – a halve of the number of support signatures needed to initiate a popular desire. What is half of 10,000? - 5,000. Ladies and gentlemen! What number did the coalition agree on? - On 8 100. This is far from compromise with the original demands. 8 100! This is the concept of democracy, which is linked to this. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Arbitrators: Where is halving more democracy? Where is it written that halving means more democracy? Perhaps 8.1 are more democracy!]] No, it is never written that it is. It simply means – or it just meant – that it will not be the case – that those groups that have neither the financial resources nor the devices of large organizational structures have the opportunity at all to introduce a popular desire. Mr Schieder! That does not mean that this is the popular desire campaign. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Everyone knows that! Everyone knows! You'll learn in folk school!]] That does not mean bringing hundreds of thousands or at least 100,000 to the constituency. After all, 10,000 people have to go to their local office and so to speak, face to face to face, sign a popular desire, perhaps one of which – in order to formulate it so – is to compete in content, although still so small a group. This has been a question of encouragement for many people in the past and will remain in the future. They don't make it easier! This instrument is not intended to make people more needy, but to continue to have this trick of possible intimidation. That is the consequence, and that is why I say that it is a step in the right direction, but in fact two steps back. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The next point is to understand and take citizens seriously on the part of the coalition parties: I would just like to strip the second point, the reduction of the age limit for voting rights. This demand has not been discussed anywhere, it has not even been ignored, although it would be essential for democracy. For I ask myself this on the occasion of every choice, but in popular desire I ask myself this all the more clearly: Does genetic engineering, equal opportunities and animal welfare not matter at all 16 to 18 years of age? It's obvious. Her opinion is that this is not a matter of expressing will and opinion. This is, however, only a small subpoint. A much more essential point is that the people's desire to do this – I am now putting it into a very popular – democracy-political match against political parties – and if the parties were to implement the demands of the various groups, the instrument of popular desire would not be as necessary – would want to have a few equal opportunities, and equal opportunities also mean money. That is why the wise people of this initiative have said: We are beyond the demand that a vote in elections should be as valuable as a signature in popular desire. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Each party, including the Greens, shall receive about 22 s of electoral reimbursement for each vote given at the National Council election. In this way, citizens pay in such a way that they can vote for a party and that there is a political contest, an amount of 22 p. I stand for it. You could discuss the height. But to you, the fact that people can also articulate themselves by popular desire is worth nothing at all, worth nothing. The "Initiative Direct Democracy" has proposed – pragmatically, realistically and with both legs standing on the ground, as these people are now – that the operators of a popular desire for each signature done should receive an amount of 2 S – 2 S, not 20 S! That would be a lower limit of 200 000 s for popular desire, because 100,000 signatures are needed to make it a successful popular desire at all. With an amount of 2 s per signature, that would be 200 000 S. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. In view of hundreds of millions of schillings, which are distributed annually to candidate parties in the form of party funding, political academies, electoral costs reimbursement, club financing and the like, I am also beneficial, add, this is such a small sum that it would not even be worth mentioning. But it is obvious that in these questions – as in so many others in recent times – ideology is transported. Clearly, there is fear that citizens will articulate their concerns. Whether they succeed in political implementation is another question anyway, because the National Council does what it wants anyway. Clearly, the fear of being faced with the will or with the articulation of a will is so great that there is not even support of 200 000 s for popular desires. That would be nothing but some kind of postage replacement anyway. Ladies and gentlemen! A significant number of comparisons to illustrate the relationships, which means this amount of 200 000 S: It corresponds to the amount to be paid by the taxpayer for each popular desire. Every popular desire in Austria – regardless of whether it is signed by 1.4 million, 100,000 or perhaps only 60,000 people, such as those of the motorcyclists at the time – costs 25 million schilling. 25 million schilling – these are fixed costs, ladies and gentlemen! Quick costs! I wonder, What are 200 000 S or what would be 150 000 S? - Nothing! I would like to explain to those Members who are not present in the indignant four-eye circle of Khol/Kostelka, once again what the demands of those who want to take account of what such initiatives call for in some way. That's what I told you to think. But we are not yet at the end of this discussion. It is also not every day evening nor the end of this day. It would be possible. I don't want to make any international comparisons now, because then I could give a whole lecture. Indeed, we know how in other countries the instruments of direct democracy are regulated, the financial support they receive and the importance they have as a whole. Switzerland should not be tried, so to speak, as it is classic in this respect, where citizens can also articulate their concerns in a different way than to go to the election every four years. It is not Switzerland that should try, but many other EU countries that are much more exemplary on this issue. Ladies and gentlemen! My speaking time is not unlimited either. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's a comforting word!]] That is why one word on other laws, such as the European electoral system, has been said. It's going to be fast, 17th. ==References== September, the European electoral order is amended in a sense which is not unsympathetic at all. In fact, it brings through relief and debureaucratisation, for it only needs a witness and more. But no one comes up with the idea of removing certain absurdities from the electoral order. What I would have liked to discuss is the 4-percent clause in the right to vote in Europe, that a party must have, as it were, 4 percent. This is copied from the National Council election order. But with 4 percent, there is never a mandate because there are only 21 European Parliamentarians. Thus, you are the legal authority or, in some way, the quality of the law Wurst. It only has to be fast, fast, when it comes to implementing a populist announcement, which was perhaps made two months ago. This is only a small example of how "ordinary", like "clean" and how "good" is worked here. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! On the issue of the abolition of the possibility that a party will nominate a candidate in the Federal Presidential elections in the future: In my opinion, this seems to be completely neutral in the first place. At the first moment, I have neither sympathy nor antipathy for this, but after a short period of thought, I have concerns that I consider extremely serious. Ladies and gentlemen! We live – thank God! – in a representative democracy. We live in a state in which parliamentarianism at least has a high priority on the paper. We live in a state that has great advantages over other systems, which also includes parties and thus has a quality that can be seen. We live in a state that is not a presidential democracy. But with such small changes as this one – that the parties are actually moving more and more away from the President of the Federal Republic – the National Council, in the form of the political parties, is again going to take part in a piece of its possibilities and values. With such small things, this system is systematically undermined! I do not say in any way that this happens deliberately, consciously or in arrears, no, but simply so, because Kletyl with the packs, with its 50,000 red-and-white meshes once a gag succeeded, because nothing else was that. Now we have to put this in the law for all times. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This does not represent a mature and enriched democracy for me, but it shows the way in which this Parliament and the way in which this Constitutional Committee work. I believe the main evil lies in the fact that, of course, the chairman of this Constitutional Committee is the greatest party and the vice-president of the clubman is the second largest party. They're in there in a two-thirds pack, and there's what you want. Mrs Schmidt is right with all her objections. I can't repeat it now because my time's over. May. At this point, I would like to thank Posch for his courage to express this. In my opinion, he will be the only one of the SPÖ's major political groups who expressed these concerns in history, hopefully positive and not negative.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e14439	Mr Donabauer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e14460	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! We are dealing with the democratic package today, and in view of the points to be discussed on the agenda and the number of speakers reported, I would like to refer only in a few brief comments to these amendments to which we will give our approval. First of all: Mrs Stoisits, I admire your present suffering. In the Constitutional Committee I have You have experienced that, in fact, you agreed with a lot of things. They have hardly reported as committed to speech, at least not with as much pain as they do now. I may ask you: Consider also the overall context! [[Abg. Wabl: You're used to so much! You're so damn used to it! In the presidency, I was allowed to listen to Mr. Khol's greetings!]] You weren't there, Mr. Wabl. You only give your comment on everything, even if you weren't there. I was there, and that's why I can say what was going on or what was spoken. Take a clear look at the following: This amendment first facilitates the voting. The vote abroad may be carried out by a person with confirmation. Today, two people are needed. In my opinion, this is a democratic progress that we can endorse. In the future, we will also have to take precautions when voting both in the National Council electoral order and in the European electoral system. This is a progress that can be seen. To the next point: This is about the new regulation of the time-limit for consultation. I think that's good and important. These deadlines have been shortened from ten days to one week, when the conditions of § 26 – namely the public procurement – are met. These are things that I think we should talk about and which are also very reasonable. Now to the individual areas. The Federal President's election therefore required action because we had a strange experience at the last election. On the basis of the fact that the signature of five parliamentarians is sufficient to support an election proposal, the situation also arose that parliamentarians did not know exactly where to go. So they were more or less in a huge conflict situation. In order to avoid this in the future, I believe that we have taken a clear approach with this proposal, namely – I do not understand why you are constantly talking about disfellowshipping the parties – that 6 000 eligible persons with their support are making every proposal – every proposal! - can bring in. [[Abg. Wabl: No problem for you!]] Mr. Wabl! If you read this carefully, you can also read that in the future, the declarations of support – which have not been the case so far – are required to be available to the local authorities and the local authorities by law to assist in doing so. I personally see an improvement in the situation. But above all, we have avoided some getting into a conflict situation by thinking about whom they prefer to give their consent: one or two candidates. You know what I'm insisting on anyway. To the next point, to popular desires: I do not understand what you think is so bad that a promulgate of the population as a whole - quite clearly normed - can introduce a popular desire. I believe that in this way we have set a standard that this is really to be a serious and honest concern and that not every emotion is already a source of popular desire. To your objection why the 16 to 18-year-olds are excluded from the possibility of signing a popular desire. I would rather encourage you to: Let us make sure that all those who have the right to vote are involved. It is worth much, much more, if we are trying in this direction! They also have the opportunity to engage. As far as your concerns about financial resources are concerned, it would be as follows: For the first time, you have regulated the cooperation of the communities very clearly also in the law, and secondly, you have set the amount of 150 000 S in the law with a dynamization clause. In my opinion, this can clearly be described as essential progress. I would like to refer to three things which are not standardised in this bill, namely, first of all, the classification of the electoral cost by the number of voters. There are very suitable solutions in the countries where national legislation is concerned. In my opinion, the cost-replacement scheme is a huge effort according to today's settlement arrangements. If we were to adapt this to national legislation, the situation would be more favourable, and we could do a little more to the municipalities in particular. Secondly, In many communities we have a real problem with the members of the Electoral Commission. In fact, 247 S per day is paid today. I ask you: How many more people are making themselves available for this amount on a Sunday? It would therefore be appropriate to find a new standard with regard to the replacement of the expenses compensation for members of the Electoral Commission. We have also discussed this in the Constitutional Committee. Thirdly and last point: When we vote in the European elections, it is true that we must comply with the requirements of the European Union. This means that the counting can usually begin only after the last polling room has closed. It's usually late in the evening. – Mr State Secretary! We would suggest that, at the next meeting or at the next opportunity, consideration should be given to whether the counting of the votes – but not the announcement of the results – can not begin in the individual countries if, as our National Council electoral order provides, the final electoral venue has been closed. I think it unbearable that Members of the Electoral Commission must sit and wait for five or six hours for the already mentioned amount of 247 s until the so-called standard time is fulfilled and only then be allowed to start counting. In my opinion, this would be a requirement for the government, for you, for the Minister of the Interior, to think about it and find a suitable solution across Europe. We agree with the democratic package and believe that we have made progress to respond to the changes of time with a corresponding adjustment.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e14509	Mr Smolle is now on the floor. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e14530	Gospod predsednik! Visoki Dom! Dear friends! Mr President. Because of the late hour, I might just want to focus on two priorities of these so-called novels. [[Abg. Grabner: That's what the other one said at first, and then he spoke for 10 minutes!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I feel the fear of the citizen at both the ÖVP and the SPÖ. [[Call the ÖVP:No, no!]] I do not understand why we are not able to facilitate access to popular desires, access to elections for citizens. I do not see why it should not be possible for a decent citizen to make his signature at home or wherever. You don't have any confidence in the citizen here, and you prove that with this novelle. You actually want to cement the power as you have it today. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Wabl.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You would have had the opportunity to at least give a good sign in the Committee if you had the courage to instruct the Government, according to a resolution of the Liberal Forum, to call into question the electoral order in Carinthia. We still have a 10 per cent obstacle in the country elections, far above the Austrian average, far above the necessary quota for national elections. This could have marked you, because in this novel, it is only a matter of keeping citizens away from citizens' initiatives or popular desires as well as from elections that make it difficult for him to participate in democracy. Ladies and gentlemen! They have brought about one thing: The ordinary citizen is associated with a package of gifts, something you get so to speak. You've done it not only to string a package in which you haven't entered anything but also to take things away. I must say, Mr Khol, there were more beautiful times, there were times when you supported petitions, for example also the petition of the People's Group Centre, so that the groups can participate more directly in elections. – This is, as it were, a sad example of a person not improving, despite the fact that he is getting older, but rather getting worse in his own way. Ladies and gentlemen! I think it would be necessary not to talk about a democratic package in this matter, but about an empty cover, consisting of an attempt to spread sand back into the eyes of the citizen. It is not about democracy, it is about the power of the government parties.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e14585	Mr Murauer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e14607	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Mr Smolle, I cannot, of course, take all the fears of you. But I can take a fear of you, that the ÖVP would be afraid of the voters. The opposite is the case: The ÖVP has the hand on the pulse of voters and Austrians. Well, I can take this worry from you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! On today's democratic package, it is essentially already mentioned that, in addition to the Federal President's Election Act, a change in the area of popular desire and a new regulation on time-limits for consultation in the future, there will also be reliefs in the issue of voting. That is, the vote abroad does not require two witnesses, but only one. I think that this is an essential step, in addition to many, many other positions, in order not to get into the suspicion that I see only this one position, as Mr Wabl may say here. [[Abg. Wabl: A very essential!]] One essential point also concerns the disabled, namely that in the future, if technically possible, barrier-free access to constituencies should be ensured and control systems built for the blind and the visually impaired. On this point, I would like to make the following request from the ÖVP: [[Quoted print version removed]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would now like to come back to facilitate the voting. The need to meet the need to adapt and facilitate the electoral behaviour of new social circumstances has far from been taken into account. In the countries, especially in Upper Austria – here is the head of state Dr. Pühringer has given a massive public response, and there is also a joint decision by all parties in the Upper Austrian Landtag – a simplification, a further development, a democratisation of the right to vote is required. Unfortunately, God did not allow us to achieve this relief for voters. I am sorry that the Socialist Party did not recognize this in advance and opposed it and is not prepared to take this into account. The Austrian People's Party will continue to pursue this goal of creating a modern electoral right for our fellow citizens. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A few facts on this issue: We know that society has become more mobile, that we are moving more at home and abroad, that we are on a lot of trips either professionally or in leisure time, and that the exclusion from elections can go so far that a citizen who is in the hospital cannot exercise his right to vote. Secondly, the communities have been calling for simplification and debureaucratisation for years, and thirdly, it is possible – and this is something special – to choose by letter in the election of workers' chambers and works councils. It is therefore a matter of course here, but in other elections it is not allowed to do so. I would like to show the two-fifths at the Austrians' maturity with democracy the example of the right to vote for Austrians abroad. There have been no abuses so far, there have been no manipulations, there has been no distortion of the results of the elections, ladies and gentlemen. Next year, 1999, there will be a number of elections – we are talking about a super-election year. It would be to introduce a letter election alone in the sense of voting participation. Ladies and gentlemen! I am convinced that we will still bring the coalition partner into line with this more mobile electoral behaviour. We know that in Germany voters can vote a few weeks before the election by means of an affidavit. We know that in Switzerland the election of letters goes so far that over 60 years of age that bedridden fellow citizens have a permanent choice of letters that in the UK even a vote can be made by a member of the family and in Australia participation in the election is possible by fax. Ladies and gentlemen! Are the Austrians so immature in democracy? – I claim: No, no, no, [[Abg. Wabl: Bravo!]] And that's why it's time to decide on a new right to vote. [[Abg. Wabl: Keep going!]] I come to the conclusion. I am convinced that the Austrians do not want a legal or constitutional scepticism, but rather a practical, simple, contemporary electoral right, and this is the concern of the Austrian People's Party. It is high time for this further democratization.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e14715	The amendment just read is properly submitted, duly supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Wabl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e14739	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Mr. Klubobmann Khol! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Yes!]] Democracy à la ÖVP has been given a new facet, and we have already experienced a foretaste in this presidential election, when our great Thommy Klestil, the President of the European Parliament, regardless of the parties, has tried to sign the simple, decent, hard-working citizen. Thomas Kle Stil has been in front of the cameras and said: Please, dear citizens, I do not want to be dependent on the parties anymore. No, I don't want to. The ÖVP, it's not quite correct. I do not want to be there anymore, of which I do not want to be set up anymore. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: He didn't say! He didn't say that!]] No, of the people themselves, ladies and gentlemen! – And then came the request to the great heart of the black mayors in the country, who then told every citizen who happened to come to the local office: Ah! Say hello to God! Servus, Huber! Don't you want to support our Thommy too? Go, sign up right now! Then the "beautiful" statements of support – 60,000 or more in number – were sent to Vienna, with a red mascherl. – This is the new democracy! The ÖVP has invented the new citizen! This is the democratic package à la Khol and other constitutional archers and bastlers. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I know, since 1945, that the ÖVP has been fighting for this incredible privilege of a people's representative who has been elected to this House with ridiculous 25,000 votes, to determine who is the candidate for the presidency of his party. We must fight against this privilege, supported by all important media – large format, small format – because democracy is in danger! Mrs Schmidt was even talking about the strands: She's supported two candidates! [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer:... has excited itself about it!]] A crime! A hallucination of democracy! The Pinge in Parliament has collapsed, the democratic substance water has run out, for Mrs Schmidt has misused an instrument: Your signature! – You haven't bothered this for decades, Mr. Khol. Now you've suddenly discovered: Oh, disaster! People's desires! Ladies and gentlemen! At first sight, that doesn't look so stupid, because popular desire is called popular desire, what has a people's representative lost? Pui, peacock, peacock! People's desire was well supported by people's representatives! That's incredible! That's all over now! We make popular desires much more elegant. We send a newsletter to our ÖVP mayors: Dear ÖVP Mayor! On the same and so many occasions in December you get the wonderful support forms. These are imposed in your communities, and each time party traffic is, the great heart of the mayor invites its citizens to sign a real, democratic, black, cold-black popular desire. – This is democracy! That's where the heart of a chole laughs! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] Do you know what the evil guy is? [[Call:Nothing at all]] [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: Kasperl!]] The evil thing about it is this:... Yes, stop, you ping democrats! [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: Kasperl! Kasperl!]] [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: Kasperl, stupid!]] There is democracy under the control of Parliament with your policy! You don't need a Farnleitner anymore and others. [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: Wurstel!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Her practice of democracy looks like this: In Parliament, the representative of a small opposition party or a larger opposition party has an incredible number of rights. He is elected with 25,000 votes, then he comes into this house, is diligent – especially in the first months and years, because he wants to show what he can – writes requests, and then these exhausted professionals sit in the committees, like swimmers, khol and others, and say: Are the opposition A applications already mature like a Parma ham? Do they have their six months on the bumple? [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: So good is your Parma ham?]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. May. Posch.]] Can we take her out? Do they have mold yet? We can then put them on the agenda briefly, so that they can then be lowered in a subcommittee. – This is the honourable Member’s right in this House. Then an oppositional MP in his helplessness, in his powerlessness, comes to the idea that he wants to initiate a popular desire because he thinks he will get ally to the people. Oh, there comes again the great Democrat Khol and says: No, no, that's a privilege, please! With the people? No, no! The privileged people's representative should not interfere there. He can't be there, and not even with his weight as a people's representative. No, no, no, Only the ÖVP mayors and the ÖVP functionaries and the Thommy – they can all be there. But the oppositional people's representatives should only try to get out of here, and his applications can be dropped into the drawers. In the Presidential we then sit comfortably together – that is always so hearty –: President Neisser and President Brauneder and Mr Stadler and Mr Khol and Mr Kostelka and our President Fischer. [[Abg. Dr. Neisser: There's nothing good here at all!]] We sit there and advise. And then: Is he already mature? Is he allowed to enter the committee? And then: No, he can stay for three months. - That's how we stop! Ladies and gentlemen, you understand this in democracy! There are, however, as strange Members as Mr Wabl, who thinks: Well, the opposition bank is a hard bank, but at least we can do something about control. Perhaps we can look into the committees! – But there comes again Mr. Khol and says: As long as this opposition abuses this investigation committee as a feme dish, as a tribunal, no, so long – be ÖVP and Thomas in front of it! – we will not allow anything ever to be examined. Ladies and gentlemen! You are playing with the democratic fire, but on the very wrong side, and you are surprised when some of the Members of this House are freaking out, be it on the blue side or elsewhere. [[Abg. May. Stadler: With the Greens above all!]] It's supposed to happen with us, too. It's obviously too boisterous to say: It's going to Brazil! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: But he is original!]] Mr. Kohl! But I'd ask you: If you are talking about a democratic package, you should include very simple things in it. If, for example, a simple citizen or a simple citizen is allowed and wants to take part in a municipal council election, then he can go from house to house and get a signature there. In order to confirm that this person is included in the electorate, there is a stamp on it at the municipal office, and then that is true. - No! They don't want this for popular desire! That would be too complicated! No, everyone has to go and sign there so that it is really democratic. – You have so many possibilities – so many opportunities! - but no: They do populist politics in the short term and sell it as democracy. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! To that popular desire that you, Mr. Khol, or your party, once supported with great elan – UN-City, I believe – the head of government said at the time: What's this about me? The majority have not signed! – At the time, you have experienced what direct democracy is. What have people experienced in genetic engineering people's desire? – 1.4 million? They have shown what can be done from it: a small paper skipper, into the lake of great, wide democracy. It swims there and moves there. And if you really can't get out anymore, you say, They have dictated us in Brussels! We can't! It's already allowed to do everything there. How can we resist, we poor, small Austria with 8 million people? The women's desire has signed 600 000 people. What to do You here in this house? This is the problem in democracy that these concerns are not taken seriously. It is not a question of whether you are inventing any things, and of having to change 10,000 to 8,000. Believe me, this is completely indifferent, you can also raise! But let democracy be allowed by giving the simple citizen, the simple citizen, the same confidence as with any other treaty, namely that they need something to sign and that is accepted as valid, unless it is proved at some point that it was a fake – but that is in any case subject to the criminal laws. - No! You are afraid that the popular desires... – Thank you, Mr Smolle! [[Congratulation of the Abg. Smolle]] They are still in the good tradition of the democratic ideas of the Greens! [[Cheerfulness with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Mr. Khol! I appreciate you as a buffed, refined power politician, but please stop with these childhood games – talking about packages and so on – and do not exaggerate it! [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: That's what you're asking yourself, Mr. Wabl!]] Mr. Swimper! It is true that the "exhibition" of a people's representative is talking about democracy. You know, I would start to doubt in your place of democracy, and I would actually think about how far our democracy has come. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kukacka.]] Mr. Kukacka! You also fit into this category. You know, people like you, who have been sitting in all governments since 1945 in this country – full, satisfied... [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Be careful with your qualifications!]] – You didn’t, you were always on the noodle soup or on the 0.8-promille soup, in which you are always swimming well. Please, do not exaggerate it with the aggravation of those who are still trying to achieve democracy in this country. Of course: Oppositioners need to fight more about it, you don't need it that way. You always get the information directly. But don't exaggerate it, Mr. Khol! That's my request.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e15009	No further words are available. This concludes the debate on this part of the agenda. The rapporteur's wish for a conclusion is not available to me. We therefore come to the votes which, as always, are carried out separately on each committee's proposals. First of all, we come to the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the Federal Presidential Election Act 1971, including the title and receipt in 1394 of the Supplements. Hiezu is an amendment tabled by Dr Kostelka, Dr. Khol and comrades regarding paragraph 9 of Section 10 para. 4 vor. There is only one amendment. I shall therefore vote on the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report, taking account of this amendment to Kostelka/Khol. This draft shall contain provisions in accordance with Article 26(1). 6 Federal Constitutional Act, i.e. the presence of at least half of the Members is required, and the decision must be taken by a majority of two thirds of the votes cast. I shall first establish the necessary quota and now vote on the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report, taking into account the amendment tabled by Kostelka/Khol. In case of consent, I ask for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority of two-thirds. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to the proposal at third reading too, to give a sign. . I note that the proposal was also decided at third reading with the necessary two-thirds majority. Next, we vote on the draft federal law, which amends the People's Desire Act 1973, together with the title and receipt in 1395 of the Supplements. Mr Hiezu has tabled an amendment by Mr Haidlmayr and Mr Comrades. Mr Schmidt and Mr Comrades have also tabled an amendment or amendment. Mr Kostelka, Mr Khol and Mr Comrades also tabled an amendment, as did Mr Rauch-Kallat, Mr Kostelka and Mr Comrades. First of all, I will vote on the parts concerned by the above-mentioned applications – in succession – and then on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Dr. Schmidt and comrades have an amendment concerning Article I(1), Section 3, para. 2 introduced. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this motion for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. We vote on the same provision, Article I, paragraph 1(3). 2 as amended by the Committee's report. In the event of approval, I would ask for an important sign in this regard. - That's the majority. Accepted. The Members of Parliament, Dr Kostelka, Dr. Khol and Comrades have tabled an amendment concerning Article I(3). I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to be a sign of approval. I note that this amendment was also adopted by a majority. In addition, Members Dr Schmidt and Comrades have tabled an additional proposal concerning the insertion of a new point 7a in Article I. In the event of approval, I may ask you to give a sign on this matter. . I note that this supplementary proposal remains in the minority. Mr Haidlmayr and Mr Comrades have also tabled an amendment which refers to Article I(8). I would ask those ladies and gentlemen of the House who agree to this request to give a sign on this point. – The proposal by Haidlmayr does not find a majority. Rejected. The rapporteur, Mr Rauch-Kallat, Mr Kostelka and Mr Comrades, have tabled an amendment which also refers to Article I(8). I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of Article I, paragraph 8, in the version of the amendment tabled by Mrs Rauch-Kallat, Dr Kostelka and comrades, to give an indication of this. . I can see that this has been decided unanimously. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on, including the title and receipt of the Committee's report, and ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of it to give a positive signal. – This is decided by a majority. This concludes the second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I should like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who also agree to the proposal at third reading give a sign on this point. – I notice: The proposal was adopted by a majority in third reading. In this context, we shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Aumayr on the implementation of successful popular desires. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this motion for a resolution to give a sign in this regard. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall also vote on the draft federal law amending the 1992 National Council electoral order, including the title and receipt in 1396 of the Supplements. Mr Haidlmayr and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment. First of all, I will vote on the part of the proposed amendment and then on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted on. The present draft shall contain further provisions in accordance with Article 26(1). 6 Federal Constitutional Act, i.e. the presence of at least half of the Members and a majority of two thirds of the votes cast, is necessary. First of all, I note the presence of this quota. We now come to the amendment tabled by Mr Haidlmayr and Mr Comrades, which refers to Article I(6). I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for this to be a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. This amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting on Article I(6) as amended by the Committee's report. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree with the provision in the Committee's report to give an appropriate sign. – This is adopted by a majority. We shall now vote on the remaining parts of this draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I may ask for a sign in case of consent. – I notice: Adopted by a majority, with the required two-thirds majority. That concludes the second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also give their approval to the draft law at third reading to give a sign. – The draft law is also adopted at third reading with the required two-thirds majority. We are now voting on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report in 1396. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this resolution to give a sign. – This has been accepted by the majority. (E 138.) We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Schmidt and Mr Comrades on improvements to people with disabilities in national elections. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – The application does not find a majority and is therefore rejected. Next, I shall vote on the draft federal law amending the European electoral system, together with the title and receipt in 1397 of the Supplements. There is also an amendment tabled by Mrs Haidlmayr. I shall first vote on the part of the amendment and then on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. This draft shall contain provisions in accordance with Article 23a. 5 of the Federal Constitutional Act requiring the presence of at least half of the members and a majority of two thirds of the votes cast. First of all, I note the presence of the relevant quota. In the matter itself, Members Haidlmayr and comrades have tabled an amendment which refers to Article I(6). I shall now vote on this amendment and ask for a sign in the case of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now vote on Article I. Point 6 as amended by the Committee's report. I would ask the ladies and gentlemen to agree to Rule I(6) as part of the Committee's report, a sign. – This is adopted by a majority. This means that we can now vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who want to give him their consent to a positive sign. . I note that the decision-making process has taken place with the required two-thirds majority. We shall now come to the third reading of this paper. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to give their approval to this draft law at third reading too, for a sign on this point. – The draft law is adopted at third reading with the required two-thirds majority. 6. Point First reading of motion 855/A by Dr Peter Kostelka, Dr. Andreas Khol and comrades concerning a federal law amending the Federal Law on the Rules of Procedure of the National Council (Regulatory Law 1975)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e15278	This leads us to the 6th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e15305	Mr President. High house! I have followed the previous debate very closely, and as far as I was able to do so – despite the "bad" sound quality, despite this "need" because of the wall – as far as I understood it correctly, the opposition has repeatedly addressed democracy and the democratic procedure in this House. [[The speaker points to the two approximately two-metre long, newly built-in speaker bars on both sides of the metal coat of arms eagle behind the president]] [[Rejoicing]] Representatives of the opposition also said: We would recognize it if something good came from the government parties, but that was not good as it was done here." In doing so, I thought it would be nice to be able to take the test on the example and have a point where you can really see: Does it recognize the opposition when something religious is presented, or does it automatically find a hair in the soup in everything that is done? And here, this point, this first reading, now offers us the opportunity to see it. The aim is to make amendments to the Rules of Procedure so that the preliminary consultation of a people's desire can take place more quickly and thus allow the Plenipotentiaries to nominate two additional representatives participating in the Committee's negotiations. This is a question of how the deliberations of popular desire are made more transparent and that recordings of sound and images are allowed. And this is about the delivery of the Committee's report, which will take the step to ensure that even the citizens, all those who have supported the popular desire, have the right to receive these reports free of charge on request. Now we'll see how the opposition really holds with what it said before. Will she come and say: Okay, that's something very good once, we'll say yes! Or will it be against it? Will she say again, even if she is for it: Yes, well, but there we still have this and that, this still has to come in! That alone is too little, that's too late!, or whatever? - I bet she's going the last way. She'll say: Yeah, but. She will say that it still has to be this and that this is too little, too late, and so on. It will not honour that this is an essential step. [[Abg. Wabl: The bet is valid!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to lose this bet, because it would be nice if everyone would say: Yes, that's something good, we decide in this house!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e15366	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Khol. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e15388	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I certainly have a strong sense of humor and have enjoyed some travesty and some parody here, especially when it came from the talented layman Andreas Wabl from Styria. But if, when it comes to the concept of democracy, you show a cynicism like this, then I'm laughing. [[Abg. Wabl: We cynical?! Hoho!]] – Yes, you were cynical, Mr. Wabl. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I understand your disappointment that your candidate for the Federal President's election was not successful, but how [[Abg. Wabl: We didn't have one!]] You apostrophic to the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, that went too far. I think you should take note of this – and I would also like to say this to Mrs Schmidt, who today, in her contribution to the democratic package, simply did not understand this – that the President of the Federal Republic has been elected by the people and is held responsible by the people and therefore the possibility of a written request to the President of the Federal Republic of Germany by Parliament would be a system break. [[Abg. Dr Schmidt: We have called for a subcommittee! A change of constitutional provisions!]] That, Mrs. Colleague, is under the level of intelligence I trust you after you have always spoken of "under my dignity". To this end, I think you are too well trained in constitutional and state theory, in order not to understand the difference and to know that the pure polemic is against the Federal President. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Today we have to negotiate the Rules of Procedure separately from the democratic package at first reading, because the Rules of Procedure Act is a special law. My group will, of course, take seriously the shortening of the deadlines for dealing with popular desire. We welcome the fact that we have planned a number of improvements in business regulations for the status of the proponents of popular desires, but also for the signatorys of popular desires. And I'm, like so often, an opinion with my friend Peter Schieder: That will once again be the sample on the exemplar, whether you are cynical of the opposition or whether you mean it honestly.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e15488	The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e15510	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Klubobmann Khol, in the present case a completely different procedure is being followed: There's a first reading. However, a change in the Rules of Procedure is planned in this way. [[Abg. Wabl: Mr Khol! That's what you wanted!]] I have the feeling that if that were not so planned and not mandatory, then you would have handled this law in a similar elegant – from your point of view elegant, but unfortunately not very in accordance with Parliament – way like the so-called democratic package. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wabl.]] One thing is certain for me, Mr. Klubobmann Khol: Our request for amendment of the People's Desire Act was made on 10 October. It was introduced in April 1997, but has not yet been treated. We have just seen a democratic package go over the ramp, which was done at a breathtaking speed and without significant opportunities for the opposition to argue – formally, but not materially – with it. And this difference is significant. But this does not change the fact that I would like to say here that what we intend to do in this first reading proposal is quite welcome by the intention, because we believe that it is a step in the right direction. It would be even better, of course, if we were to deal with the issue of minority law in the setting up of committees of inquiry – a controlled, limited, limited, but at least existing minority law — at such a debate on the Rules of Procedure, which will then take place in the Committee. Yesterday we were once again made aware that, even if things are already overly obvious – as is currently the case with Mr Farnleitner – and most urgently the political inquiry needs such a request will continue to turn off to the majority of the government parties in the future, if there is no such minority law. If this had been done, representatives of the government parties would have voted, for the sake of caution, and in the light of the likely results of the Committee's work, so that they would not have been able to find themselves in the rain afterwards than those who could not have prevented a committee. That would be another, more open access to democracy. But in a civil society where citizens do not exist inside, as Mr Khol did, such a thing is not foreseen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e15557	The next speaker is Mr Wabl, who has previously confused UN-City with the conference centre. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: And otherwise not always know everything!]] [[Abg. May. Stoisits: But that's all in the same district!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] – Ladies and gentlemen, I call Mr Wabl.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e15606	Mr President, Mr Fischer! Thank you very much for the correction. I would ask that this be done more often, that the speakers' statements be corrected here if they say something wrong. I admit, I was rare in Vienna at the time when this glorious ÖVP opposition policy was made and something really moved in the country, because people like Khol still knew what it means to be in the minority. Ladies and gentlemen! The bet, Mr Arbitrator, I assume. What you've presented here is all right with a point and an addition. No problem! I say that is a good proposal. I think that three times I was sitting in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure – this time, however, there was no committee. It is not necessary either, for you already have the two-thirds majority. What do you need us for?- Oh, my God! Mr Kier has said here that you have been forced to do a first reading and not to go through it that way. Ladies and gentlemen! They wanted to do the first reading yesterday and today already the second. They did not want a reform of the Rules of Procedure to be discussed. What you have proposed is, in itself, a serious and proper proposal. Ladies and gentlemen! Last year, Mr. Khol, in order to remain in cynicism, you thought under the pressure of the press, even under the pressure of the foreign press, about whether you could change the quota for the establishment of an investigation committee – something Mr Neisser called for in the opposition, something Mr. Fischer called for in the opposition. Now you're all full of government. Now don't ask for that anymore. Now you are proud if you also let representatives of popular desires talk here if you allow the public. Mr. Schieder! I agree. But please don't exaggerate with your pride! A substantial change in this House would be that control is a minority right. Of course, this right may also be overshadowed, abused, or otherwise it will happen to him. But, please, we also have a media control in this country, by the public! I expect from critical journalists that if the oppositionists misuse an instrument, they will be criticised for it in the public and a corrective result. Of course, abuse can happen in all areas. Democracy is basically the great attempt to allow the people to express their opinion here with the help of people's representatives who are sometimes stupid, sometimes well-informed, sometimes well-informed, sometimes ill-informed. There are mistakes and abuses. But that's the point, that's the great risk of democracy. There's a correction for that. There's free media for that. But you're selling it back here today as a big try: We'll see what the opposition says about this! Member of the Arbitrator! You know this as well as I do, because you are often sitting in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, you are an old, experienced parliamentarian, you know exactly how many Rules of Procedure we have carried together. We said that's an improvement. But for what would be a heartpiece, namely the control of the government by the minority, you only have an open ear and understanding if you are in opposition yourself. Ladies and gentlemen! I think that the US's growth is that the President is being re-controlled into the panties, a cabaret, a terrible debacle of democracy! This is where a president's intimate life is published over the Internet throughout the world, so that a politician's private life doesn't matter anymore. So stupid the man may have behaved in this causa, but that cannot be the democratic understanding! On the other hand, here in Austria, eleven people are thrown out, four people are murdered, and the people's representatives demand an investigation, but you say: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Mr. Khol says: No, I don't want an investigation. Democracy is determined by the majority, and I am part of the majority, and I have prevented any committee of inquiry from taking place. Ladies and gentlemen! This concept of democracy requires opposition and opposition by the opposition. On the one hand, as was the case yesterday, Mr Haider has been reporting from a secret document on this part of the House, and has no problem in quoting the debt of another Member. He reads this pleasantly – not even twice, but three times – he grazes himself on it. Then there's another discussion with the Minister of the Interior, who says: Mr Heindl has not disputed anything. It's taken. But I ask you: Why is this taken away? Is it only the abuse of some of the officials who are advocating to the oppositional liberals and the abuse of a Member here from this speaker's desk, or is it perhaps your responsibility that those institutions, which are intended to do so, be degraded exclusively to participants in meetings in which nothing happens? We have a committee for the control of intelligence services. We have a committee in which the Minister of Defence should provide information. We have committees which are officially planned for this purpose. Mr Schieder and Mr Khol, to stay with cynicism again: Our group has made a significant contribution to the increase in penalties for indiscretions in committees that a parliamentarian loses his immunity immediately if he passes on data that put people at risk. Of course, it may happen in the case of intelligence services that a person is at risk of life through indiscretion from a committee. Of course, the hardness of the law should be applied. But what are you doing as a congregator? – They ensure that nothing is said in these committees. I can read in every newspaper what the ministers tell you there. And then you will be surprised if Mr Haider, with his contacts with the blues, or whatever color, gets police equipment documents by which he can spread the private details of members of this House – without any reaction! Ladies and gentlemen! On the one hand, they ruin the correct control institutes and wonder, on the other hand, that the procurement of indiscreet materials, secret papers, personal records is routinely carried out in this country! Ladies and gentlemen! I'll tell you: What happens in this country always happens as a reaction. What FPÖ does in its exaggeration and often in its malice, brutality and in its populism, ladies and gentlemen, is also a reaction to the ignorance of many parts of this House. [[Contradict with the liberals]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Schieder! Read what President Fischer wrote in his writings at that time! Read on, Mr Khol, what President Neisser wrote in his papers on the Committee of Inquiry at that time. And then, with the liberals, with the liberals, with the ÖVP and with the SPÖ, either in the Committee or in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, as it was good tradition in this House, let us discuss how we can minimize abuse and optimise the benefits for democracy! But you don't want that anymore. It is enough if Mr Khol holds his protective hand over Mr Farnleitner. It is indifferent to him that an entire authority has been completely removed. He doesn't need an investigation! No, most importantly, it's going to be served out! And then there are as cynical sayings as in the "Time in Picture 3" where he says: I would rather, the German Mountain Authority examines than Mr. Wabl with the candle in the shafts. - That's what you're talking about cynicism? That's what you're talking about, Mr. Khol, about cynicism, and you're setting up here the ant of a deeply believing ministrant?- Oh, my God! I tell you, Mr Khol: I'm every measles and every ministrant who honestly has this ant, rather than your fathomed, routineed, often polemic and... . So this speech yesterday by Mr Schwimmer! That's the fat I've been fighting to quote a big writer. Mr. Schieder! I have taken your words seriously, and I am already looking forward to the gift – the Bonbonniers from Strasbourg. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Now he has to laugh himself! Now you're laughing at yourself! Mr. Wabl, you don't take yourself seriously! That's your problem! In serious things, you laugh at yourself! Unfortunately, you have to say it!]] – A friend once told me: That's great, even if you can laugh at yourself! You know, the quote from this writer is so beautiful! But, Mr. Khol,... [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You're narcissistic, you're in love with yourself, and that's what you see in this speech!]] Our psychologist Khol! Mr Khol, I thought you were Klubobmann and you were still more powerful, but I did not know that you have become a psychologist. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Those who eat a lot of nuclear oil will become a psychologist!]] You also have another profession that I know enough, you're a hobby bastard. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I am gardener too!]] They base on the Constitutional Arch, which is sometimes opened and sometimes closed. I think that after this speech I am out of the Constitutional Arch. Today, Mr Stadler must have come in again, slipped in; he is allowed to take a nap with him again. Mr. Khol! I ask you: Let us admit that we have negotiated fairly and correctly in the committees and in the Rules of Procedure. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I never disputed that!]] But – and this is my accusation to the FPÖ, Mr Stadler – in the previous reform of the Rules of Procedure, the Greens voted against and your group voted in favour. [[Abg. May. Stadler: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] In order to determine the price of some of the instruments that only you could use, you submitted the quota in connection with the Committee of Inquiry, you said: Well, that's what we're giving you! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: That was your fall of sin! Four political groups for this, one against it.]] Mr. Stadler! Read in the logs! I can't help you, I don't want you to, but I can tell you a comfort in this matter, Mr Stadler The then representative of the Freedom Party is now sitting with the Liberals. [[Abg. May. Stadler: I don't need any comfort!]] That's a comfort for you! But this was obviously the line of the FPÖ. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You're sorry now! That's the whole background! Now you are in regret of the Committee of Inquiry.]] It is likely that Haider then led the negotiations: We are giving up the important point of the Committee of Inquiry so that we can get those instruments that can only be used by an opposition party of a certain size! That was the price of the previous reform of the Rules of Procedure. For it was on the agenda to reduce the quota for committee of inquiry. Now it's not on the agenda anymore, and I'd ask you: Put it up again! Mr. Khol! Look After what you wrote in your diary last summer, when there was a parliament boycott! At that time you said: Yes, we are ready to talk about it, but first we need the reform of how this procedure should be handled in the committee of inquiry. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Of course, because the fungus procedures were a problem!]] All right! Gifted, Mr. Schieder! But we have made corrections, we have made reforms. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Now nothing happens again! Dead right!]] That's right! And Mr. Khol said: If we have that, we can talk about it. Mr Khol! That's cynicism! You're lucky you're a Catholic, because tomorrow you can go back to Groër or to someone else and say: Please, forgive me, I have sinned! You think you'll be decent again tomorrow. Only: With you, where you so routinely make these promises and then don't keep them, it will be dangerous! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: This is the smooth untruth!]] Mr Khol! I'd ask you: Look at your diary, I'm sure it's inside! And colleagues will know, and the others will also know: We negotiated at the time. The unpleasant one was once again your "Wonderful" colleague Haider, who then went to "Tommy", to Mr. Kletil, and said: There's nothing we need to investigate! I looked him deep in my eyes and found that it's all right on the Kurdish question, it fits everything. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That was it too!]] In addition, we made a small deal: He speaks decently about the FPÖ. – That was the business at the time. Mr. Khol! They are often a congenial partner of the Freedom Party. You shouldn't forget that! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e15813	Mrs Aumayr has the floor. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e15834	Mr President. High house! Mr Khol, I do not think that Mr Wabl is a fool. I think he's way too much. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: This is very insulting!]] No, Mr Schieder, that's not insulting, that's my personal opinion. [[Abg. Arbitrators: This is very humiliating to man! That's really not nice what you're doing! You don't talk about people like that!]] Mr. Schieder! You have prophesied in your explanations that the opposition will restore a but and any arguments that it cannot agree with this new Rules of Procedure. I can tell you, Mr Arbitrator: No but, but a and. [[Abg. Arbitrators: You can't reconcile me with the petting now!]] It does not change for the citizens at all if the duration of the proceedings is reduced from four to six months in the case of popular desires if several people can participate in the negotiations if they receive the reports free of charge. What changes, please, for the citizens, when, basically, they come back to the end that their concerns, their popular desires are simply shubbled? Mr Khol, I seriously ask you – I cannot imagine that you do not understand this –: If hundreds of thousands of citizens in Austria go on their way to the municipal office, declare themselves, announce their political will, and then go to the government parties – just like in the genetic engineering people’s desire, as in the desire for women’s people – and simply ignore this will evade, shubble after sham negotiations – is that your concept of democracy? Mr Khol! When does your "constitutional" say that the right in this state goes from the citizen to the people? This must go hand in hand, this change in the Rules of Procedure is a real step, we are really positive towards it, but at the same time there must be a constitutional change, so that at last the citizens who make the effort and go to the municipal office who are subject to this democratic duty will have their right.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e15903	No further words are available. That concludes the debate. I agree with the proposed initiative 855/A to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. 7. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the supplementary report of the Court of Auditors (To III-106 of the Supplements) for the 1996 administrative year (1355 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e15939	We're on the 7th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. I have the first speech by Mrs Apfelbeck. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e15966	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen here in the House! The Court of Auditors shows us on 250 pages how this Federal Government deals with taxpayers' money, and I would like to thank the officials of the Court of Auditors for this detailed report on behalf of my group. 29 reviews have been included in this supplement. In the Committee, however, the representatives of these 29 cases were allowed to question only 6 cases – this was kindly approved by the rulers. [[Abg. Koppler: Who was chairman?]] Mr President, I should like to thank You're talking about the wrong committee. I am speaking now of the Court of Auditors and not of the Subcommittee. [[Abg. Koppler: Me too!]] We were approved by the Faculty of Mechanical Engineering, which has been waiting for 80 years – exactly since April 1990 – to be built. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: 1919! You said "1990"!]] For 80 years now, honourable Member. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: 1919! You said "1990"!]] Since 1919, yes, right. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's what we say: 1919! You said "1990"!]] For this faculty, ladies and gentlemen, it will probably be called: Please wait and pay – and this is not enough! Apart from the twenty planning costs and so on, taxpayers have been paying basic reservation costs of 988 000 p. a month since 1993. The Vienna Festival Weeks were not approved for questioning in the Court of Auditors. For decades, Vienna was a purely red domain, that is, the reds were able to switch and operate as they wanted. And they wanted – and how they wanted! That is exactly what the Court of Auditors is showing us in its report. During the Vienna Festival weeks, the same persons were used on both sides at the same time, as promoters as well as as as promoters. Therefore, the booking of the funding was also generous, saying: not available, because it was only agreed orally. As regards the Court's complaint regarding the lack of balance sheets, the Wiener Festwochen managers replied that they were not obliged to report. That is, if, without being asked, the taxpayer sent them the money, they would not be accountable for what they did with this money. The intentional agent, which according to the Court of Auditors is nevertheless superfluous, was granted an annual salary of 14 times 90 000 S for the intensity of a 6-week festival and an additional pension provision for the legal person. Just like the Secretary-General. However, it had to be satisfied with 14 times 85 000 S, but also with an expectation of an additional pension. The Wiener Festwochen also presented an analysis of the fact that one million Viennan cultural interests were sold from 1993 to 1996 only 35 000 cards or 64 000 cards, on average 50,000 cards. That is, ladies and gentlemen: Either there is not one million Vienneses who are interested in culture, which I believe is less, or the culture produced is such that 950 000 of one million people interested in culture, 95 percent say "no, thank you". A high proportion of these cards had to be issued free of charge, so that someone was sitting in the audience at all. [[Abg. Koppler: Could you tell us that again?]] For the opening, well-known artists were engaged, to whom a full performance fee was paid for participation in the sample. For example, a singer was paid to Gage for a single song of 600,000 S. The funding was not allocated according to the real need, but was sent automatically, which of course did not make use of the means of taxation and was partly used unlawfully. But, my Ladies and gentlemen, some certainly had great joy, namely those who marched a piece of the road together with the Vienna Reds. However, the Court of Auditors has also examined the system of the so-called free-school book action. This book, which is supposed to cost nothing, cost taxpayers half a billion schillings in 1972, in 1992 already a billion. However, the number of pupils dropped more and more. The management of this action alone cost 16 million Schilling each year. But also the schoolbook offer enjoys a galloping inflation: It rose by 214 percent. In the AHS alone, 21 different history books were recorded on the order book. No one can tell me that our teachers use 21 different teaching methods so that 21 different work documents are necessary. The remedy which the Court of Auditors strongly recommends should also be implemented: System change, including the so-called price reduction in the then honest price, ladies and gentlemen, but also serious control. We should follow all the suggestions for improving and protecting the tax system recommended by the Court of Auditors. In the ministry one should not think about how to get more money, for example by increasing the unit values and so on, but where and as in the individual ministries can be saved. The Court of Auditors also lists this precisely, but only needs to be followed. It could be as easy as that, but then there would be no more percentage for the ministry, such as the Free School Book Action. However, the Court of Auditors also examined the furniture museum, but we were not allowed to question it in the Court of Auditors' Committee. I can already understand the ÖVP, but her former State Secretary Fekter owes the taxpayer 1.2 million schilling for a tableware, which may be artistically valuable, but since then has been stored as a plaster print in a display from which one could not eat. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Oh! Oh! Mrs. Fekter!]] A member of the government should already know that the table service of the Republic of Austria is used for food and not for viewing. But tax money was also wasted at the furniture museum. 250 million schillings were spent on this museum, but the design was still open. That is to say, one has spent heavily on taxpayers without knowing what to do. 162,000 objects should be managed, but only 84 percent of them were inventoryd. For me, the question is: Who's responsible for the rest? The Court of Auditors found that a large part had been granted without complete records. The audit of the Court of Auditors also revealed lost art-historical objects, 114 objects worth a million schilling! How about a "fifty-finding allowance"? Then some would remember where and from whom the Republic of Austria is used. Despite the good work that the Court of Auditors has presented to us, it must also be blamed, just as this Federal Government is, that it is also wasting or helping to do so. For over one and a half years, the Court of Auditors has examined the effectiveness and efficiency of the Semmering base tunnel. For half a year there has been this so-called raw or working report, and he is also always enthusiastic about the media. Federal Minister One already has in spring, exactly on 16 July. In April 1998, the "Standard" drew conclusions from this raw report. In July HL-AG decided to drive another 500 meters ahead. The costs are exploded to double, but it is drilled further. However, the Court of Auditors is silent and does not submit a report to us. Every day delay, Mr President, costs taxpayers money. The Court of Auditors must act faster. There is a danger that the Court of Auditors will become the tool of taxpayers' money. I was very sorry because we greatly appreciate the work of this Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e16082	The next speaker is Mr Brix. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e16103	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! The 251-page supplement on the activities of the Court of Auditors in 1996 represents a more than positive report. I would like to correct what Mrs Aumayr said was falsely presented here. [[Abg. Aumayr: Mr Colleague, I have not spoken!]] - Excuse me, please, I'm correcting the colleague Appleböck. [[Abg. Apple beck: Apple beck!]] Excuse me, colleague Aumayr! I note here that the colleague, Mr Appleböck, mistakenly spoke of the fact that some of the 29 chapters covered by this report have been selected by the opposition, since all those chapters you chose were also discussed in the Court of Auditors. [[Abg. Apple beck: Apple beck!]] Therefore, it is wrong if you say here that the opposition could only speak to six chapters. This is not correct, because the agreement with all the parties lays down the reports in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] If you are talking about the fact that the Committee has not been largely positive about these reports, and all these chapters, which you have also proposed, have only received majority approval, I note here: If the majority decides something, it is accepted, even if another group has a different view on it. [[Abg. Applebeck: So you admit that we wanted it!]] I admit that we have presented you with 29 chapters. You have selected some of them, the others you did not want, and we have discussed those you have selected, and they have also been treated in a positive way. [[Abg. Apple brook: Eleven!]] Colleague Applebeck! If you had selected more, we would have discussed more! It was not up to us, but it was not at the hands of the government parties that we could have discussed more. You have apparently had less time, so we have also discussed only those chapters that you have proposed. Let me tell you one more thing, who I was a member of the Vienna Municipal Council and the Vienna Landtag for ten years: If you, Mrs. Appleböck, talk about the Vienna Festival Weeks and say that there was a million cards on it, but they all didn't go, then show me that event center, no matter where many people can go. [[Rejoicing]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Mr Koppler, that's the apple beck!]] I can only tell you that at the Vienna Festival weeks – you have no idea of the Vienna Festival weeks – the people around the cards are hired and that events of the Vienna Festival weeks are sold out at a week's notice. [[Abg. Apple Basin: The Third Worst Load of the Feast Weeks!]] [[Rejoicing and applause at SPÖ]] That's a fact! [[Abg. Applebeck: Read the Court of Auditors report!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I do not wish to mention, however, that this is a merit of the Court of Auditors' officials, and therefore I would also like to thank the President of the Court of Auditors for having a comprehensive, clear report on the basis of which we can work. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: How much deficit do you make?]] High house! If the Court of Auditors – I say this again today, and I will say it so long until this demand is fulfilled – is increasingly responsible, more staff will have to be included. I can only say clearly and clearly that those women and men who work in the Court of Auditors must also be protected by this Republic and that they must also have a pragmatic employment relationship. These women and men belong to pragmatized so that they can do their work! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! If the Court of Auditors is to do a proper job – and this is done; we see that only from this report – then from this point of view I would ask the President of the Court of Auditors to carry out informational discussions about the fact that the Court of Auditors itself should have independent auditors examined the efficiency of its work. I believe that the President of the Court of Auditors will then be able to stand before us even more openly and freely and say: Look, in my office too, everything is fine because I comply with the guidelines! Therefore, on behalf of my group, I propose a review of the Court of Auditors by independent auditors. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let me conclude by saying one more thing because it corresponds to the current daily policy. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: You can make a request, you do not need to suggest that!]] Please don't stand in the ban on your provocative Mercedes, and as a Member of Parliament, you must also comply with the laws, Mr Bauer! [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: You should be careful with holding your own place! With the nocturnal parking you should be careful, dear friend!]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! In view of today's media reports, which, according to Trattner, helps the Federal Party of the Freedoms to avert the bankruptcy of the Lower Austrian FPÖ, I would like to recall a request from the four parties in June, before the summer – the Liberals, the Greens, the ÖVP and the SPÖ – in which it is stated that the Court of Auditors should examine the parties in relation to the public funds that the clubs and the parties receive. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Which four?]] At that time, there was a request from Mr Stadler, who said: We are in favour of this, but the review should take place in the order of the mandate strength. We said that at the time, we do not want to, because until they arrive, the 1999 National Council elections are over. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Oh that! Now it comes out! That was a confession of the SPÖ! Oh, those were the reasons? I am very grateful for that!]] And now we hear that federal funds are moving to the Lower Austrian FPÖ. If the Court of Auditors does not already have an audit order with you, then, I think, he has now received the audit order from you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e16353	The next speaker is Mrs Gredler. 6 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e16374	Mr President. Federal Minister! I am very happy that we have a report from you, Mr President Fierce, which has provided us with very, very valuable information. First I want to focus on the Technical University of Vienna and then come to the next point. [[Abg. Wabl: Doctoral Honor!]] Mr Wabl, after you promised me to defend the doctors, of course I can keep my remarks short. First at the Technical University: It's a good... [[Abg. Koppler: I can't do that! The tears are coming to me!]] That's what we'll talk about afterwards. First, let me explain the history of the Technical University and the project development that has been made about the property of the Aspang grounds. It started in April 1919 with the purchase. In 1920 there was the first competition. Then you have a biterl, but you have stopped the Buddlery soon and decided to wait. In 1972 there was the second competition, another attempt to activate these aspang grounds in order to expand the then k.k. technical university, as it was called in 1919. That's not enough. We had the third competition in 1989. Good. Then we finally elected a winner. In June 1993 there was a first preliminary draft. But that's not enough. In June 1994 there was the second preliminary draft. Good. Then you ended the thing once with the pre-designs. In July 1995 a feasibility study was carried out. All of this has cost 180 million Schilling so far, with a monthly payment for the reservation of the Aspanggrund 980 000 S, without an increase in index and sales tax. Almost a million – rich is the Republic, I must say – every month only for reserveing a property! [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: You obviously don't understand that! That makes sense!]] It makes sense to wait for anything to happen since 1919 – and that is what I am taking away from the report – so to speak? The professors are suffering, the assistants are the sufferers, the students are suffering. You, Dr. Lukesch, are certainly not the sufferer. In May 1988, a spatial and functional programme was created by the Technical University and a net area of use of approximately 71 000 m2 was required. Then came the alternative proposal Donau-City; at that time a net area of about 34 000 m2 was required for the spatial and functional plans. The Court of Auditors now criticises the fact that the examination of the spatial and functional programme has not been carried out at all, which has resulted in uneconomic planning processes, time deviations and delays in the approval of the preliminary draft. But that's not enough. In March 1991, there was an opinion on an alternative energy supply that would have brought cost savings of almost 18 million schilling – an innovative concept, a combined supply variant. It has been calculated that this could save an annual energy cost of 5 million schillings. However, after the construction project was taken over by the BIG, it was found that: No, that's not good. We do this quite differently, with conventional energy supply. – However, no cost calculation was carried out for this purpose. This is a pity, because if you want to be innovative – and I really have to praise the planners – then you will be punished and you will be told: No, conventionally, it's much better. – Obviously, because it is much more expensive and therefore "better". With Mrs Finanzstadtratin Ederer, the city of Vienna has agreed on a 30-billion-shilling package with which the city of Vienna gives the federal government 16 000 m2 on the Danube Plate. There is a contract that states that the federal government should establish a university on this site until 2006. This Agreement shall be valid. So now there is the one variant that has already cost 180 million Schilling, and on the other hand there is a contract that requires a university to be built up quickly by 2006. This, of course, leads to considerable problems. But the story is not over yet. The former Federal Minister Busek had already set an appointment for the ground-breaking ceremony at the Aspang grounds, but then apparently the then Minister of Finance "challenged" him and said: We don't have any money for it. So it was almost so far that it could be built – although on the aspang grounds, but anyway – but then the project was put on ice again. Now it is happening that the poor students obviously have to travel between 13 different locations. Whether that's really useful, I dare doubt. The affected Faculty of Mechanical Engineering would prefer the Danube Plate, but there is also the area that has been reserved on the Aspang grounds. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] Federal Minister! I really don't know what the failed variant is anymore. There is apparently a feasibility study by Mayrhof/Nadler in which a recommendation for the reasons of aspang is given in scenario 5. I mean, you should definitely prefer the Danube Plate. I would recommend that you make an invitation to tender so that architects are involved in the planning. The Chamber of Architects has already criticized the fact that one simply wants to create some kind of building – I would say, a complete pile – without thinking about how to bring in a certain harmonious construction. I would also like to warn against simply setting up a ready-to-use pile, because if so, then such concentration and representation of technology and industry should of course also have a face. Austria should not be degraded to give the impression that only any pre-filled piles can be built. I would like us to come to a conclusion soon, so that sometime this university can be built in a favorable place and sometime the suffering of the professors, the students, the assistants and assistants will end. [[Acclaim at the Liberal Forum and Abg. Wabl.]] A supplement – I waited for the applause – regarding the income of primary doctors. There are some regulatory requirements, which have only been partially completed so far. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] In public-law institutions, we have the power, but please leave the private hospitals out of the game! These are to make up the contracts with their employees themselves. [[Abg. Koppler: It's about special fees!]] If we are already talking about the special charges, please also talk about the basic salaries, because the basic salaries of the primary doctors are embarrassing! [[Abg. Koppler:... Court of Auditors’ activity report?]] There is no wonder that the special charges, I admit, partially compensate for this in excess, which is not actually wanted by all sides. [[Congratulation of the Abg. May. Barmüller.]] If the primary doctors receive decent fees, they will also spend more time in the hospital and will be available at about 3 p.m. in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e16484	The next speaker is Mr Wurmitzer. 10 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e16506	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! What I heard here today from the speakers of the opposition on the subject of control of public behaviour in Austria has shaken me. Here, for example, Mr Wabl claimed the conviction in the throttle: Control is the right of the minority. Mr Wabl! They apparently do not know the Austrian federal constitution. Control is the right and mandate of Parliament as a whole. The Austrian Parliament is using the Court of Auditors to do this, and I can tell you: We trust the Court more than a village judge Adam in the person of Deputies Wabl! [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr Gredler.]] Your hysterical activity nourishes in me the assumption that you believe that by extending your control rights you will be able to reverse the results of the elections. [[Unrest in the hall]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign]] I can assure you: That's where you'll bite granite. If you take control as seriously as you do I would ask you, Mr Wabl: Where were the representatives of the two opposition parties, the Liberal Forum and the Greens, today when a meeting of the Committee on the Court of Auditors took place? - They weren't there. So "serious" take control in this Republic, and the citizens of our country should know that too! - Yes, that's the truth. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. Lukesch.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] Mrs Apfelbeck has claimed that only six out of 29 cases included in this supplementary report have been reviewed. I would like to ask you, Mrs Apfelbeck: Who has prevented you from asking for other cases, too? [[Abg. Applebeck: You!]] I can tell you from here: We are still ready to examine in the Committee all the other cases that you have examined, because we leave the opposition parties the choice of the chapters to be examined, in order to ensure objective and precise control without the strong influence of the government parties. [[Abg. Wabl: Right of referral!]] You mentioned, for example, the chapter on Vienna Festival Week, Mrs Applebeck. That's where I blame you: Why did you not give us the opportunity to discuss this in committee? – I am ready to do so, and the ÖVP is ready to do so. But we do not go along if you want to bring the cultural struggle of the Freedom Party into this area. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have already experienced a number of statements today that I suspect you want to stir up the envy complex with the aim of making the cultural capital of Vienna become the cultural backyard of Europe. We will certainly not take this path with you. I was very shocked by something else today, because you, my colleague, Mr Applebeck, gave the impression in your statement about Mrs Fekter that she had enriched herself personally. I would like to point this out to the most massive! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It owes the Republic 1.2 million schilling, you have literally said here. That's not true! Mrs Fekter, as State Secretary, has announced a designer competition. Anyone who knows a little about international design knows that 1.2 million schilling are a bagatelle for such a competition. I know what I am talking about because one of my sons is working in this area in the UK. And you want to give the impression here that Mrs. Dr. Fekter was a state secretary wasting public money. The fact that this project has not been implemented then is on another sheet, since the decision-makers still have the right to be implemented accordingly after a competition. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Apple beck.]] However, I do not want to deal too much with the opposition here, but rather with two areas in which the control and activity of the Court of Auditors have had a very positive impact. The first area concerns ASFINAG and ÖSAG. It has been found that the ASFINAG has not complied with the requirements since its inception. It was not clearly defined in the field of competence, nor were the accounting groups precise. There were also unfavorable loans in this area. The criticism of the Court of Auditors caused a restructuring in 1997 and I would like to thank the Court of Auditors for its conscientious activity. Today, ASFINAG is a holding company that connects the two companies ASAG and ÖSAG. It is today in a position to carry out the tasks entrusted to it. At present, a 3.5 billion Schilling construction programme is being implemented in Austria every year in the road construction sector, and conservation measures are being implemented in the order of 2.5 billion Schilling. Of course, it must be our objective to achieve by this restructuring that the gap in the high-level road network in Austria is relatively rapid. This promise was also given. On this basis, we want to close the network of high-level roads in Austria by 2006 – both the South motorway and the A9 – the Pyhrn motorway – so that Austria does not miss the international connection in Europe and that the Austrian drivers and the transporters find appropriate conditions. The level of coverage is currently 76 percent, i.e. in 2001 the truck toll will have to come to meet this financial needs and to enable ASFINAG to carry out these tasks as well. I would also like to make a constructive proposal from this point of view, namely that this development should be continued, that the holding company ASFINAG should be made a sole member of ASFINAG and that the two companies ASAG and ÖSAG should take up in the ASFINAG. It is important for us to have positive aspects and positive effects on the citizens of our country as a result of control. I allow myself a view: I expect, of course, that the Semmering road tunnel will be built – contrary to what Mr Wabl has said today. We will not allow the southern and western states of Austria to remain the stepchildren of this Republic by traffic. The citizens in Carinthia, Styria, Salzburg, Tirol and Vorarlberg also have a right to be connected accordingly by road. The second area I would like to address concerns environmental promotion abroad. Until 1989 it was not possible to promote the environment abroad because the COMECON countries have not allowed such support and influence. It was already known that there are large quantities of emissions that flow from the Czech Republic, Slovenia, Slovakia and, in some cases, Hungary to our country. It was only with the fall of the Iron Curtain that it was possible to provide appropriate assistance in these countries, whatever Austria has been doing since 1991. This help was first carried out immaterially in the form of projects, consultations and the transfer of know-how. The Court of Auditors then intervened and said: Dear Federal Government, in the future it will be necessary to transform this immaterial aid into a material aid – that is, a project funding. The government has responded accordingly. The Environmental Promotion Act has been amended. The relevant directives have been adopted, although I would like to add that, especially in this area, the promotion measures are not easy, since at the beginning there has not been a suitable contact in the former Eastern Bloc States – in those four countries affected by them. At this point, I would like to express the wish that the Republic of Poland should also be included in this Funding Act, because the proximity to Austria still has an environmental impact on ours. In this way, it has succeeded in rehabilitating at least some cases – which are contained in the report of the Ministry of the Environment. I am thinking, for example, of the Schönstein coal power plant in the lower Drautal – Soštanj in Slovenian – or of the power plants in the Czech Republic and Slovakia. We should continue with this approach. Because one thing is certain: By investing 1 billion schilling in these Eastern European countries, up to 20 percent of emissions can be reduced there. The use of the same amount may only result in a 1 per cent reduction in Austria. That is to say, in Austria we have already achieved such a high level of emission reduction that any further measure or any further percentage of the reduction in emissions in Austria is at least ten times as expensive as in our neighbouring countries. We from the People's Party are committed to these measures. We would also like to welcome the Court of Auditors' suggestions to improve these funding abroad and thus help our neighbours.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e16610	Mr Wabl has now come to speak. You still have 10 minutes of speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e16632	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Wurmitzer, your arguments on: [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Was a good speech from Wurmitzer!]] I don't know what this kind of diffamation you used here today is necessary for. [[Abg. Wormitzer: What diffamation?]] They have done so, the Greens and the Liberals do not take the control seriously, because they were not present at the meeting of the Court of Auditors in the early days. – Look, this was a meeting of the Court of Auditors, in which only the information people... – No, you did not say the untruth, but you know: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wormitzer.]] Truth is something other than what came out of your mouth in this case. Mr Wurmitzer! Mr Wurmitzer! Ladies and gentlemen from Carinthia! The Carinthian style may have corrupted you a little. The Committee meeting this morning was exclusively intended to determine the information. We have seen a list that has been chordd and defined. I had the pleasure of being in the presidency in representative of Mrs Klubobfrau Petrovic and therefore I was unable to take over the Committee's chairmanship. That's why I asked Mrs. Applebeck to take over. I do not take the control seriously, Mr Wurmitzer. What do you want me to say? I ask you: What do you want me to say? As an old, professional MP, give me a little tip! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwarzenberger.]] How to deal with such attempts by a member of the government party? How do you deal with such accusations? How do you deal with this? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Headmaster.]] You put yourself in his bank and you say: The Wormitzer is a...!, or you act correctly and says... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wormitzer.]] Mr Wurmitzer, you know, I have nothing against a hard fight, but don't get under the last drawer! That is not necessary, Mr Wurmitzer. There are enough mistakes that you can criticize with me. You don't need to spell things that really aren't right. Mr Wurmitzer! A second point: You have said that you trust the Court of Auditors more than Mr Wabl. – Look, Mr Wurmitzer, what is the point of this statement? – The Court of Auditors is a valuable instrument, an auxiliary body – in the best sense of the word! – this House, the National Council, because there are experts working there who, by virtue of their best vocational training, are legally examining the matters of the State which they have the power to examine under the Constitution. This body, the National Council – and hence you – should scale the political needs and consequences of it and examine the consequences that are necessary. Mr Wurmitzer! Why Saying What are you doing? For whom? For your Carinthian audience? – You know exactly how you are doing in these committees. It is not yet possible to publish it, because it is still a secret committee protocol. But as you have done there with regard to information people, that ridicules every description! [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch:..., that mocks every description!]] They only allow those who are pleased with you! In the case of a normal report, this is indifferent to you, since nothing can happen anyway, we are only discussing it. [[Abg. Koppler: Who is usually proposing to the persons providing information?]] – All parties propose them! All parties! But if there is a subcommittee in which the opposition has set up an audit item, it is obvious that you will meet the minorities in this committee. But You create such absurd demands as you say: We only allow more decent officials at all. - Read it in the minutes! Mr Wurmitzer! Mr President, I should like to thank Deputies! Read it! [[Abg. Wormitzer: Just say the truth!]] My God, Lord Wormitzer, please don't keep the beautiful word in your mouth! It's wasting! It's wasting when you use it! Mr Wurmitzer! I ask you: Read the logs, and that's exactly what's inside. We wanted to invite lawyers, experts and experts. But what did you say? – That would not be possible at all! He must have an ÖVP pickerl. Only a solid, certified ÖVP official should be allowed to provide information in this Committee. With the politicians, you follow a different principle: It is possible to load it up to a certain level in the hierarchy. Someone who wants to present himself, like Hirschmann, a gifted self-doctor, may come, yes, he must even come. [[Abg. Wormitzer: How you!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Then he has to!]] But when it comes to politicians who are already in a category that goes to the "Majestät" then – God beware! – immediately established contact with the "net, love" partner and informed him: Please, I'll just tell you one thing: If you bring in our country's chief, you know, Then we will bring in your councils, and then you will see what you have of it! [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: That's all lying!]] Mr Wurmitzer! If this is your type of control policy, tell the public once! We do not need to play against a politician by the President of the Court of Auditors and the Court of Auditors. That's superfluous! It's not against each other. We know exactly what we have in this valuable institution, even if we sometimes criticize it. But essentially this is a correct institution, it works excellent – so excellent that you sometimes fear it. This is the problem, Mr Wurmitzer. [[Abg. Wormitzer: (laughing) But where!]] Mr Wurmitzer! We will be able to compare the majority and minority reports in this subcommittee, and we will hopefully be able to publish the protocols. You certainly agree with that, because you want what has been said there to be the public. I'm convinced of that! And then people can check if what you said is true or wrong. [[Abg. Wormitzer: First confidential, then publish! I'm not crazy!]] Only you can do that, as was the case with the last Subcommittee, when only you were allowed to make the confidential communications. I know the majority will be back. Ladies and gentlemen! It is a ritual in this House – essentially of the government parties – to thank the officials of the Court of Auditors. I am also doing so today, since I believe that many officials who work intensively on certain materials sometimes feel that their work in this House is not being appreciated enough. However, I would like to say that many things work, even without being discussed in this House, because the institutions and the administrative system, of course, also react to the report if it is not negotiated in our committees. But, of course, Mrs Apfelbeck is essentially right in saying that certain areas are no longer being negotiated. But this is linked to the fact that, if we want to have dates, you always withdraw from the government parties and say: Don't go, can't! Mr Wurmitzer! This game is running all too often! [[Abg. Wormitzer: Why the untruth again?]] Oh, God, Mr. Wurmitzer! [[Abg. Wormitzer: Again the untruth!]] I'm not upset about you anymore. Ladies and gentlemen! I am really glad that what the Court of Auditors is doing works without the work of this House. Many areas of administration work better on their own because they know that they are being examined at certain intervals by the Court of Auditors. However, there are also chapters in this report where the National Council would be very likely to be called for. I would just like to mention one area that seems particularly blatant to me, namely that of the doctors' fees. Mr Koppler will also discuss this in detail. Mr Wurmitzer! The Court of Auditors strongly criticises the relevant regulations in the individual hospitals of the federal states. There are honours that a normal politician loses, even if he deserves as much as you do. Mr Wurmitzer! That must be changed, it must not be! There, salaries are paid that are much higher than what the Federal Chancellor of this Republic deserves. I am talking about the public hospitals, not the private institutions that led Mrs Gredler. We can talk about the tax rates at private institutions. But the fees in public hospitals are public funds, which are amounts paid by compulsory insurance contributions. And in this area there are differences from one to 8 million! [[Abg. Dr Gredler: Not public money!]] Especially those who do good and best work in the middle construction are dissatisfied with this. That's what the report says. Mr Wurmitzer! I do not think that we are now taking action against the doctors' fees together with the envy society. [[Abg. Wormitzer: Don't!]] They're laughing. Take the criticism of this report seriously! It states that the considerable differences in income – I emphasize that I am not saying that, but that is what the Court of Auditors says – are considered to be unsatisfactory by a small proportion of the medical profession. We have tried to find a more transparent system at the political and political incomes – I don't want to talk about "right" at all. Let's try this in the field of public hospitals. Let us sit down in a serious way, together with all the political groups, with the medical representatives and those who are dissatisfied with it, possibly also with the Court of Auditors, and let us change this system! [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] I consider the current system to be deeply unfair and galloyal, even within hospitals, since not always those doctors get the most money that also do the best work. I mention this because, in some areas where there are no patients with supplementary insurance, primary doctors receive only a small proportion of the fees paid to primary doctors in certain clinics. [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign again]] That's just a...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e16884	Deputies! The bell sign was for you. Your speaking time has expired. I would ask for the final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e16902	Mr. Neisser! Thank you for the excellent joke! I understand that you are a little nervous because you as President are no longer allowed to speak here. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: You're nervous!]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e16944	Deputies! I would like to stress that the implementation of the Rules of Procedure has nothing to do with nervousness. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] The next speaker was Mr Koppler. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e16974	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Wabl! Their statements on the information subjects were the subject of your speech at the last debate on the Court of Auditors. Obviously, you have a lot to do with it. In my opinion, we should be talking about the way in which information is handled. Then we'll see what you think is right. Maybe we'll find a common denominator. In principle – and this is also a repetition exercise – are mainly invited those persons who are proposed by the opposition. That's a good thing, too. I'll bet you do that. But, ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the Court of Auditors' activity report on the 1996 administrative year, the report on the remuneration, fees and fees of doctors in public hospitals was particularly revealing. Mr Wabl has already pointed out that I will concentrate mainly on this issue. This report deals with the so-called special fees paid for the treatment of privately-additional patients in public hospitals by the health insurance system, especially to primary hospital departments. – Mrs Gredler! You are right to talk about a basic content for doctors, but there are, I believe, other negotiators. In my opinion, should You will have to deal with this with your standing representatives. Perhaps you could discuss this problem with them, because it is, as I believe, not the Court of Auditors' task. [[Abg. Dr Gredler: Eh not!]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! However, the reading of the report should make it clear to us all that it cannot be so badly ordered about our health care. Mr Wabl has already pointed out: The amounts of money earned there are partly truly stunning! The Court of Auditors has raised a large number of criticisms. I just want to get a few out of here today. Most notable of all is the amount of the special fees of some primarii – notable: without remuneration from other advisory activities, without any income from secondary employment, without income from private practice et cetera. The top merits of the internalists and surgeons were in some cases much more than 8 million schilling in 1994. – Dear to me Ladies and gentlemen! You've heard it right: well over 8 million schillings. This is not my claim, but the Court of Auditors has found that. However, top earners are also the laboratory doctors – their maximum earnings are 6.7 million schilling per year – and neurologists, but also pathologists. The amount of special charges is striking, but the fact that the benefits purchased by the supplementary health insurance for the privately insured patients are, in fact, largely provided by the hospital and less by the head of the department. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The Court of Auditors deems it necessary, on the one hand, to pay special charges from the hospital in question and, on the other hand, to pay a sufficient proportion of the special charges directly to that hospital. I believe that this recommendation by the Court of Auditors should be implemented as far as possible. As regards the transfer of a part of the special fees to the seconded doctors, senior doctors or doctors in training, the Court of Auditors found different conditions throughout Austria. The Court also draws attention to the fact that, for example, the special fee system rewards hospital hospitalisation financially, since a claim to a doctor's fee is primarily linked to the temporary admission in the special class. Another criticism: The doctors were also involved in health insurance in almost all federal states, which pays health insurance for the treatment of patients in the hospital hospital. The Court of Auditors has already recommended that this maladministration be stopped immediately since 1996. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I personally understand health policy to represent first the interests of the patients, and I believe that the health policy of the social democrats is aimed at it. – A good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e17010	I now give the floor to Mr Mag. Sweat the floor. 10 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e17031	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! A year ago, with a lot of pomp and trara, a "flag ship" was handed over to its destination, a leading project, the industrial company in the Objective 1 area of Burgenland: [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: Now he's reading from the press again!]] Lyocell-Holy Cross! The socialist grand had given enormous opening speeches and the future "introduced". [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: Don't be jealous!]] The jobs for the next few centuries were "secured" because this pilot project should lead to an "avalanche" of jobs. – Now, one year later, in the newspapers, one reads that Lyocell threatens the withdrawal of EU funds, retreading the market for the miracle fiber, sitting Lenzing in the funding trap, and so on and so on. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What is happening in Heiligenkreuz is a particularly significant example of the completely lenient settlement policy in our country, with which one can only waste taxpayers' money. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] 1.65 billion schillings were put into this project, another 700 million schillings in the industrial park where the plant is located – a total of 2.3 billion schillings for a plant that had to stand still for eight weeks now because the product that is being manufactured there doesn't want anyone! This miracle fiber doesn't want anyone! [[Abg. Madl: 500 jobs were destroyed in Upper Austria!]] This product should be produced in four support lines with a total annual production of 80 000 tonnes. The whole world market is ridiculously 20,000 tons, and the market share of Lyocell Heiligenkreuz is 15 percent. Ridiculous 3 000 tons have been sold on the market so far. The warehouses of the plant have been full for a long time, and the capacity of the warehouses is already full, so that there was only one way to stop the operation for a longer period of time and send the workers on vacation for eight weeks. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] You will now say: But there were many workers who got new jobs there! – Ladies and gentlemen! This total investment of almost 2.3 billion Schilling was 116 jobs and at the same time 500 jobs in Lenzing in Upper Austria were reduced. [[Abg. Madl: In Upper Austria!]] This is the economic policy pursued by SPÖ and ÖVP in 1996, 1997 and 1998! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Minister for Economic Affairs! In addition, this fiber is produced at extremely high cost. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Lenzing before Lassing!]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Farnleitner: You shouldn't say that!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: You're not supposed to say that? You're destroying jobs, pussing around the economy, you're not taking control of anything!]] The Court of Auditors has given me the opportunity to address the facts: For 45 s per kilogram, this fiber is currently produced, but only at a price of 28 s per kilogram – and that lies far away, it is only one idea that no one can fulfil – could you start something on the market with this fiber. [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: Current price: 98 S!]] Minister for Economic Affairs! Furthermore, there are massive processing problems when it comes to the sale of the fibre. It cannot be processed at the moment by the spinning mills. This is the SPÖ's economic policy! It was then presented large and powerful, which they did not move everything in our country! – A work has been sung and soundless within one year! [[Abg. Silhavy: We do!]] It is a shame to invest so much tax money in a flop! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Minister for Economic Affairs! I now come to the criticism of the Court of Auditors. [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: Schweitzer, you're business-damaging!]] Interestingly, the Court of Auditors has predicted everything. According to the Court of Auditors, public funds were awarded exclusively – Mr Peter Doppelmüller, listen once! – the relocation of an investment that should be made in Upper Austria to the Burgenland. Because naïve, incompetent politicians were given much too much funding, there was this completely idiotic shift to the Burgenland. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: You don't have any sales problems in Upper Austria?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Krammer.]] The Court of Auditors noted – this passage is interesting to you, Minister of Economic Affairs – the missing, the two federal states concerned and the federal government involved in the analysis of the overall economic and regional impact of the shift from productions or jobs caused by subsidies to jobs and disadvantages... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Krammer.]] Please, Christa, you really don't know yourself! I always let you talk, but now please don't. You're totally unneeded. Please, please! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Krammer: The Princehorn knows about the subsidies!]] The Court of Auditors, important for you and excellently recognized by the Court of Auditors, drew attention to the lack of industrial policy frameworks and a coordinated overall Austrian support approach. [[the speaker turns to Federal Minister Dr. Farnleitner]] – Perhaps you will work together with your officials to develop industrial policy frameworks and develop a coordinated overall Austrian support approach. Federal Minister! That would help many. But above all, such amateur-like business settlements as Lyocell-Holy Cross could not happen again. What has been produced under the head of state Stix in this case is as disastrous as it has not yet been. Your friend Stix has now become his "flagship" on his leg, which will pull him under the water surface of political existence.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e17282	The floor was reported as next Mr Dr. Lukesch. 8 minutes of time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e17303	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Minister for Economic Affairs! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schweitzer! I'm not going to address your enunciations to the lyocell plant, because there are more well-known Burgenländer. – Excuse me, but as a Tyrolean, I have the impression that you do not want economic support for the Burgenland. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Give me the funding money, we can do it very well in Tyrol and in other federal states. You've done a pretty bad job today. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusions of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] Ladies and gentlemen! So that no wrong impressions arise: I would like to address Mrs Apfelbeck, who is the deputy chairman of the Court of Auditors. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: That was unworthy of a professor!]] Mr Schweitzer! They are not a good judge who is able to judge the dignity of other people. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: You didn't think so!]] They unwittingly break the dignity of people into dirt, so I won't let you judge me. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: You didn't think!]] Mrs. Apfelbeck! I would like to say with all clarity: I have been sitting in the Court of Auditors for nine years now. The chapters to be discussed have always been selected in a consensus and, of course, taking into account the opposition's wishes. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: That's incredible!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] I do not agree with the right to address any other parts not discussed here in plenary. [[Call to the liberals: Oh, thank you!]] But you must not complain that we would have circumcised you in any way, because that does not correspond to the truth! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] What I do not understand is that you are attacking the Court of Auditors or the President of the Court of Auditors, claiming that he has not yet issued a Semmering Opinion, an audit report on this subject, and that he would therefore have caused the taxpayer several million – or as you have formulated – millions of additional costs or expenses each year. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Apple beck.]] The President of the Court of Auditors will answer it. The fact that the Court of Auditors is wasting money is, after all, a very arbitrary assumption, which has not yet been discussed. First of all, I strongly reject this claim for my party! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Wabl! I'm sorry, but I'm very interested in the truth – even if you called it a broken one today. They have played on the Standing Subcommittee. But what do you want? – There the competent national councils, the competent ministers, the decisive officials were questioned from all territorial levels. We have not – and I now declare this – invited the legal representatives of certain parties who have been given the right to be heard in the administrative court procedure. We have not invited any more former officials, either because of age or because of illness. I would also like to protect my group leader, Mr Wurmitzer: There is nothing against the questioning of the group of persons at all. Of course, we are interested in improving legislation because we receive valuable suggestions from the discussions – with or without the Court of Auditors – in the Court of Auditors. This is also the case with the Faculty of Mechanical Engineering, which is dealt with in the Court of Auditors' report and which has dealt with us in the Committee. Mrs Gredler has already referred to it in an extensive way, but I have to accuse her of a few omissions that have actually been made in the Committee. Of course: The Court of Auditors has spoken of some 180 million schillings of lost effort. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Now you go down!]] But he also said why this is so, because the project has been changed: from the Aspang grounds to the Donau-City. Therefore, the projecting work, planning work, financial studies, space-necessary studies et cetera for the aspang reasons of lost effort, including the basic delivery contributions of the ordering ministry. I do not at all understand that Mr Gredler criticises this from her point of view, namely the position of a liberal Member. That an orderly ministry, which, because of course, would block an alternative exploitation of such land by the claim to grow it for its own purposes, would very much like to have a strong access, but because of the basic provision contributions to the BIG is reduced to realities and in terms of possibilities, is a very sensible regulation which we have created in the BIG Act. In the course of these planning activities, it was found that the project would cost about three billion schilling, after redimensionaling 2.6 billion schilling. The Minister of Finance said: I can't pay for such a thing with normal budget resources. The Ministry of Science again heard that the BIG-Mites could not be afforded on the basis of such a high amount. Then came an alternative to this new project in Donau-City, on the record, from the 30-billion-shilling package with the city of Vienna, which was welcomed by the Technical University. Instead of three billion schilling – as once indicated – the costs for the federal government amounted to a billion schilling and, if the free-standing aspang grounds were used accordingly, 500 million schilling – in a redimensional form, of course, no question. Whether this project would be realized in Donau-City, this 180 million schilling would now be a lost effort or a prerequisite for finding a better and cheaper investment for the undoubtedly existing space needs of the Faculty of Mechanical Engineering of the Technical University, is an assessment question. I am looking for the relevant ministries – the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the Ministry of Science – to give this project a real priority. Only then, if not built in Donau-City, but perhaps resorted to a third project would that be a lost effort. But I am confident that the offer of the city of Vienna is valid and that it is a reasonable offer acceptable to our students and professors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e17450	Mr Mag. Firlinger is the next speaker. 6 minutes of time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e17472	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Federal Minister! High house! Before I dedicate myself to the ASFINAG chapter and the ASFINAG business practices, a word to Mr Lukesch. Mr Lukesch! I think you dreamed in the morning or were not asleep, at least you seem to have considerable memory gaps. You have made your speech here and you have said that you have always made sure that in the Committee on the Court of Auditors - especially in the Committee on the Court of Auditors! – take into account the wishes of the opposition. I should like to remind you of how you responded this morning, that is, not too long ago, when we Liberals presented you with a list of those people whom we would like to attend in the matter of Mautvignette. There was a patch, and then it was walled, then Col. Brix began to wall – we're used to it – then Mr. Wurmitzer said that it was not really necessary for so many people to be taught that they were unnecessary, they were only annoying, they didn't get anything new, nothing illustrious. [[Abg. Silhavy: That was actually the reverse! First of all, Mr Wurmitzer has spoken.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! This is your long-standing tactic of public coverage and walls in the Court of Auditors. That's not what's changed. That's their policy! I have to tell you. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I must also blame you for this policy which will ensure that essential concerns in the Committee on the Court of Auditors are simply not revealed, but thrown. They're just going over with the majority of the government of red and black. It's written to you in the main book. I'm not going to stop criticizing that. Ladies and gentlemen! But now some thoughts about the ASFINAG report. In my opinion, this is an annihilation of the Court of Auditors. Federal Minister! It is a report that has nothing to beautify. I believe that we have also discussed this in detail in committee. The Court of Auditors shall issue a disastrous witness to ASFINAG management, at least in the period up to 1986: lack of efficiency of the services, dispute of competence at all levels, lack of willingness to integrate, non-observation of control tasks, non-recognition, for example, what road companies have used, no evidence of resources used – but an unhindered self-service shop when it comes to waste disposal. The Executive Board and the Supervisory Board are working in a secondary position, but with an ordinary Gage. AsFINAG employees receive balance sheet payments, receive success premiums, although far and wide no success is visible, and so on. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a state picture drawn by the Court of Auditors about the ASFINAG, a moral image also about a society, about a company that, in fact, nobody wants and nobody needs. Let me say this with all the clarity. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] No one needs the ASFINAG, or if you need the ASFINAG, you don't need the road special companies, or you don't need the Austrian Federal Finance Agency, Mr. Federal Minister, because there are a lot of double tracks, which was also shown very impressively in the report. In the ASFINAG there is a management that has been for two or three years, that the Federal Finance Agency takes over the competence on financing and says: That's how it's going! Instead, ASFINAG makes foreign currency operations that go into pants, foreign currency transactions, which are markedly muttered with double interest rate and foreign exchange swaps, because not the right professionals were working. Federal Minister! What bothers me so much is that all of this remains without consequences for so many years. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] In 1992 – which is also to be read in the report – it appears that red and black – in the case of the liberals it was the case before – the first political doubt was whether the solution with the ASFINAG was the right way. [[Abg. Swimmling: At that time, you were a liberal!]] . I don't have so much time, Mr. Colleague, to be able to answer you now. In 1992 the first doubts were also expressed by the Ministry of Economic Affairs, and then it took five years to change the structures in the ASFINAG. [[Abg. Wabl: The Rosenstingl would be a good financial advisor!]] Ladies and gentlemen! It's just a sign of poverty. I am sorry to have to tell you that with these words, but there is nothing to beautify, it is a witness of poverty in this Republic. It is a failure in your place of business, Mr Federal Minister, and that is one reason why we believe that your days are actually counted as economic ministers.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e17552	Mr Silhavy. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for his excellent report. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e17573	Mr President. Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! Mr Firlinger, you should not concentrate so much on the pity of the people in charge of the information, but rather you should thank us for being serious about it, for: If I remember my time in the Court of Auditors' Committee, I think that you have called dead people, and that is not exactly the best thing. [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Court of Auditors, in its follow-up to the 1996 Activity Report, criticises that the objectives of the School Book Action have been increasingly missed after initial success. This was also confirmed by Minister Bartenstein in the Committee's debate. He had to admit that the rate of supply fell from 85 per cent in 1994/95 to 75 per cent and 76 per cent in the 1996/97 school year. A goal of reorganising the School Book Action should also be to increase the degree of supply. We Socialists and Socialists have explicitly noted in this reorganisation that ownership must remain with the individual pupils and in the voluntary sector. Appreciation of the respective student or student must be whether they want to pass on or pass on the books. I have to say to the press that this will obviously cannot be guaranteed by the competent ministers, Bartenstein and Gehrer. I fear that we will have to deal with this problem even more intensively in this House. On the question of the antitrust situation, the Federal Minister in the Committee said that he wanted to refer to the particular importance of the Austrian Schoolbook. In this context, I would like to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs to come to my agreement, I welcome the Secretary of State for this, that the production of the Austrian schoolbook by highly qualified Austrian workers in the printing sector should also be carried out, because, finally, some 4,000 to 6 000 jobs are secured by this sector. Mrs. Apfelbeck! In principle, it should be stressed that only 2% of FLAF is spent on the School Book Action, and this increase in schoolbooks is well below the consumer price index. You use your usual interpretation of numbers, which is always overly saddened, except in the case of the finances of the liberals. Federal Minister Bartenstein is not here, but the family spokesperson of the ÖVP is here: I would ask you, perhaps, to act on the Federal Minister, that he should not put ideological ideas on the back of the students by destroying a proven measure such as the school book action. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It would be better to carry out its current tasks instead of carrying out non-existent or non-existent surpluses in alms. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: Stay with your social rights! You know better than that!]] Mr President-in-Office of the Council. I am always a little surprised at the perception, as the Court of Auditors sees its tasks. You, Mr President of the Commission, have stated in the Committee that you have not hidden the political agreement on the maintenance and further development of benefits in kind. I am surprised at the Court of Auditors' consideration of the reorganisation of this system of cash benefits, which we discussed at the Committee's meeting. It cannot be the task of the Court of Auditors to question political will-building, but rather it must be his task to review the implementation of efficiency and achievement of objectives. I agree, however, that you too have come to the conclusion in your report that, in the event of a cash benefit, it is not possible to control the use which is appropriate and therefore the achievement of the politically express objective which is not understandable. I believe that this knowledge calls on us to consider, in other areas too, whether the target group is not better achieved by a greater return to benefits in kind. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e17640	The next honourable Member is Mr Magistrate. Steindl. 8 minutes of time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e17661	Mr President! High house! I would like to begin with a positive statement. I am now working in the Court of Auditors' Committee for the fourth year, and I believe that many chapters are being discussed in great detail and are being examined and assessed differently by the political groups, as it is part of a proper discussion. Two things negatively affect me: On the one hand, certain topics are pre-empted by the media. Sometimes we get the press release before the colleague or colleague of the committee has spoken about it. One can then understand exactly whether he or she renders it literally or whether there are deviations. Secondly, We invite a lot of people to do this, I would like to expressly say. However, I have often experienced that people who were invited did not speak at all. I am thinking, for example, of the Federal Army. That's where we invited senior officers, nine officers were when I remember correctly. None of them then came to speak. These are, of course, things that I think should be avoided. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] The Lenzing case. This is the area I have dealt with in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. The report contains almost 15 pages. There were already difficulties in the run-up to this audit because Bank Austria refused the audit. The Constitutional Court then finally decided that the Court of Auditors was nevertheless responsible. Mr Schweitzer has only taken part in this Court of Auditors report. It is not only about the lyocell plant in Heiligenkreuz, but also about Lenzing. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] The question is that there have been many disproportionateities in the staff sector. I say that, and I have already stressed this in one speech: Such irregularities could not happen in a private company! [[Abg. May. Sweitzer: That's where the SPÖ has his fingers inside!]] If you read these Court of Auditors reports, you can see again and again that such things are more commonplace in close-to-state enterprises: Too high board fees, different grants – interestingly, only with the senior employees, not with the simple employees! – and the holiday offal you have already mentioned, Karl Schweitzer. [[Intrusions of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] But I would also like to stress something else. No one has responded to foreign participations. Karl Schweitzer! You've been excited about the investments in Burgenland. For example, I have not heard anything about the investment in a viscose fibre plant in America of around 670 million schilling; Reflow: probably zero. I have not heard any criticism on the part of the Freedom Party. It's just about the Burgenland. I would already like to say that we must stick to the truth. Karl! If you are honest, you must admit that much more is behind it than just the criticism of Lenzing and the company. If you look at the problem of the Lyocell work of Heiligenkreuz, you can see that many criticisms are true, but many others are not. [[Abg. May. Sweitzer: Everything!]] - No, that's half-truths in part. You can't just say yes or no. Certain accusations are justified, you can discuss them. Let's go through this. The accusation number one: the location discussion. The President-in-Office of the Council also supported the arguments in the Committee. There are facts about this, and we really have to look at every argument. Why did the Burgenland exist or why did politicians insist that the Lyocell plant be built in Heiligenkreuz? – Because, as Southburgerland, you know that as a Southburger parliamentarian, what is happening to the economy is much lower than the Austrian average. It has become Objective 1 area because it does not even meet about 75 percent of the Austrian GDP average. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Despite 30 years of "overtaking trail"! Despite 30 years of social policy!]] Karl Schweitzer! That's where you'll give me the right. If the EU, by the federal government, has available funds – and the country has also had to invest there, otherwise it would not have supported the federal government and the EU – then simply try to invest in economically weak regions, even if the implementation under the rule does not create additional jobs. [[Demonstratel accompaniment of the abg. Dr. Krammer]] [[Intrusions of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] You have to say that fairly. Keywords Pendler: 18 percent of the commuters are weekly commuters. These are only at home on the weekend. Why? – Because there are no jobs in the south of Burgenland and because there is no infrastructure. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Despite 30 years of socialists!]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: 30 years of "overtaking trail!"]] In the district of Güssing, for example, there is not even a railway! [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Despite 30 years of socialists!]] The most necessary infrastructure is missing. It is therefore legitimate to create an infrastructure in Heiligenkreuz, to set up a commercial park, an economic park, and to set up control plants there. That's what it meant. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: 30 years of "overtaking trail!"]] We of the ÖVP have also said: Yes, we need in Burgenland not only in industry, industry, but also in tourism. And many of these control companies work as well. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: For example?]] Some don't stop. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Now to promote. Clearly, it can be said that the promotion is too high – set aside on the created jobs. But that's the only way you can't see it again. Let's stick to the truth! Mr Schweitzer! Look at the Lyocell technology! I am not a defender of this work with God, but we have already experienced enough flaws and evil surprises when we, for example in the textile sector, have invested in personal-intensive businesses. What was the result? – They passed for a few years and then they emigrated. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Where is the Research and Development Department? Is she in Burgenland?]] Dear Karl Schweitzer! This time we have said that we are not investing in personal-intensive areas, but in technology, in high-tech. All experts continue to say that this product is a technically sophisticated product. That's what all the experts say! [[Complementary of the Abg. Dr. Krammer.]] You have to see this in the relationship. This milkmaid bill, namely to say on one hand, 123 jobs have been created – or 116, I correct myself – while on the other side 500 have been lost, gives a false picture. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: 116!]] Mr Schweitzer! You have to read the Court of Auditors' report. It clearly states that personal or operational advice has been carried out and that there have been proposals – even before the work is built – that one must rationalize in Lenzing. I could say a lot more about that. I also prepared myself accordingly. I would just like to conclude by saying: We stand at this plant, we stand at this head office. We don't make any child care, because we have a political responsibility. But we demand loyalty to the contract. At Lenzing, we demand that Lyocell fulfil what has been agreed with the EU: not 500 jobs or 600 jobs, but ultimately the creation of 200 jobs. - That's what we call for. We demand that this fibre be applied more aggressively on the market. We also demand that we be informed accordingly if there is a change of ownership. We have always said that, and we are still standing on this project. I would not have spoken on this subject at all. However, since Mr Brix has so stressed – I have heard such a thing so clearly from the SPÖ for the first time – that you, Mr Brix – and I assume the whole SPÖ Group – are standing in the Court of Auditors to Pragmatize the officials: In this respect, let us meet with the Secretary of State. His employees have developed their own law, and experts believe it is a modern law. We're not supposed to fail! Let's get together. For the benefit of these officials, let us do so accordingly. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e17857	Mr Edler, you are the next speaker. 5 minutes speaking time. – Please
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e17876	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Today's discussion focused on the comments on the Court of Auditors' report, on the addition to the ASFINAG. – I too would like to comment briefly on this. Of course, the main criticisms that we have debated in the Committee on the Court of Auditors are very long and thorough, and we have also received real information from this committee. I believe that control took place during the period before the reform, from October to December 1996. However, the Court of Auditors' report also refers to the time after the outsourcing and the real new structure. If Mr Wurmitzer has now mentioned that the ÖVP is for the merger of both companies, the ASAG and the ÖSAG, I certainly welcome that. Because what happened to many societies that were not coordinated at the time must not be repeated. Ladies and gentlemen! We have discussed in recent months the need for future governments to have their own infrastructure ministry – we have discussed this in many coalition negotiations – but we have never been able to agree. It is a wishful proposal from me and many of my colleagues. We could certainly save a lot with that. To mention something new about this: Colleague Applebeck has addressed the Semmering Base Tunnel Railway. Today, for the road part, the first flooring was carried out. If we had solved these common transport tasks, important for our country and for Europe as a whole, and had planned and built rail and road together, then there would certainly not be the present problems. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Who prevented this? As far as I remember, you've been in government since 1970!]] But that is a wish for the future, and I think it is a realistic wish. Ladies and gentlemen! The Minister for Economic Affairs is no longer here. However, I would like to say in general terms, Mr Wurmitzer, that unfortunately it is not in such a way that the ASFINAG is currently financially well equipped. The funds that, as planned, should have been spent by truck-road pricing from 1998 onwards have not been met, and therefore we currently have great difficulties with the closure of road gaps or the construction of absolutely necessary detour roads. I would like to address this as Wiener: I am of course in favour of the expansion of public transport, but this alone will not create it. We need to address and demand in the main region of Vienna, in the eastern region – as well as Carinthia, Styria and the western states – as well as bypass roads, the so-called Northeast Spange or Northeast Passage. This is urgently necessary. The reports on the south-east tangents can be heard daily: The traffic there is 180 000 vehicles in 24 hours! The road is totally blocked, there is a traffic collapse every day. The Austrian Economic Area is at risk. Economic exchange with the reform countries seeking to join the EU is already taking place more and more. That is why we must take precautions in this area, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is vital that we consider how to provide the ASFINAG financially if we do not find a solution to the truck-road pricing beforehand. In this context too, we are talking about thousands of jobs! It is about the fact that we have more employees in principle. There are industry problems. And especially in the construction and construction industries, there are many impulses for other areas. I therefore believe that we must work together so that we can also obtain these funds. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e17917	The next speaker is Mr Stampler. Time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e17936	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! I believe, in principle, at the outset, that the achievement of the objectives of the School Book Action, which was introduced in 1972/73, should be seen as positive. Before I refer to the content of the Court of Auditors' report, I would like to say how important and essential this action is for our children. The provision of knowledge is an important contribution to the training of our youth. The ÖVP insists that every student, regardless of his financial situation, should be in possession of the books and thus in the enjoyment of education. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, the Court of Auditors' report clearly shows that the cost of this schoolbook action has been steadily increasing over the last few years. Thus, from the school year 1972/73, the effort from the family compensation fund went from 567 million schilling to the school year 1996/97 to 1.2 billion schilling. One reason for this is certainly the increase in the cost of paper prices and in the graphical trade. Also curriculum changes made new requirements necessary. The number of titles rose from 1 050 in 1972/73 to 3 300 in 1995/96. One of the criticisms in the report was the high cost of managing the School Book Action and the supposedly lack of control. In view of this, I believe that the implementation of the School Book Action is designed in such a way that there is sufficient number of material from the ordering of the books to the redemption of the School Book Instructions in order to monitor the legality of the execution of the School Book Action. The 1998 School Book Reform facilitated organisational processes, allowing staff resources to be used for other things. As noted in the Court of Auditors' report, the handling of the discount currency by the school accounters slowed down time, resulting in interest losses being incurred by the Ministry. In the context of the new contracts to be negotiated with the book trade, it was therefore appropriate to redefine with regard to the 1998 School Bookbook Reform. From the school year 1998/99, the prices of the books were reduced by 6.5 percent, resulting in a reduction in the cost of the school book action to the extent of the previous book discount. However, it no longer has to be recalculated retroactively, which eliminates interest losses. In addition, a sales-dependent quantity discount for school book dealers with sales of more than 5 million schilling has been negotiated, which will mean an increase in the budget by around 10 million schillings for the school book action. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Books are knowledge, and knowledge is valuable. It is therefore important to teach children responsible handling of books in early years. It does not have to stow every textbook in a corner at the end of the school year or land in the dung dome. In view of the cost development of the last few years that I have mentioned, and also given the educational effect, the EIAP is clearly a future combination of new and used teaching materials, under the motto: As much property as possible, as much recycling as necessary. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I think that this system could work, as follows: The School Conference shall determine the teaching resources necessary for the coming school year. The School Forum and the School Community Committee, bodies where parents, pupils, teachers and pupils have a right of participation, then decide which school books will be sent to reuse or whether and which teaching materials will be purchased at the school at their own choice. This will help parents and students to become aware of their ability to design and learn how to improve the facilities of all pupils without any financial additional burden through careful use of teaching equipment. The "New School Book Action" has created new ways: on the one hand, the establishment of modern school libraries, on the other hand a meaningful reuse of school books, thirdly, an improvement of the equipment with teaching equipment and fourthly an equipment with more alternative teaching equipment and thus more flexibility in their selection. Thus, the way is free for a modern pedagogy. At the same time, this new schoolbook action facilitates schools, which is to reduce the burden of execution in the area of financial country management and a package of parental restraint. Finally, the objectives of this new schoolbook action: Ensuring sufficient care for all pupils, raising the reuse and thus improving the quality of school books, more autonomy for the schools when choosing, no increase in the schoolbook budget of currently 1.2 billion schilling, less bureaucracy and no increase in parental restraint. That is why I say – and that is what I stand for: The School Book Action is important. It is an irreplaceable contribution to the comprehensive education of our children. It must, however, be associated with education to deal responsibly with books.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e18007	Mrs Binder. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e18025	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to give some thought to the Court of Auditors' audit report on the school book action, which has also made my previous speaker the subject of his speech and stressed in its importance. The Court of Auditors has identified some problems in its introduction to the report: the deterioration of the supply, the fact that the cost of teaching staff was disproportionately high and the lack of restrictive provisions increased the supply of school books. It was found that the implementation of the School Book Action could be changed. Mr Stampler has already pointed out the objectives of the School Book Action. Some of the points I would like to mention in addition are the financial relief of families in Austria, equal opportunities for all pupils and the reduction of social barriers to education. In its conclusions, the Court of Auditors considers that, in view of the complex procedure for the implementation of the School Book Action, changes in the system would have to be considered. Ladies and gentlemen! A motion for a resolution was adopted in December 1997 which contained the School Book Action and which made a confession to it. It should be noted that the total amount of the family tax compensation fund currently accounts for 1.2 billion schilling for school books is rather smaller. It should also be noted that, as the index has increased over the past 25 years, the increase in resources for the school book action is only a very small increase. There was a system change. Their effects show press releases from yesterday. It says: "In my class, we have to go for books. – Our teacher just dropped the history books. - I won't get my books until October. – Thus, throughout Austria, students were annoyed about the chaotic conditions around their schoolbooks at the AKS school's emergency call." – So much for the press releases. Ladies and gentlemen! For me, it is nevertheless clear that the School Book Action is a very essential and important family policy and education policy contribution. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is why I cannot follow the Court of Auditors' idea or proposal on the conversion of benefits into cash benefits.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e18078	Mrs Dr. Moser-Starrach is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e18096	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Silhavy! Mrs. Binder! I know the APA broadcast. I know that every year at the beginning of school, "chaos theories" will be conjured up to the schoolbook. But the situation is not that way. I have called and experienced 18 colleagues in Tyrol, two in Salzburg and three in Styria, it's all in the best order. I myself, as you know, am an absolute opponent of benefits in kind. They have just brought us to the edge of the feasibility and have increased the addiction accordingly. I am therefore absolutely in agreement with what the Court of Auditors has been calling for for years to convert the benefits in kind into cash benefits. I think that would be much more useful. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, I myself would like to comment on the references, fees and fees of doctors to public hospitals. The Court of Auditors recommended three essential things in its report. First: The Special Fees Section would be regulated in the Federal Hospitals Act, the different national distribution arrangements between senior and subordinate doctors would, as far as possible, be harmonised, and a entitlement to a fee would be set exclusively against the legal entity in order to avoid financial dependence between employees. Second claim from the Court of Auditors: The basic salaries of a new salary scheme should ensure adequate remuneration for all doctors. The remuneration of the medical staff would be contested by the institution's revenue. The immediate dependence of health care professionals on the special class patients would have to be eliminated. Third claim: The doctor's participation in the ambulance fees would be abandoned in the future. A few thoughts about the special charges: The Court's recommendations are contrary to the country's wish for subsidiarity. The hospitals of the countries have so far been free to conduct, in addition to the management of the general fee class, up to a quarter of the total beds as a special class. There was a framework agreement between the hospitals and the doctors entitled to pay. It provided for home charges and charges to the subordinate doctors. Salzburg, Carinthia and Styria already have a special fees fee. The institution shall take up the costs and distribute them to the senior physician, to subsequent medical and non-medical staff and even to a fund, training and social affairs. In other federal states, on the other hand, the institution does not want to intervene in the sensitive relationship between the doctor and the patient, and individual regulations are provided for. My federal state has been in Tyrol since 1. It was even its own national law on this subject on July 30, 1998. The new provisions led to a consensusal agreement and precise distribution keys between institutions and senior doctors, to fees in the special class and to the allocation or the claim for fees for academic and non-medical staff, but also to a transparent conduct between the doctors entitled to pay and the agents' remunerates. I therefore see a very positive response to the Court of Auditors' recommendations in the adoption of this amendment to the Tyrolean Hospital Law. On the pay scheme. For the public, it may always look like rabies of injustice or of the board of directors or primary doctors, if top doctors who are recognized worldwide also have top-ranking incomes. The fact is that the possibility of special charges has always been included in the basic salaries. That is to say, in the clear text, that the salaries do not, from the outset, correspond to the training of our doctors, their responsibility and the scope of their only too often life-saving activities and arrangements, but that the expected special charges are included in their salaries from the outset. Ladies! Gentlemen! If a doctor fulfils his performance profile when quality and performance of his activity are in agreement with the public order, if he is accountable to the institution for the costs of the infrastructure used and compensates for any difficulties and grey areas, if he has compensated the subsequent medical and non-medical staff or has made agreements with them, then his acquisition is fully justified. In addition, there is also a great advantage for the hospitals themselves, as they have more revenue and can thereby afford more. This is absolutely acceptable in the sense of self-responsibilities, competence and correct execution. A final word on self-responsibility: The freedom of the individual ceases where the freedom of the other is restricted. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: When the freedom of the neighbor is circumcised!]] We have good public health in Austria. We spend 170 billion schilling for this, 8 percent of gross domestic product. We are not talked about in the car purchase or the junk food consumption. Our consumer society has a wide range of offers, not health care. Free offers, such as the valuable mother-child passport or health examinations, are only slowed down. But higher incomes and higher levels of education should be a prerequisite for developing more interest in one's own health! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Health is not all, but without health everything is nothing, said Schopenhauer. And everyone wants to reach a high age. But what is a high age if quality of life is not correct? On this occasion, I should like to pass on the wish of an EU-wide group on health care, which is currently meeting in Igls: to install a body in Austria where all studies in the field of health are coordinated and evaluated. Or: What is the name of the slogan of the pharmacists who are responsible for our healthy development? – Competent, active and indispensable as our own responsibility for health!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e18144	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e18165	Mr President. Dear gentlemen on the government bank! High house! The ASFINAG, founded in 1982 as a central financing facility for motorway and expressway facilities, has truly been relatively successful for more than a decade. That is why the Court of Auditors is quite right in its criticism. However, the Infrastructural Finance Act in 1997 adjusted the structures, and the ÖVP-College Wuritzer is right if he believes that society is now working efficiently and successfully. This efficient and successful ASFINAG has already set up a budget of 270 million for 1999 and 270 million for 2000. It is about the most important Styrian road project at all, ladies and gentlemen, about the second tube of the Plabusch tunnel. First calls have already been made. And what's missing now? – The green light from Minister of Economic Affairs Farnleitner is missing. I very much regret that this week, the Minister of the Interior is already seriously harassed by criticism, but I cannot spare him this criticism: Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister is very kind in this regard. It is urgently necessary that green light is given for the second tube of the Plabusch tunnel. There are currently more than 20,000 vehicles moving there every day on the other side of the road. That's a huge danger potential! And what about the maintenance? – If work in the tunnel is necessary, there will be a traffic infarction in the Greater Graz area. That is why I appeal to you, Minister Farnleitner: Do something for the people in Styria, for the people in the Greater Graz area! Make the way clear for the second tunnel tube in the Plabusch, and speed up!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e18201	The next speaker is Mr Sauer. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e18220	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to deal briefly with Lenzing AG in connection with the Court of Auditors' report. My previous speakers have addressed this issue in detail. I would just like to mention the criticism, but also the positive one that the Court of Auditors has put out. The Court of Auditors criticised business policy. He made some comments on this and gave suggestions on it. The Court of Auditors also identified the rationalisation programme and the location question. It has also taken a very close look at foreign holdings and has found in these investments that some funds have not been properly implemented. The Court of Auditors also mentioned the volume of funding and examined it. The Court of Auditors has noted as positive that the environmental requirements issued by the authorities have been largely implemented. A waste incineration plant has been built, a wastewater treatment plant has been developed, and the eco-balance sheet has also been drawn up on a regular basis. The Court of Auditors criticized staff policy. In conclusion, the conclusions of the Court of Auditors report recommend the following: firstly, to use the rationalisation possibilities in the internal performance, production and administration sector accordingly, secondly to separate the individual business areas at the Lenzing site, thirdly to improve the development of cooperations or partnerships, fourthly to strengthen the product-specific security of the Lenzing site on a wider basis and fifthly to rethink or reorganise the continuation of the globalisation strategy. As a non-legislative Member, I am grateful for the fact that the Court of Auditors, in many areas, gives us extensive material in its reports, enabling us to gain insight into the various areas, not only into the conduct of various companies but also into the industry of the country. I am confident that Lenzing AG will also have the future if it implements the Court of Auditors' recommendations.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e18263	The President of the Court of Auditors is now speaking. Please, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e18281	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! A significant part of the Court of Auditors' supplementary report for the year 1996 is covered by medical fees. There has been a very detailed and very controversial debate in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, but, as I think, it has been at a very high level. Today, in the course of the plenary debate, this very delicate problem has again been addressed by several speakers. I would also like to make it clear here in plenary from the Court of Auditors what it is about in connection with the medical fees. It is not a question of taking away something or raising the need for a complex of envy, but of actually complying with the rules laid down in the Constitution or the Federal Law on Principles. For, as the Court of Auditors has found in its cross-sectional audit in Austria, there are a number of countries in which the principles laid down in the Basic Law are not complied with. That is to say, there are a number of national laws that are not in line with the Federal Law of Principle. In this connection, the Court of Auditors is concerned that contracts are concluded only between patients and lawyers, and not between doctors and patients, as is the case in some countries, which is not in conformity with the principle of law. I believe that it should also be this House's concern to do everything possible to ensure that there is a uniform system across Austria, which is also in line with the principles of modern pay; and the highest principle of modern pay is that of fair performance. In the Court of Auditors' view, it is not comprehensive, and it therefore believes that there are changes in this context. It should only be possible to claim the claim of the individual doctor against his/her lawyer. There should be only one claim from the individual doctor against the lawyer and not from the patient. In addition, the Court of Auditors - and this is also very clearly reflected in its report - has encouraged a fair distribution of fees between primary doctors on the one hand and the subordinate doctors on the other hand and has been included in its final recommendations. I believe that the Court of Auditors' legitimate concern. In any case, they are legitimate recommendations, and all those who are active in health care and can assert their influence there should help you to comply with these recommendations. I should like to thank a number of speakers from all the political groups for having verbally taken up these recommendations from the Court of Auditors in the debate today, and I see the first step in implementing them. Mrs Apfelbeck! In connection with the Court of Auditors' report on the Semmering Base Tunnel, they have criticised the Court of Auditors that this report has not yet been submitted to the National Council. It's, of course, right: The report is not yet available to the National Council. However, I can give an explanation of why he has not yet been present. The Court of Auditors sent the audit result to four audited bodies in the first half of March of this year in order to obtain the opinions provided for in the Constitution from these four audited bodies. The period of the opinion shall not exceed three months, as provided for in the Constitution. If we were to charge three months from March onwards, the opinions would have been due at the latest in the middle of June or during the first half of June. In fact, one of these four bodies to which the report has been sent for opinion has far exceeded this deadline, which is a total of seven weeks, and that is why this opinion has only been delivered to the Court of Auditors on the last day of July. After that, the Court of Auditors had to give up its opposition. It is only then, when the counter-existence has been given, that it can proceed to the constitution of the report for the National Council. With regard to the seven weeks covered by this audited body, the entire audit activity of the Court of Auditors or reporting by the Court of Auditors has been delayed. I should therefore like to draw attention to the communications you have now received to the fact that it is not in the light of the Court of Auditors' concern that this report has not yet been forwarded to the National Council. [[Intercession with the liberals.]] Deputies! There were four jobs. There is not one of these four posts that could comment on this today. I should therefore like to ask for an understanding of the fact that I do not call it a job. It was one of these four audited bodies. [[Call to the liberals: When does he come?]] - I'm married. We are working quickly on this, Madam Members, and you can be assured that we are also interested in presenting this report to the National Council as quickly as possible. [[New call for intercession with the liberals.]] [[Call at the SPÖ: Do we have a question hour?]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) As for the duration of the audit by the Court of Auditors, I can carry out the following: The test itself took not one year, but much shorter. In connection with the subsequent preparation of the audit reports, about – but not quite – a year has come to an end. It must be borne in mind, however, that this test, namely that concerning the Semmering base tunnel, was not a normal case. As far as the time dimension is concerned, this examination was very deep down into the past and has raised a whole series of complex questions, which I do not want to carry out more closely now, because I can assume them as well-known. In addition, this was explicitly desired in the mandate given to us, alternatives should also be examined or the corresponding opinions should be submitted by the Court of Auditors. I should like to point out that, taking all these facts into account, I believe - and I have an experience in this regard - that the duration of the examination and the preparation of the audit results by the audit team of the Court of Auditors is not unusually long. On the question of when the report can be drawn up, I would like to point out once again that during the last months the final outcome is no longer in the hands of the Court of Auditors or is no longer exclusively in its hands, because, understandably, other bodies are also obliged to deliver an opinion, and hence from the time when the Court of Auditors will no longer have a direct influence on the timing of the audit results. Now that these opinions are in place, he can do it again, and I can assure you once again: We are working on it and are going to present the report. In the course of this debate, several speakers addressed the School Book Action or, in so far as criticism of the Court's proposals, proposals and findings has been expressed as very clear that the Court of Auditors' recommendations cannot be followed. This is nothing new for the Court of Auditors. It always happens that his recommendations are not, or are not, immediately taken up. However, it also notes more often that its recommendations do not at the moment find a majority, but that in the course of time a higher understanding and the recommendations will be implemented. However, in the context of the Court of Auditors' recommendations on the School Book Action, I should like to say that the Court of Auditors has more or less agreed on the legitimacy to criticise the current system or legislation to draw up new recommendations. I would like to point out, in principle, that, and this is clearly stated in the report, there should be no doubt as to the fact that the school book action is supported by all political groups and that it has never called into question the Court of Auditors. But what he has found is that, compared with the date on which the School Book Action was introduced, the framework conditions did not necessarily change. Examples of this include higher school autonomy, which did not exist at the time, or the process which has been much more complex or more progressive than originally, and similar. In view of the change in the framework and the fact that all the State's activities are under the guidelines of the savings package, one has to be clear about this, the Court of Auditors has considered how to find a more cost-effective solution. The Court of Auditors was quite clear that, particularly in connection with the school book action, all positions are somehow politically occupied and that it is therefore of course not harmless if the Court of Auditors takes up some position or perhaps takes a position which could be occupied politically thereafter. It has therefore, as far as alternatives have been concerned, put forward its proposals with the necessary caution, and the Court of Auditors' division in this regard is a very careful one. It reads: It is intended to rethink the procedure for the provision of teaching equipment to pupils. In this respect, the Court of Auditors also considered the medium-term conversion from property to cash benefits. In addition, in this medium-term change from property to cash benefits, the Court of Auditors has listed the advantages and disadvantages, as it has seen them, in order not to give the impression that it wants to develop a black and white painting. He has listed seven benefits and five disadvantages. In view of these twelve arguments, partly against the suggestion made by him, I do not seem to be entirely permitted to take out a single argument, namely a counterargument, and thus to counter-check the Court's views. This is a procedure which I do not think is adequate, especially with regard to the objective presentation of the Court of Auditors, which has itself listed advantages and disadvantages. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Mrs Silhavy! Of course you are free to make a weighting. That's quite clear. Of course! [[Call the SPÖ: But this is very generous!]] But I just think that the Court of Auditors cannot accept such a weighting. I hope I did not misunderstand you in this regard. We are both on the advantages we have shown, on the disadvantages, and on the idea that a rethinking of the situation could take place. Madam President, you have also stated that the Court of Auditors must check compliance with the policy guidelines. That's right, I'm going to be in full conformity with you. Only: What are the policy guidelines for the School Book Action? – It is about – and we all agree on this, namely all political groups as well as the Court of Auditors – to provide students with schoolbooks cost-effective and sufficient. That is, the goal that we all have in mind is one and is the same for all. The question is: What is the most appropriate way to achieve this objective and the most gentle for taxpayers? . Madam Members, this is not a criticism of the goal to be achieved, but rather an alternative: an alternative way to achieve this goal, which you too want to achieve, more cost-effectively. The Court of Auditors' legitimacy to show such a new, different way as an alternative is somewhat undisputed, nationally and internationally. That is why the Court of Auditors cannot accept this, which is why it cannot be restricted, because the scope for it to show more cost-effective alternatives would otherwise be completely limited. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In this context, I would also like to stress that, when the Court of Auditors makes such recommendations, it is clear that it can trigger political reflections; that is not its intention, but it may well be. It would, however, be a very impotent Court of Auditors, which, as soon as it is able to accept or expect such political reflections, has been prevented from bringing its recommendations to paper, if it considers them to be correct. A Court of Auditors, which is afraid of political reflections, is not in place. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: This reflection was surprising for you!]] – This reflection was not surprising, but we did not let it turn us away from the conviction of the correctness of our recommendation. We shall not be prevented from holding this recommendation. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I also think it is very important that not only the President of the Court of Auditors cannot be prevented, but also that the officials of the Court of Auditors cannot be prevented by such political reflections. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) You could help to ensure that the officials also have the certainty that what has been said today, by the way, by a speaker in your group, in practice, they are aware of its implementation, namely that, in the context of all the ideas and proposals that are now being made by professional civil servants and contract staff law, they are being made clear to the officials of the Court of Auditors that professional civil servants are safeguarded in order to ensure that no one of them is afraid of being held responsible in any way to the extent that he would be affected by the conduct of his duties. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is precisely by expressing praise to the officials of the Court of Auditors today by all the political groups in this House that I see myself impelled and also strengthened in my will to point this out before this House – I have done so several times – that it is still necessary to discharge an obligation to the officials of the Court of Auditors. This is a resolution which is now 50 years old, which has been decided here in this House and which mentions the granting of a special benefit to the Court of Auditors as a special allowance. There is, as the speakers have already said in this debate, a written bill which takes account of the demands of the Court of Auditors and which would also mean the fulfilment of this resolution. I can conclude with the following words: If the praise expressed to the Court of Auditors today by the political groups in this House was serious, I would ask the Court of Auditors to demonstrate this to the Court of Auditors, with the maintenance of professional civil servants in the Court of Auditors and with the creation of a Court of Auditors' Service Act.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e18384	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Gaßner. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e18414	Mr President! Mr State Secretary! After this – at least it happened to me – I would like to look at the topic of the planning and expansion of the TU Vienna once again, not quite appropriate headwashing regarding our reflections on the school book action; a topic where I have been treated twice: on the one hand, when I got to read that 1919 the aspang reasons were purchased to get there the k.u.k. Technical university to be established. I am now saving myself the loss of this time story for time - this has already been done by Mrs Gredler for me - but I would like to continue with the years 1995/96. There came to the Aspang grounds another, second project, namely the project Donau-City. This project has been speculated a little. Mr Lukesch! You have already pointed out the cost advantages of this smaller project. One reason for this reduction is also an agreement with TU Graz, which could lead to a decentralisation of the university offer, which is in principle acceptable, because I do not think everything has to be concentrated in Vienna. In the discussion in the Court of Auditors, consideration was also given to the fact that the city of Vienna provides the ground and the necessary infrastructure for free. All this – seen in a synergistic context with a technology center planned by the city of Vienna on the Danube Plate – would speak for this location. The Court of Auditors summarises in its report and, I quote, says: Planning on the Aspang grounds should continue and a comprehensive cost-benefit assessment should be carried out and the financing ensured before a decision is taken for the Donau-City site. – If I consider how long this infinite history has taken, and given the importance of university research and development in the technology field, this recommendation does not seem to me to be quite optimal. However, when I was looking for information about the project Donau-City on a press release by the Vienna Deputy Mayor Görg from 18th century. August this year, I felt transferred to the present for the second time. I found the following statements: To the Technology Center: At the beginning of September 1998, the construction negotiations for the Technology Center, the Spatenstichtung November/December will take place. – Well, that would have been the technology center discussed once. A little further down, it's called the Architects Competition TU – Mechanical Engineering Faculty: The foundation of a company between BIG and WED, the construction company for the Department of Mechanical Engineering at TU, was completed in early 1998, and the spatial and functional programme was completed in February 1998. - Then it goes on to say: In July, two-stage competition was launched across the EU. This is then described even more precisely. Finally, it states: The completion of the competition in January 1999, possible start of construction in 2000. It should be noted that the debate in the Court of Auditors on 10 June was held in Brussels on 10 June. A hint of Anachronism is attached to June this year, it is now hoped that the almost 90-year-old history of this new building of the Faculty of Mechanical Engineering of TU is finished and is now finally being built. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e18463	Mr Dr. Doppelmüller has now been reported on the floor. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e18484	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Mr State Secretary! High house! I have to deal with the subject of Lyocell today, but in fact I wanted to deal with the Court of Auditors in more detail. I am also of the opinion that the Court of Auditors is a very valuable instrument of Parliament, but, Mr President, I was already wondering in the committee how you are always insulting if you practice a bit of criticism of the Court of Auditors or if something is questioned. I don't quite understand. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: No, not insulted! He'll do it right again!]] With all due regard for your employees, I would point out, for example, that for nine years a Mr. Talirz was shot by the mills of justice and was recently acquitted in Graz. And everywhere it was to be read that only a report from the Court of Auditors was responsible for the charges. It must therefore also be allowed to discuss the Court of Auditors. Perhaps one should do this more often, perhaps we should sit down and discuss some of the things that have already happened to me in the short time of the inconsistencies of matter. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But now back to Burgenland and to Lyocell. Our geographical professor Schweitzer has used the Court of Auditors report to do so – as many of us, of course, do – to pick out the negative grains. On the whole, the Court of Auditors' report on Lenzing AG is a very positive one. If the Director-General earns too much or has been paid out too much vacation, this is nebblich compared to the overall result of the company or what is there, for example, about environmental protection. Lyocell is also not so badly described there. Although I fought for the Lyocell site at the time, I have always understood the view of the Burgenland and the Burgenhagen head of state that one has tried to get a head office in this disadvantaged region. I am still convinced that this was the right thing to do. I will explain this to Mr Schweitzer as well, because he does something I do not understand: I would never do this as an overarching opposition politician that, as it were, I would actually endanger jobs by defiance of a product or plant without giving him or her the chance to really develop. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I'll do that right now. I am reading what Mr Schweitzer has to say to show just how unnecessarily he is addressing the matter, but perhaps he is also making it aware. He writes: Especially the spinning mills have huge problems with the quality of the fiber – so Schweitzer – which is a defibrillation problem. – I don’t know if he knows what that means, because he continues to say: When processing, the fiber dissolves. – That's something of cockbucks, that's a nonsense! In the same article, the managing director of the field of the spinning of Linz textile, who probably does not understand as much of it as the geography professor Schweitzer, dements the problems with Lyocell: The fiber does not resolve, but there are color problems. But these lie not on the fiber, but on the equipment. So that's the truth. That is to say, a great technical achievement has been accomplished there, and this work has been placed on the green meadow in a short time. It works technically very well, but there are sales problems because this high-priced fiber... [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] – You can laugh quietly, you don’t want to hear that. [[Prolonged calls.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] This is a problem of quantities, and this problem of quantities would have been the same in Lenzing. This is always so if one does not apply a product to the necessary extent. Read what problems there have been in Perlon and Nylon goods until they have taken hold! This opportunity should be given to the work, Mr Schweitzer! They're always working for the little brave and brave people. If you want to sell a product, a beautiful suit about, they will not put on it if you put on it with paint or dirt before. I think the project in Burgenland is a future project. Read Dionys Lehner, Doyen of the textile industry, in the "profile". He says that this is the future fiber, that we must not abandon this technology in Austria, it needs patience. The decision was right. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Help You prefer with, but not with any accusations – I even say, not tossing with dirt what it really is when you try with such arguments to make the fiber mediocre – but help you to maintain these jobs that the work is being pushed. Mr Schweitzer! Her speech today was Emmentaler: dizzy, dirty – with one word: a "schweizer" cheese.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e18563	The next speaker is Mrs Povysil. 7 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e18584	Mr President. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] Mr. State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors examined in 1996 the fees, fees and fees of doctors at public hospitals and at university hospitals. In the Committee only the public hospitals were allowed to be questioned. This is all the more surprising as there are clear shortcomings in the university clinics, but the government obviously holds its protective hand. The honoring of the leading doctors in the hospitals is a historically growing – one can say already – history, and the Court of Auditors rightly criticises that it is at the very moment possible with insider knowledge to unravel this jungle of fees and salary situation. In principle, the salary of a doctor consists of the basic content, the special fee, a possible ambulance fee and the remuneration for a possible professional activity. The salary is low so that the doctor depends on special fees, which are an essential income component. These special fees, on the other hand, are the medical fees of the private patients, and for these he gives a different proportion to the hospital holders depending on the federal state. In Upper Austria, for example, it is 25 percent, in Vienna – listen, ladies and gentlemen from Vienna! – it's zero percent. And that's where the difficulties start: Both the disbursement mode and the home return – that is, what is to be transferred to the hospital – as well as the distribution to the subordinate doctors are different, from country to country, sometimes from home to house. That is to say, there is a complete knowledge of the competence of the Court of Auditors across all the federal states. The amount of fees collected is also different from subject to subject. For example, an operating doctor, a surgeon, deserves about four times as much as a pediatrician or a psychiatrist, because the latter of course has fewer special-class patients due to his patient clientele. The Court's claims must therefore be accepted only if it says: In principle, all doctors should be given an adequate reward, or if he says the second thing: Immediate dependence of the hospital doctors on the special fees must be eliminated, because here there is a real and true imbalance. However, all experts invited to this committee warn of a complete change in the system. Because what would happen? – If the system were to be changed in such a way that, for example, special charges were completely abolished and a fixed salary situation was created, then pure two-class medicine would arise, because those patients who are still private patients – there will continue to be private insurance – will disappear into pure private hospitals. And also what the doctor is currently handing off from his medical fee would no longer benefit the homes, and there would be a considerable burden on the general public. Because at present, my Ladies and gentlemen, 33.9% of the population are private health insurance and total private health insurance expenditure was 12 billion schilling in 1996. We were not allowed to question the actual status of the university clinics in the committees. According to the Court of Auditors' report, hospital boards in the university clinics are clearly permitted to cancel a doctor's fee for special class patients twice for the same performance. It was not possible for us to question that. But it was also not possible for us to question many other things, such as the topic of Wiener Festwochen, the topic of federal property management, the topic of ST Liegenschaftsverwerbungs AG or the topic of school medical service. Of the eleven topics we asked for as the opposition party, we were only allowed to deal with six. Mr Wurmitzer was so nice and said that he is at any time willing to discuss this with us again that he is ready at all times to talk. Deputies! We'll give you this chance. I would like to make a request for referral back to the Court of Auditors, and I hope, of course, that you will agree, because that is what you have said in public. Request by Mr Apfelbeck and others on referral pursuant to § 71 GOG-NR The National Council intends to refer the Court of Auditors' report to the Court of Auditors for further consideration of the Court of Auditors' report on the activity report (on III-106 of the supplements) of the Court of Auditors for the 1996 administrative year (1355 of the Supplements). I am very pleased, Mr Wurmitzer, that you will be speaking. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] As a health politician and as a doctor, of course, I am particularly concerned with the human and quality really good care of our people in the hospitals. As a department head in a hospital – and I can speak in front of you as a department head, one who holds this profession – one must be the manager, truly qualified doctor, trainer and accountant in the context of the LKF. And to get such qualified people, it needs a decent, performance-related fee system. For example, a solution approach across the whole of the Court of Auditors would be a mixed system, such as that already exists in other countries, such as Canada or Holland, an adequate payment, a so-called fee for service, which means that only those who really provide a service are adequately rewarded for it. Ladies and gentlemen! At present, there is neither a uniform competence nor a uniform system nor a performance-related and transparent system. Mrs Hostasch, who unfortunately is not present today, has this Court of Auditors report. She's on the train. We are waiting for implementation!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e18686	The request for referral is sufficiently supported and is included in the negotiation. Mr Wurmitzer has now referred to an actual correction. Mr deputies, start with the claim you want to make. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e18710	Mr President. High house! Member of the Commission. Povysil has claimed that the Court of Auditors would have called for 11 topics to be examined for special treatment in the Committee. This presentation is incorrect: There was no need by the Liberal Party for any further discussion except for the six topics already agreed before the Committee meeting. That is the fact, and therefore I do not see any need to accept the request.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e18746	There is now a second speech by the honourable Member Mag. Sweitzer with a voluntary time limit of 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e18764	Ladies and gentlemen! My second speech has become necessary because I have to deal with colleagues Doppelmüller again, how successful socialist economic policy has been. Ladies and gentlemen! Only the facts: Total investment in this key work: 2.3 billion schilling. Most of these investments had to be made by the Burgenland in the form of a loan in the non-EU country of Switzerland in order to be able to raise co-financing at all. Result: After a billion Schillings credit was provided in Switzerland and 2.3 billion Schillings in total, 116 jobs were created there. People worked primarily to fill the camps with the unsold fiber. Ladies and gentlemen! When storage capacity was no longer available, the operation had to be stopped after not even a year, and for eight weeks it was no longer produced there. After an investment of 2.3 billion Schilling, it could not be produced at all for eight weeks because this fiber is not available on the market. [[Mr Mag. Interlocutor's call. Peter.]] That is fact, that is SPÖ economic policy in 1997/98! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Headmaster.]] I would like to ask, Mr President, if I may, if I may: Why, if the fiber is so innovative and good, is it reduced by 14 employees in the field of human resources research and development? Why not continue research and try to make this fiber really marketable? 14 persons from the Research and Development Department for this fiber have been dismantled in the last few days. So you believe in this future product in Lenzing! But 2.3 billion schilling of misinvestment is quite normal for you!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e18818	There is no more word message for this. The debate is closed. We now come to two votes, first of all with regard to the request made by Mr Applebeck and Mr Comrades to refer the matter back to the Committee on the Court of Auditors. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this referral request to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The referral request is rejected. We are now voting on the item on the agenda, on the request from the Committee to take note of this report (on III-106 of the supplements). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this adoption to give a sign of approval. – The information takes place in a multi-vocal manner. 8. Point Report of the Committee on Immunities on the request of the Vienna National Court of Criminal Matters (9dE Vr 5025/98, Hv 3058/98) for approval of the official persecution of the MP to the National Council Dr. Jörg Haider (1398 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e18874	Now we're on the 8th. Agenda item. Oral reporting has not been desired. There is also no word for the debate, so that I conclude this debate. There is no final word for reporting. We are therefore voting on the request made by the Committee on Immunities in 1398 to decide on the following: 1. In response to the request of the Regional Court of Criminal Matters of Vienna of 9 June 1885. In June 1998, Dr. Jörg Haider became a member of the National Council for the purposes of Article 57(1) of the Rules of Procedure. 3 Federal Constitutional Act states that there is a link between the criminal act alleged by the private prosecutor and the political activity of the MP to the National Council Dr. Jörg Haider. 2. An official persecution of the MP to the National Council Dr. Jörg Haider is hereby approved. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to these two points of the request for a corresponding sign. - That's the majority. This request is therefore accepted. 9. Point First reading of the motion for a resolution (Doc. 816/A) by Mr Mag. Helmut Peter and comrades concerning a federal law on the pursuit of commercial activities (Competition Act – German Law) 1998
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e18935	We're coming to the 9th. Agenda item. We are beginning the debate with the applicant, Mr President, first of all. Peter, give the word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e18959	Mr President. High house! At a later hour, a first reading has little chance of finding interest. Therefore, only a few brief comments. Unfortunately, so far, the multi-quoted young business offensive is only taking place on the paper. We have the problem that there is still discrimination against the new independence, whether it be tax law or social law, but above all with regard to the burden of bureaucracy. This is due to the unnecessary burden of access to commerce, because, despite the reform of the trade regulation, which has been launched and which has brought some minor improvements, unnecessary barriers to trade have been created. I am convinced that the tests of the past cannot guarantee the quality of the future. I am convinced, however, that the qualifications such as the Master's exam as a qualification criterion make sense to customers. We see the initiative proposal of the Liberals, which we have re-opened, as a basis for discussion, according to which free access to the trade should be made possible and an insurance obligation for entrepreneurs created. We know about the difficulties in the insurance issue. A design in the second risk, a self-retaining design and a definition of risk management will be necessary. But above all, we believe that the double regulation we have in many areas between trade regulation and special legislation is unnecessary. The design of a modern plant right is accompanied by this application. This corresponds in many respects to the draft which the Federal Government has introduced late but now. It promised us this draft investment law for much earlier. He's here now. I hope that there will be joint parliamentary treatment. As this proposal for a trade regulation represents a work in progress that we are constantly working on, I am now announcing an amendment to the criminal provisions which are too high in their lower limit and would therefore encounter resistance from the Administrative Court. I am glad that I am able to say again and again, when I follow the press reports, that there are positive signals not only from the Social Democrats who understand that this trade regulation is an unnecessary barrier to the new independence in the current form. I would like everyone to understand that new independence cannot be achieved, but that the necessary framework conditions must be created. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e19003	The next speaker is Mrs Fekter. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e19021	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Peter, I do not agree if you want to discuss the trade regulations from the very difficult point of view of access, and not because it is incomparablely easier with access than with the difficult conditions that are later partially used to businesses. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to mention two examples today which show that the will of the legislator, that is, what we have decided here, will not be carried out, but, quite the contrary, companies will be treated in a real way. Commercial notices have been reviewed. As far as I can remember, however, we have not decided here in this House that, for example, slippers must be placed at the feet of armchairs and tables, i.e. a kind of felt patch or rubber patch. But here I have a fine over 1,000 s, because some of the armchairs have replaced the felt spatters. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Peter.]] I think that this is a scandalous and abominable execution by the commercial authority. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Who took away the felt spatters?]] That's in the Magistrates' Department for the 4th and 5th. District occurred. This magistrate's department is so immeasurable when it comes to punishing. We have also not decided in this House that farms should be punished, where everything is really fine. It happened to an entrepreneur that the commercial authority had come unannounced, that it was not present by chance and that the findings – gas findings, safety findings – had blocked, so that his employees were not able to present them immediately at the outset. The reason for the decision is as follows: "The penalty imposed is appropriate. When calculating the penalty, it was taken into account that the act did not entail any adverse consequences." So there were no adverse consequences at all! "In addition, the impotence of the perpetrator was taken into account." – The magistrate or the head of state are responsible, no longer the Ministry of Economic Affairs. They don't know. They have slept the last novels of the trade order. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: You must finally come to the government!]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The commercial authority has a penalty, although there have been no adverse consequences! Although the accused was trying to comply with all the conditions, although the necessary findings on which it was going and which were blocked were all prepared in time and showed no defects, the Authority nevertheless said that the penalty of 12 000 S was appropriate because the employees were unable to submit everything in time. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Except for those concerning the fill-patterns!]] [[Abg. May. Peter: There is a need for reform!]] In this regard, there is a need for reform – I agree with you, Mr Peter, because these harassous practices in the implementation of the law which we have decided here certainly do not comply with the will of the legislator! [[Congratulations and congratulation of the honourable Member Mag. Peter]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dkfm. Bauer: On what basis has the Authority decided?]] Due to the execution, in this case by the magistrate of the city of Vienna – the supreme authority is the head of state, with which he ends this procedure; there is no longer any higher instance, that is not the ministry – it is obvious that he has slept the novices with which the embodiment was established among the national leaders. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Middelbare Bundesverwaltung!]] In view of this, I am really pleased that the Federal Chancellor is talking so much about the liberalisation of the trade regulations. He should point out to his dear colleague, Mr Häupl, that liberalisation is also a means of detachment.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e19172	The next speaker was Mr Heindl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e19191	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Fekter! I, too, hear incidents of this kind on a case-by-case basis. But I don't do it so easy that I say... [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: This has not come to my ears, I have the letters in my hand!]] You are right if you say that it was all our opinion that the court movement should end at the head of state! Do you know what I'm doing when something like that happens to me? – I call the competent chief official and ask: Dr. Hechtner, what's going on? Is that possible? Because, of course, we have no control over it. The way in which it is implemented does not say anything about the quality of a law! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: It is a madness that such a thing happens at all!]] I would like to say something about this: With regard to such incidents, I am of your opinion. But you are now asking the Chancellor again to take care of it, but you have just said that the Minister for Economic Affairs should not take care of it. – So: If he's not allowed to take care of it, then the chancellor mustn't take care of it. What is the point of the discussion in this direction? I don't understand! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As a former State Secretary and lawyer, I would recommend: Keep a bit of the skills! Mrs Fekter, it can't be the execution... [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: If such merciless action is carried out, we need action!]] Mrs Fekter! I've told you before if you tell me if you don't... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] I don't know! It also doesn't matter if it's a black, red, or blue official. If this is the case, then we must follow it, but not the Minister for Economic Affairs and not the Chancellor, and not we in Parliament. That's a fact. Criticize this on one side, on the other hand ask for it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It's half eleven! Let us discuss principles! As to what I'm saying now, you'll be surprised: I very much agree with Mr Peter on a point, namely that we must not stop in the reform. Economics is changing so enormously that we are not able to create ever-increasing and improved framework conditions quickly enough. We must agree on this. But I do not entirely agree with you, for example, if you say that the approval rules are anyway all pallets. I believe that there are enough things that can be improved. And I also believe - I have not enforced this point, I like to admit it or I have to admit it - that the financial conditions should be improved, because especially young people who start working have no understanding that, if they want to become independent or want to enter into business activity, they have to pay a lot. These are the things we must pay attention to! Mr Peter! We are happy to discuss with you: Flexibility and speed, of course, are criteria that distinguish future self-employed entrepreneurs. But I don't understand something. It is easy to say: Let's create a lot of sections, a few hundred or even a thousand. But what's going on? To what extent is the consumer then protected. Where is worker protection? Do you want all of this to be regulated by the small print in the insurance conditions instead of the execution by state authorities? According to your model, hundreds of paragraphs would disappear, but the provisions would appear again in small prints in the insurance companies. Mr Peter! You're in business the way I am: You know very well that a newcomer in this business has to find an insurance that covers 5 or 10 million schilling of liability insurance. Or he must pay so much premium that he has already perished before he even started. So stay on the floor! We are committed to liberalisation, but we want to have a certain legal framework. We want quality, but we do not want authorities to be replaced by insurance conditions. We certainly do not want to, because that is not the future of Austrian economic life! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I need to tell you our "Njet". Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e19277	Mrs Madl is now speaking. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e19298	Mr President. High house! Mrs Fekter is sorry for a new law, which she has decided on herself. For you have decided to move the new body yourself, Mrs Colleague! But now stand here and talk against it, because probably – Mr Heindl has already said this suspicion – a red district captain in Vienna was concerned with the matter. And you have not expected this because you have relied on the fact that in the federal states there are mainly black national leaders, who are then the highest authority for this commercial authority. So you're sorry about something you decided to do yourself a year and a half ago. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] Of course you were sorry. Look at the record! That was terrible! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: It's not the law, it's the execution!]] I agree with Mr Heindl that this reflection of the commercial law, which you all have decided, did not reflect the wave of founding and re-establishment you have announced. You can't assign that to the execution! Because of filzpatscherln on any armchairs – it is directly unworthy to mention something like this here in the house – if it is made easy for him to stop anyone from starting a new business or to decide on entrepreneurship. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] I'm not worth the felt spatters, you're right, colleague Stadler! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] No, no, no, Your whole founding wave has gone into the pants, and now you are pushing it to the implementation of the commercial law that you have decided on. And I find that unreasonable! Now to this request. I agree with Mr Heindl that there are some things in it that are good about the idea in itself. You said that was a basis for discussion. But such liberalisation in connection with access to a trade is simply impossible! A key point in this is the liability insurance for free trade. One has to imagine this: A locker opens a holding before he is allowed to open, however, he must take out liability insurance. I would like to see the amount of insurance he will complete. For what insurance will happen to someone who does not have a certificate of qualification and who does not have to demonstrate a qualification, to a normal premium, if they know exactly that this company, such as a lockery or a toolmaking company, can do any pussing work that he can do anyway, for otherwise he would not have to be held liable to do a damage of millions of schilling! In this story, you represent an immensely strong liberalism that you have brought from somewhere – and I also know where you're from – but I'm telling you one thing: You should have looked at the liberal model that we brought into the discussion at the time when the Commercial Law was adopted! That would have been a reasonable thing!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e19352	There is also a speech by Mr Smolle. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e19373	Dober večer! Good evening! Mr President. High house! Visoki Dom! Dragi prijatelji! I would like to take care of Mr Fekter. I do not think it is fair that, just because she has chosen a bad example, one gives the Hikanes a free letter, so to speak. We know that there are really a lot of things that do not fit us businessmen as a whole. There's a lot of control, there's a lot of controls. In principle, one has nothing against it, but ultimately the control should only fulfil the purpose of improving the quality of the operation, but not of annoying the people. And I don't think a penalty for such a bagatelle makes sense. For this does not mean anything but bad mood, which can even lead to the end that the quality of work of the employees suffers. I could also tell some stories, there are really often filzpatscherl-like occurrences. I am sorry if God is also a affected person and knows what I am talking about. [[Abg. May. Stadler: What does "Filzpatschern" mean in Slovenian?]] I am very happy to have a Slovenian discussion with you, and after the end of the House session you are all invited to do so. [[Abg. May. Stadler: But I want to know right now!]] I speak Slovenian, Stadler speaks German. I hope we will understand anyway! But now on the subject: My colleague, Mr Peter, has said something that always distinguishes the liberals: We do not claim to have eaten the wisdom with the great spoon, but we present solid, good papers for discussion about the content of which we should consider. – Many things from it may find approval at first glance, in many things one must first deepen. Some of you should take a closer look at the texts and not use the late hour as an excuse for sloppyness because he did not study the paper. Ladies and gentlemen! Facilitating access to commerce is a very, very important and central requirement. Especially if we break our heads now on how to create more jobs, how we can introduce new self-employment, we need to help, above all, older workers, who often perform excellent work and who have a high level of competence and experience due to decades of activity in a particular profession. The Liberal amendment is intended to enable new independence, and a prerequisite for this is a clearer and easier access to commercial activity. Finally, it's also a cure for pussy. I'd like to hold on to that. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] We also broke our heads about the quality of the service. I believe that an insurance obligation can also be a guarantee of good quality, especially if one introduces a self-interest and says that in the end the person who has not done his job satisfactoryly has the right and the duty to do so. You can talk about all of this! It is also very important that we bring this draft to strengthen the rights of neighborhoods. There is therefore no neglect of the rights of those affected by the establishment of a particular business. The next pillar of our draft is the clarification of the issue of plant rights. Anyone who has a somewhat more complicated trade knows what effort and how many ways of administration are needed. It is urgently necessary that a single authority be made responsible, which then takes care of all further permits and which, of course, gives the conditions necessary to establish a plant and finally start work. It is very important that we do not always waste everything on the little man who has the courage to become self-employed and create jobs; also by often making laws very quickly and very late here. It is also important that we force the authority to react. In other words, if the authority does not express itself, if, as it were, it fails on its own time, then the holding can start. That's a very central point. There are a lot of delays. I could tell you about operating openings for weeks in advance, where Commissions were expected to come too late. I can tell you a lot about that. Ladies and gentlemen! There's fresh wind in there. In particular, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, take part in this request! They will see that the result will be satisfactory – both for traders and consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e19428	There is no more word message for this. I'll close the debate. I agree with Amendment No 816/A to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. 10. Point Election of a member to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e19464	We're coming to the 10th. Agenda item. This is the election of a member to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. There is only one motion for a resolution. This is to Mrs. Dr. Irmtraut Karlsson. I therefore propose, within the meaning of § 66 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, not with votes, but by raising the sittings. Is there any objection against this procedure? - That's not the case. I therefore ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the adoption of the proposed election proposal to be approved. – That is unanimous. The vote was adopted unanimously. I congratulate Mrs Dr Karlsson on this election. [[General condolences.]] The agenda is exhausted. Request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e19520	We shall now proceed to the debate on the request by Mr Aumayr and Mr Comrades for the establishment of a committee of inquiry on the political, legal and financial responsibility of several Federal Ministers and the AMA in the development and poor management of the hormone meat scandal. This request has been distributed to all Members of this House. A reading does not take place. We'll start with the debate. You know the rules of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Aumayr, as an applicant, I would like to speak to you first. You have a speaking time of 10 minutes available. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e19547	I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] High house! The alleged largest crime in agriculture has not only become the biggest blamage for the Minister Prammer, but the so-called hormone scandal has also shown that foreign beef is stored in the Austrian intervention camp and that the consumer has two years old beef product. This intervention camp was set up in 1996 at the time of the BSE crisis to remove the beef surplus in Austria. A committee of inquiry should now clarify: Which companies have stored beef at what price? Which companies do business selling from this intervention camp? Are there calls for tenders? Above all, however, it should be clarified: How is it possible for Austrian beef not only to be frozen in this Austrian intervention camp? How many tons are from Germany, Italy or Poland, and who is responsible for this? In my opinion, if the political responsibility of the Minister for Agriculture Molterer is to bear, it is a huge scandal that, at the so-called Cattle Summit, exactly 60 million Schillings have been granted and allocated tax money for an image campaign. At this summit the Federal Chancellor, Minister Molterer, Minister Prammer and Member of the Chamber of Commerce took a bold part. It is to be examined why the beef summit was empty for the real victims – the farmers and the meat industry – although the damage to the farmers was 50 million schilling, according to President Schwarzböck, and the damage to the meat industry according to the Chamber of Commerce was 150 million schilling. It is to be examined why Minister Prammer of Italy was born on 14 May. He was informed of alleged hormone residues in the Austrian beef and – without taking a counter-sample – went to the public 17 days later. As Minister of Consumer Affairs, you should have known that a breach of the Food Act without counter-testing is not a legal challenge. – No counter-test! Nevertheless, Minister Prammer, the Federal Chancellor's Office, but also the Chamber of Commerce and the Minister of Agriculture are going to kneel and de facto decide on an export stop for Austrian beef to Italy. This corresponds to a debt admission, from the highest level of minister. Why is this swift kneefall, Mr Schwarzenberger? As a result, the livestock sales to Italy have only been properly established. We liberals want to be clarified by a committee of inquiry, why Minister Prammer on 31 December. As part of a press conference on Stylbene in the Austrian beef sector, July 1998 speaks of the largest criminal case in Austrian agriculture. The reason was perhaps the strictly confidential letter from the Austrian Chamber of Commerce of the 30th century. July? [[Abg. Swimmling: That you have there!]] ==References== On July 30, Ms Prammer went to the public. A letter from the Austrian Chamber of Commerce, livestock and meat wholesalers, was received urgently, strictly confidentially: It covers: all the national bodies of wholesale livestock and meat trade, as well as meat shops and slaughterhouses; 30. July; urgent, strictly confidential; with regard to beef exports to Italy: "Dear ladies and gentlemen! In the case of deliveries of meat to Italy from the intervention, slaughter in 1996, residues of prohibited substances were found in Italy during follow-up investigations. There is a risk that Austrian meat deliveries to Italy will have to be completely discontinued." [[Abg. May. Stadler: They talk to the Prammer!]] – You have to imagine that! – "In view of this extremely serious situation, we recommend that all export companies carry out shipments to Italy only after the negative investigation results have been clarified or wait for the clarification of these open questions." Now I suspect that by this strictly confidential letter from the Federal Chamber of Commerce of the 30th century. Mr Prammer, who has so far been silent for 16 days, has been deliberately put into trouble in train. It is not possible to think what would have happened if this strictly confidential letter from the Federal Chamber of Commerce had been sent to the media and the minister responsible had not done anything until then. That Mrs Prammer was on 31 December. One day later, speaking of the greatest scandal of Austrian agriculture, it is indebted. However, following the results of the investigation in Holland, where it was clearly demonstrated that no hormone residues in Austrian beef were present, it said that it would act in this way at any time, that is really a scandal. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] What can farmers actually do to make a minister feel tricked by the Federal Chamber of Commerce? It has caused a terrible image damage far beyond the borders of Austria. She failed as a Minister of Consumer Affairs, because she acted either too late – she would already have done so on 14 May. To do July – or too early, because at least she had to wait for the counter-samples. As a limitation of damage, she then announced that she is now making a self-advertisement. When I heard that, I thought that was really good. She now assumes responsibility and shows herself. Really good. – A few hours later, however, she also failed for me as a women's minister, because she takes back this announcement because her master and master, the party-chairing German Chancellor climate, simply forbids her this self-advertisement. It's all back again! How should a woman's minister be credible in representing women's affairs if she does not even hold her own position with her boss? You have to explain that to me once! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Fuchs: The logical conclusion is stunning!]] What is also meant by Austria's fine food shop? – The consumer is really sold as stupid. The Minister does not say that a two-year-old beef may be sold to Austrian consumers. There is no law in Austria providing a time limit for frozen meat. There's just no limit. That can be three, that can be four years old. We have tabled a request to the Committee on Health. It simply cannot be that the really injured in this scandal, namely the farmers and the meat industry, the meat trade, go out empty. For these reasons, we have submitted to the Committee on Agriculture a request for full compensation for farmers and farmers. The only winner in this scandal is the good Minister Molterer, for the suspicion is that at the summit the Federal Chancellor agreed to this 60 million schilling of tax money for the Minister of Agriculture, who demanded this so much according to the motto: You give me 60 million, and I'm not doing anything to your red minister, whom we've done so well from the black Chamber of Commerce.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e19652	The following speakers are subject to a speaking time limit of 5 minutes. The next speaker is Mr Deputie Gradwelt. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e19677	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I assume that an investigation needs an object. In the opening of today's application for the establishment of an investigation committee, a poor attempt is being made to construct such an object. In the last ten minutes we have experienced the repeated attempt of this construction, and I cannot actually add anything to the call of my colleague Fox. Mrs Aumayr! Your logic, as you have argued here and as you have tried to represent the subject of an investigation, is looking for the same. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs Aumayr! They have tried to make clear today that the Minister of Consumer Protection has acted incorrectly by fulfilling the constitutional mandate to stand up to the consumer protection... – moment, no artificial excitement into an artificial subject of investigation! [[Abg. May. Stadler: That was too high for a parish secretary from Styria!]] [[Abg. Aumayr: You couldn't follow!]] [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] You have accused the Minister for Consumer Protection of putting herself in front of consumers by giving this press conference, and now you want to examine it. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Mrs Aumayr! If you had actually searched for this application submitted today, you would only need to surf the Internet a little and would have had no reason for your application. Because then you would have found on the Internet documents of the European Commission – which I would like to make available to you, since you yourself seem unable to get these documents yourself – which clearly state that these items you claimed happened, not in Austria, but through the European Commission. [[Prolonged calls to the liberals.]] In your statement of reasons, you speak of an export stop and an export ban. I don't know anything like that. I've been researching if there's anything like that. Mrs Aumayr! There is an import ban, but there is nowhere to speak of an export ban, and no one can confirm to me that there is an export ban. [[Abg. Silhavy: Maybe she doesn't know the difference!]] Second point, my honours. Ladies and gentlemen: If you had hired research from the "F", you would have had to find that these reference studies, which you requested, were very probably requested by the Austrian authorities, but that they did not comply with the wishes in Italy in time. Thirdly, If you had researched a little, you would have recognized that the European Union, namely the Directorate-General XXIV, had made a service and control trip to Austria to clarify these matters. In this report you can read... – After the incident, because they could not have examined it before. [[Call the liberals:When?]] [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] On the occasion of this mission, the minutes – I quote – were recorded: The measures taken by the Austrian authorities are in accordance with the provisions of the Council Directives. – That is to say, in Austria you have done absolutely right. What do you want to investigate, Mrs. Aumayr? [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] Next point. You referred to it, Mr Stadler. [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] – I always have and I will eat Austrian beef with pleasure in the future, which you can also recognize by my beautiful figure. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: You can see that!]] Mrs Aumayr! You also... – Not only, colleague Ofner, I admit it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] Ladies and gentlemen! With this request, I would like to point out that You are setting up an investigative committee on a subject which has already been completed by a summit in the Austrian Federal Government for the benefit of the other groups of persons and working groups you are supposed to represent today. [[Abg. Aumayr: Where are the compensations for the farmers?]] If you had made a little effort by the liberals to investigate, you would have found that measures had already been taken. Further action will be taken and implemented to prevent exactly what you, as a black devil – excuse, blue devil – are painting on the wall. For me, one thing is fixed, ladies and gentlemen: In the absence of a reason for an investigation, it is also not possible to set up an investigation committee. But there's another one: As in the last few days, you have also stated today that consumers, producers, want to protect them, but in reality it is only about throwing nebula grenades, Mr President, at the end of the day, to distract them from their own problems. [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign]] For you to find out from this fog, Mrs Aumayr, we are not here.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e19836	The next speaker is Mr Schwarzböck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e19857	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The victims, especially those farmers who have had to struggle for weeks with an unsatisfying market situation, do not need an investigation committee, but rather the fastest implementation of the results agreed at the Government Summit. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Above all, we expect Mrs Prammer to implement quickly in her competence what has been agreed with the social partners in the government summit. Mrs Aumayr! What is to be studied? [[Abg. Aumayr: For example: Why is foreign beef in Austrian camps?]] The fact that Mrs Prammer has made irresponsible and false statements that have caused damage in several areas of the economy is obvious and does not need to be examined. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Here you hear!]] It is obvious that the measures of the cattle summit should lead to concrete results as quickly as possible until the action is brought before Italy. Point of the 7-point programme is agreed: "If the measures are to take an unsatisfactory course, then the same group of persons will start negotiations in order to achieve more concrete results." [[Abg. May. Stadler: ÖVP-Logik!]] Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. May. Stadler: Does Prammer pay for the damage?]] It is bizarre that you are now criticising scandalization – which I just criticise with Mrs Prammer – although, before it was clear that nothing is, your party chairman Haider and your farmer's representative Reichhold spoke just as much of the great scandal and also took in Raiffeisen's associations, because without them there must be no major scandal discussions. [[Intrusions of the Abg. May. Stadler]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Live calls.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The barrel's full! [[Abg. May. Stadler: Another reason for an investigation committee!]] Because your Health Minister, your health spokesman Pumberger, has already surpassed Prammer in all categories two years ago. A few weeks after the BSE scandal broke out in England, your health spokesman, your shadow health minister, stood here at the speaker's desk and talked about the country with most BSE and Creutzfeldt-Jakob cases being not England but Austria; only with us would be concealed and exposed in England. [[Prolonged calls to the liberals.]] I have the press release from you here, colleague Pumberger. ==References====External links== Read April. Everything you blamed Prammer has been surpassed by you several times! [[Call the liberals:Where? Where?]] Of several people: Haider, Reichhold and Pumberger. [[Abg. May. Stadler: All the more a reason for a committee of inquiry!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I should like to express my dissatisfaction with the fact that the problem is also related to the fact that Mrs Prammer has been assigned competences which are not necessarily related to her personal access to the important issues of her political life. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Live calls.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: After this is a good reason!]] Please? [[Abg. Arbitrators: There are a few ministers to say goodbye to you! For example, the Minister of Defence!]] Mr. Schieder! You can check public opinion at any time. It is depicted in cartoons in a particularly impressive way. I personally believe that it is good for the government to enter into negotiations on such competence issues in the next government or perhaps before. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Just like the Schwarzböck and the Raiffeisenverband!]] Ladies and gentlemen! As Mrs Aumayr said that Mrs Prammer should have stayed with the self-admission: Mrs Aumayr, be glad that there is no legal order for such conduct. In fact, they are constantly embarrassed to have to order self-advertising weekly with regard to similar statements.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e20063	I call Mr Wenitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e20084	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Instead of a scandal of beef, one has to speak of a hormone scandal, because in the meat scandals of this republic the ÖVP has been involved without exception and nobody else. You have done huge damage to the farmers so far! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That's understandable. Every meat scandal revealed in this Republic was in the darkest circle of the ÖVP and nowhere else. You can prove that. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This hormone scandal is, of course, a matter for two-way examination. I do not think that to examine the behaviour of Mrs Prammer will have much meaning. I don't put any evil intentions on her. Her behaviour was a bit tolly, and it must be said loud and clear that she was, of course, a little awkward in the tough competition of the meat mafia in the European Union. She failed in this point, but maybe she still learns. Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== In July 1998, the Italian Ministry of Health informed the Austrian Embassy about hormone residues in Austrian meat. ==References== On July 21, 1998, I believe that Italy – and I believe that the real criminal case is happening – is refusing to review the agricultural market in Austria for these meat samples. It was a long time before Minister Prammer made this unscrupulous statement. It was therefore rejected by the Italian meat mafia – if I may call it so. What's going on on on on 30. July 1998? – There's also something interesting about this place. The Austrian Chamber of Commerce – Mr. Schwarzböck, I have this black on white, you need nothing to beautify and cover up – informed on 30 July. In July, the meat dealers in Austria recommend that all export companies carry out the shipments to Italy only after negative investigation results have been found or await the clarification of these open questions. Mr President, I should like to thank you for your support. I would like you and your Chamber to take the same care when importing food to Austria as you would with the exports of Austrian cattle farmers. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You don't need to tell me anything! That's the truth! In case of import control, you have failed so far. That would be your job. Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== In July 1998, Mrs Prammer referred to this hormone scandal as the largest criminal case in Austrian agriculture, although the Minister knew or should have known that Italy had rejected this review of the agricultural market in Austria. You could have thought, therefore, that there is more to it than a plump attempt to worsen the export conditions for Austria, for the Austrian farmers. Ladies and gentlemen! The sum of this story: According to my colleague, President Schwarzböck, the loss of image according to Minister Molterer 60 million schilling for the Republic, according to my colleague, President Schwarzböck, is 50 million schilling – witness Schwarzböck – the loss in the slaughterhouses, according to Secretary General Stumblingly: [[Abg. May. Stadler: Witness Schwarzböck!]] 150 million schilling. The economic damage caused by this problem is in fact not yet estimated. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What is there to investigate? – Mr Schwarzböck says there is nothing to investigate. We're used to this: The ÖVP wants to cover and not reveal. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There is, however, a great deal to examine. First of all, it is important to examine the political responsibility of Mrs Prammer, but above all it is about examining what sort of dubious business is handled through the AMA, the agricultural market Austria, in this Republic. That is the crucial point. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The delivery examined near Rome is a product that the agricultural market had bought and frozen Austria in 1996. It is said that incriminated meat tribes of cattle, either raised in Austria or transported from abroad as live cattle to Austria and slaughtered here. A small part of this meat is imported meat. Ladies and gentlemen! This must be examined. The AMA, which is paid and financed by Austrian compulsory contributions, does not have the task of buying and storing foreign meat in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e20149	I call Mr Smolle. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e20170	Dober večer! High house! Visoki Dom! Mr President. Gospod predsednik! Mrs Aumayr, I assume that what you have told us corresponds to the truth. Just like you told me: Word for word, date for date. I must therefore ask you: What else are you going to do? You've examined it, I believe you. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Ladies and gentlemen! The facts are thus established. This is just a matter of political responsibility. And this too is clear: Mrs Prammer has explained something quickly and not knowingly. So your political responsibility is clear. There was a Minister Molterer about whom the ÖVP called me: That's a good minister, he won't rip anything out of me, nothing 60 million out of you! – I don’t know if this is perhaps a somewhat unpleasant thing, because he’s tearing out tax money! Otherwise, we would certainly have had tax revenue from the meat exports. Now taxpayers still have to contribute 60 million schilling. So I see no need to investigate anything here! I only see it as necessary that at least the lady in this party has consequences and resigns. That's what I asked for, and that's what I'm standing for today. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Next point: Of course, if you think about whether the health issue, the consumer question and the farmers' question are really well accommodated in the respective government parties, you have a little dissatisfaction. I have my doubts in this regard. But this thing is also quite clear: They always claim responsibility for these farmers, but now, as it were, let them bite back into the acid apple. For we know that it will not be done with 60 million. We know that the price of cattle has fallen, we know very well that the traders are pressing in addition and in this way the damage to the first producers, i.e. the farmers. All this hasn't been done yet. There's nothing here to investigate. The Federal Government with these two ministers is responsible. And we have to ask for this! I do not understand, however, that a spectacle is being made again, so to speak. The Committee of Inquiry is a serious instrument and should grasp where political responsibility has to be established. It has been made clear here, therefore a committee of inquiry is not necessary.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e20226	Mr Wabl has now been mentioned. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Gredler.]] No, I wouldn't have called you anyway, Mrs. Dr. Gredler!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e20253	Mr President. Before I start my speech, I would officially apologize to you for my comment. But now to the committee of inquiry, which Mrs Aumayr calls for. Mrs Aumayr! They should not always expect that Khol will prevail in the coalition and automatically reject any committee of inquiry. I really would not know what we should do in this committee of inquiry. [[Abg. May. Stadler: I can tell you that: the mafia give enough!]] Mrs Aumayr! There is something coming from the Ministry of Food in Italy, and I know that your group is likely to suspect that if something comes from below, it is somehow falsified. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The flesh didn't come from below!]] If there's a witness from there, it says to you: This is from the Italians – you know, foreigners and so on – who knows, the Mafia is not far away and so on. I can already imagine that you said immediately: I'm sure that's shy. That can't be true! But I say to you the following: If this sample had been confirmed by Austrian and Dutch institutes, I would of course have called for a massive and loud response as a green Member: Why did the Minister of Health not immediately warn of the results of an investigation from the Ministry of Food in Italy? I would immediately have called for a committee of inquiry to be set up. Then the questions ask themselves: What did she want to cover? Did she want to cover the AMA? Did she want to cover the meat industry? The agriculture? Who did she want to cover? Who wanted to protect her? You can discuss Mrs Prammer's choice of words – I would have chosen other words. In principle, however, it is true that the Minister responsible for consumer protection, when a food ministry from a neighbouring EU country reports that prohibited substances are contained in meat that are harmful to health and carcinogenic. In my opinion, this is a matter of course! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smolle.]] Mr Smolle! I don't understand you either! Mrs Aumayr! It is always the problem in such situations that a whole industry suffers. What can the Austrian cattle farmers do to ensure that there has been this BSE scandal in England? We do not want to discuss this anymore. But what can all Austrian agriculture do for this? Mrs. Aumayr! But no word was lost about the tragedy today, not even by Mr Schwarzböck or by Mr Smolle. Do you have the comment of Mr. Walter Müller on Thursday, the 10. September, with the title "Swein Had" read? – I quote: "Pharmacies and the veterinarians, in pigs' breeding, in the pig's mast, in the chicken mast, are being moved past the pharmacies." – I say to you: There are some in this area that do not resist and believe pressure in the EU, that they must at any price reduce the means of production and produce at all costs. And that's breaking up an entire industry! Of course, there are also the politically wrong conditions. But you didn't talk about it today. Let me tell you again: Better a word too much by Mrs. Prammer than a dead person or a sick person by broken, corrupt meat contaminated by hormones or medicines in Austrian stores! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Where does the meat stored in the AMA come from?]] Mr Stadler! Please make a request or ask a Committee on Agriculture to consider why beef is frozen for two years and for longer! You're right! This, of course, is also a matter of concern to health. But what does this have to do with Italian affairs now, what does it have to do with the fact that a ministry has obviously led false reports and false information to Vienna? What's that got to do with it? Mrs Aumayr! Let me tell you again: Trust You're on it: Parliament is now deprived of control! But the chole won't go to the well forever!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e20333	There is no more word message for this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote, and we shall vote on Mrs Aumayr's request for the setting up of a committee of inquiry on the subject. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a corresponding sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e20370	I would also like to say that at today's sitting, the self-employed were brought in applications 877/A to 889/A (E). Question No 4886/J to 4934/J has also been received. Finally, there is also a request from Mr Mag. Karl Schweitzer and comrades were brought to the President of the National Council. Request within the meaning of § 99(2) GOG
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e20397	I also declare that, in connection with the self-employed application 885/A, the Court of Auditors' special examination of the special examination of the Federal Chancellor's Office and the other Federal Ministries concerning the execution of all the provisions of service, remuneration and pension law, a request by 20 Members within the meaning of § 99 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. This provides for the legal conditions for the Court of Auditors to carry out this examination without the decision of the National Council. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] Statement on the absence of a Member
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00139_d7e20427	Mr Wabl! I'm making a statement now. I note that Mr Peter Rosenstingl has left this sitting unpunished. The next meeting is a business assignment meeting, which I convene for immediately, following this meeting, before 23:19 p.m. This meeting is closed.
