ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e2266	Ladies and gentlemen! It's 9:00, and I'm opening the 145. Meeting of the National Council. The official protocols of 141. Meeting of 7. ==References====External links== Meeting of 8. In October, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. As prevented, MEPs are reported Dr. Schwimmer, Zweytick and Haidlmayr. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e2300	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the resolution of the Federal President concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following communication: Ms. Federal Minister for Education and Cultural Affairs Elisabeth Gehrer is represented by Mr. Federal Minister Mag. Wilhelm Molterer. Amendments to the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e2324	Mrs Petrovic's request to table items 2 to 5 of today's agenda is written to me. At the same time, the Members who have been signed call for a debate to be held on these objections. Mrs Dr Schmidt also referred to the Rules of Procedure. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e2348	Mr President. It is known that the Liberals did not agree to this agenda at the last presidential meeting, because they did not accept the different procedures, namely the formal procedure, as is the case with the proposals of the government groups and those of the opposition. It is also known that the Liberals have requested a report from the Minister of the Interior to comment on the Soronics case. I know - and we have discussed this in the President-in-Office - that such a report cannot be enforced. I think, however, that both things together show how the majority in this House and the representatives of the majority in the government are dealing with the opposition and with Parliament's information and control rights. I therefore request that the item on the agenda 9 on the Court of Auditors' report on the construction of the road towards the end of the road be treated as item 2 because it is only in this way that Parliament's control rights can be discussed at a time when the public is still aware of them. Mr President. I would ask – and this request is also submitted in writing to you – to hold an objection debate on this request.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e2385	There are now two requests for a debate or change of the agenda. There are also two desires according to § 50 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, to hold a separate debate. This request shall be accepted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 60 of the Rules of Procedure, the request for the Liberal Forum is the first and the second is to be treated by the Greens. According to § 50 of the Rules of Procedure, I limit the speaking time to 5 minutes, the maximum number of speakers per club is known to be three. The first to speak in the debate on the application of the Liberal Forum is Mrs Dr Schmidt. [[Federal Minister Edlinger leaves his seat on the government bank.]] – Mr Finanzminister, would you stay there for a second? The subject of the debate is the desire to fix item 9 of the agenda as item 2. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e2440	Mr President. Mr. Minister, if you're still here! High house! We know that we Liberals are always taking the Rules of Procedure very seriously, and I am therefore very sensitive to the accusation that the instruments provided for in the Rules of Procedure are being misused. I have heard such an accusation, before I have heard what I have said about it, in the President-in-Office who took place a few minutes ago on the part of the government groups. I would like to address this because it is not my intention to misuse the Rules of Procedure, but quite the contrary: because I value fairness in this Parliament. The fairness also includes the proper use of the Rules of Procedure. But it is also a matter of excluding the limits of the Rules of Procedure when the majority in this House force the minority to do so. And we're in this situation right now. In the last presidential period, when it came to drawing up the agenda, we once again – but it is always more and more uncanny – experienced what different scale – is not the level of content, but the scale of parliamentary action – based on whether they are brought in by the government groups of the House or by the opposition parties of the House. It is clear that the majority will decide what to look like, but that the majority will de facto make their Rules of Procedure. Just as we have a real constitution in this country, which is becoming increasingly distant from the written constitution, it seems to me to be similar to the practice in this House: There is a real business system that has nothing to do with the spirit of the written Rules of Procedure. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] That means, however, for the opposition, that, if one experiences this, one must take particular account of the real tasks of this Parliament, namely also of the control. When the item on the agenda "Endange Tresse" was listed as agenda item 9, it was already something, but I was not quite sure about it. Nevertheless, I have thought that at this point in the agenda, too, we will be able to relate all that is relevant at this time. In the meantime, however, a number of things have happened after we discussed this in the Presidential. In fact, further steps have been taken to show that Parliament's control tasks are that the information rights of the minority in this Parliament, namely the opposition parties, are not taken seriously by the government groups. When the Liberals submitted a request for a report from the Minister of the Interior in the Soronics case, he took note of this, but did not comply with it. I know that such a report cannot be enforced. I'm just wondering: How should a Parliament comply with its control rights if the information provided by those who have it is not given to Parliament at all if we have to read in the paper that the current Minister of the Interior is showing the former Minister of the Interior at the public prosecutor's office – and if you ask me, is right – because these files are at home? But I see how the ÖVP deals with such things, because when we denounced this data protection violation, Vice-Kanzler Schüssel has had nothing else to do but articulate herself in a very clear way, meaning that it would not be appropriate to soak around here excitedly – that will interest Mrs Rossmann, that she can involve her collection on the language of some men in this house – and has said that it is nothing special that a former minister has files at home. When I hear this, and when I see how ÖVP and SPÖ in the Court of Auditors Subcommittee also have regard to In the end, by walling them, when it came to loading people, when I am now reading – and this letter has just arrived – that the Chief of State of Styria, who prefers to call himself "Chairman of the State", considers that the information given in this Court of Auditors' Subcommittee is absolutely sufficient – and that is what she says only after she has been admonished to reply to a letter from the President of the National Council, I say: It is too late to treat this subject as agenda item 9 at night-sleeping time. This point must be dealt with at a time when there are also listeners in the gallery and can listen to how the majority in this Parliament deals with the minority, at a time when journalists are still present to report on it, because we have no choice but to carry it to the public.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e2495	The next speaker is Mr Kostelka. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e2516	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Dr Schmidt, I did not raise the accusation in the President that the Rules of Procedure are being misused, but I have spoken of a misuse of the Rules of Procedure, and I stick to this observation, because you have found virtually no word in your speech on what is really the subject of this debate, that the economic governance laws should be taken from the agenda, laws to come into force in 56 days. [[Abg. Smolle: missing theme! Theme missing!]] I would therefore ask you to understand that I assume that you are in line with the old Austrian principle: Learn to complain without suffering! practice here in Parliament as well. [[Abg. May. Peter: You are at the wrong debate! That's embarrassing!]] The opposition in this House has rights, as it hardly exists in another Parliament. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Khol.]] [[Contradict with the liberals.]] At a club strength of five members, there are rights, as in no other Parliament. [[Abg. Wabl: On the matter! On the matter!]] They can ask for special meetings, they can ask urgent questions, a non-essential number per meeting year, and they also have other rights that are not available elsewhere. [[Abg. May. Peter: Incorrect note!]] In the Presidential, you were concerned with having 13 points on the agenda by fellow Members Peter; at that time there was no talk of opposition rights and of dealing with opposition control rights. [[Abg. Smolle: In the meantime the Soronics has reported!]] Today, you are essentially addressing the proposals made by Mr Stadler at the time. I assume that this has something to do with how and when something is discussed in the public and what the content of the discussion arguments is. I would ask you to understand that we will not agree to this media procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e2617	Next speaker is Deputy Magistrate. Stadler. We are negotiating the outline of Agenda items 9 and 2. Please, Mr Stadler.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e2638	Mr President. High house! Mr Kostelka, you are quite right to say that the liberals have already called for this change of agenda at the presidential conference which has been preparing this meeting today. At that time, only Mr Wabl supported us, and in the meantime the other political groups have also been told that we need to discuss the way in which the two government parties are dealing with control rights in this House, in a prominent position. Mrs Schmidt is right. Just, Mrs Schmidt, allow me an additional sentence: You should not be constantly upset by the Rules of Procedure if They have been put on the table by these two government parties during the last reform of the Rules of Procedure. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Learn from: If opposition rights are at stake, then the opposition should stand together across all ideological boundaries! [[Abg. Wabl: The agenda is set in the Presidency!]] Mr Wabl, you are quite right – I support you today, I also thank you for your support at the last presidential session – when you say that one has to discuss this red and black handling of Parliament's control rights. We must discuss how the Subcommittee is going, Mr Brix. Mr Brix, who has never noticed otherwise, said that he was opposed to an investigation because this would put the line near the end of the line at great risk. This can be read in the minutes. It is incredible to see such nonsense – only to prevent Parliament from being allowed to control it. Ladies and gentlemen! I say the following to you: As you have done in this House in the Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors on the question of Endensnahe Trase, just as you have dealt with the occupation of the army when you have sent empty leaves to the house – empty leaves, blank copies, there was only a letterhead to see above! . as you deal with it, Mr Luke, we are dealing with a family culprit! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lukesch]] It is currently possible to understand in Vienna's Landtag how you deal with the construction cartel. That is the attitude of this group with which you sit in a boat. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Edler: Who's the chairman?]] This is family culprits, ladies and gentlemen. It is significant that a Vienna representative of the Social Democrats in the Committee does not have any control over it. That's significant. This is your attitude, your democratic, anti-control attitude, which you show here! Anti-democratic attitude in pure culture is that – currently to be understood in Vienna's Landtag in dealing with the building cartel affair that we discovered two years ago! [[Abg. Edeller: Who has the presidency?]] Two years ago, please! We will still have to discuss how justice deals with all these things, but this will bring about a separate discussion. It is only, ladies and gentlemen, to complain that there is no control in this House that one thing is to think about how the government parties deal with government files. A minister, when he retires, takes along the most confidential handifacts. Where's he storing them? – In the party academy of the Austrian People's Party, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Where?]] In the party academy of the Austrian People's Party! This is the Springer Schlößl who stole the ÖVP from a Jewish predecessor. In the party academy...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e2723	Ladies and gentlemen, please...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e2749	Mr President, that is true. I just wanted to tell you about an intermediate call, which building is what party it is about.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e2768	But you can't blame a party for stealing. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Of course!]] Please, I reject this from the Bureau, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e2800	Mr President. It has been stolen massive Jewish assets, and today it is owned by major parties, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President. I think that is disgraceful – I would reject it, Mr President, not my comments on it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Papers not to be sent to Parliament – Mr President, this is also a task to preserve the control rights of the House – can be found in the party academy of the ÖVP, in the party academy of the SPÖ in the Renner Institute, can be found in a denunciant institute such as the DÖW, ladies and gentlemen. That is the reality in this republic! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Novotny.]] This is the reality: Parliament has nothing to control. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: You abuse the immunity!]] Who abuses immunity here, Mr. Novotny? Mr. Nowotny, Professor Jagschitz said...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e2851	Ladies and gentlemen, please speak on the outline of the agenda.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e2866	Mr President, please allow me to respond to your colleague and Comrade Novotny's call. According to Austrian case law, it is permissible to say about this denunciant institute that it is a denunciant institution when it comes to the DÖW. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Incredible! Incredible!]] There's a judgment, I'll pass this judgment on to you. We will support the desire for a change in the agenda, because it was also our concern, and we are pleased that other political groups have already come to grips with it, the way in which it deals with files and the way in which a democratically elected Parliament is dealt with in this country. Everyone gets records as long as they're in the party area of red and black, only Parliament gets no files to be able to exercise its control rights. This is your anti-democratic attitude!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e2911	Mr Dr. Khol came to speak. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e2932	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The debate is about the Liberals' request to present item 9 of the agenda, 'End-of-the-Trace', on the grounds that the Court of Auditors' report can then be debated at a time when the media and the public can still follow it. I do not understand your indignation, Mrs Schmidt. You announced yesterday that you will be making a urgent request to Mrs Hostasch regarding blackmail. If it is really important for you to discuss the report of the Court of Auditors' Subcommittee at a time of media-friendlyness, please do not make a urgent request. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Hans Helmut Moser: One has nothing to do with the other!]] So it's up to you: If you do not make a urgent request today – I assure you, we do not bring in any one – this report will be discussed today at a time when you, as a small group, want to discuss it. In view of the fact that there are no actual corrections in the case of objection debates, Mr President, with your permission, I must reply to the accusation made by Mr Stadler concerning the party academy of the ÖVP that it was stolen as follows: The party academy of the ÖVP is located on the so-called Springer-Gründen, which the Baronin Rothschild heard. These springer grounds were forced to be robbed, called the "Aryanization". [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Stolen!]] In the National Socialist era, there was a Gauschule there. [[Abg. Like Stadler: Stolen!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You stole it!]] In 1945 they were transferred to the public administration, to the city of Vienna. The city of Vienna has operated a dormitory there until 1947. In 1947, the provision procedure was completed, and the Baronin Rothschild, a daughter of the Springer heirs, sold this entire property to the Vienna Volksheime association in 1953. The association "Wiener Volksheime" managed this until 1974, and in 1974 the party academy – that was all voluntary – bought by the Austrian People's Party from the owner association "Wiener Volksheime" for this reason. [[Intervocations with the Freeman and the Abg. Wabl]] [[Abg. Wabl: All voluntary?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Wabl: Since 1947 everything has been voluntary, Mr. Khol?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: 1953!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider:... and the Krauland ACTs removed from the ministry!]] That is to say, these statements were absolutely incorrect and an intentional untruth, because Mr. Stadler precisely knows that it is thus returned according to the Restitution Act, sold – not in 1947 but in 1953 – and bought by the Political Academy in 1974. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Where are the Krauland-acts you have removed from the ministry?]] [[further calls for tender for the liberals]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e3104	The next speaker is Mr Wabl. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e3152	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! For some time now, the ÖVP and SPÖ have loved to put on the agenda very far behind Causen, which they do not want to discuss in the public. This is in itself nothing new in the "quality" of the democratic culture of the ÖVP and its coalition partner. There is nothing new about the fact that applications coming from the opposition are not examined, a result of second and third classes. All this is not new, ladies and gentlemen. However, new is the "quality" that Mr. Khol is offering us here by saying that the opposition could, after all, fail to give up its parliamentary rights. Then we might be able to deal with things at midnight as early as 10 p.m.! He thinks that we might be able to take the debates a little more quickly, because it does not make any sense to discuss them, unless it already matters. However, the highlight of the comments made by the EDP on parliamentary control, parliamentary debates and democratic debates has been contributed by its highest party colleagues in recent days. Mrs Schmidt has already mentioned the enormous fact that Minister of the Republic clearly felt that they could take files home. This process was criticised by the opposition. But what did our "hearty" Foreign Minister and Vice-Chancellor Schüssel say about it? – Cushion literally on the case of Soronics: There's no need to wetter. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: That's true too!]] It's so excited about the opposition, what's this? - Quote. Mr Schüssel has not yet fully understood that it is not entirely in line with the democratic culture of a Western European country that ministers of course take files home. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] He did not fully understand that this has nothing to do with a "snattering". But I have the suspicion that Mr Foreign Minister's language has changed a little in recent times.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e3185	Mr Wabl! We are discussing the presentation of the Court of Auditors' report!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e3200	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would have liked you to point out to Mr Kostelka, who did not fully understand that we are not in the Soronics debate, but in the Ennsnah course. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: But Mr Schmidt has, of course, joined Petrovic's request!]] You just smiled, Mr President. But I would of course like to take note of this criticism. Ladies and gentlemen! A letter from Mrs Klasnic to the House – ÖVP member, the head of state in Styria – whose statement or statement of information in the Control Committee, was repeatedly rejected in the Court of Auditors’ Subcommittee, with Mr Wurmitzer and Mr. Lukesch setting up an elegant "Pimperl Wall" or "Snatter Wall" – or as you would like to say – in order to prevent the woman from providing information here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lukesch.]] The President of the National Council wrote a letter expressing to his stranger that the members of the Styrian state government did not provide any information in a causa which directly concerns the federal administration. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Wrong!]] This letter is answered as follows: Your letter I take from you that you had expected an answer to your letter from July. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] . So you have to write a letter twice to the woman's head of state so that she understands that this house would like to have an answer. Don't sniff around, Mr. Wurmitzer! Control is yours! That's what Mr. Khol is doing. What's he got his Academy for? – There will be checked who is an agent and who is not. There it controls who is a decent citizen and who is not a decent citizen. The ÖVP has its own institutes to do so! She has her own army news service, which has no legal basis at all! What do we need a parliament here, ladies and gentlemen? Mr Wurmitzer, don't take that much. Become a member of the army intelligence service! There you can continue unhindered Making your shameless driving, you don't need the control of this house, because you don't need control... [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e3261	Please put to the conclusion, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e3276	Ladies and gentlemen! Professor Lukesch! Go to Tyrol and tell You're the Tyroleans, like you're here with the...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e3301	The speaking time is over. [[I would like to congratulate the Greens for the Abg, which leaves the speaker's desk. Wabl.]] The next speaker is Mr Barmüller.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e3331	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Once again, it was held by my side: We are concerned solely with the outline of the agenda so that we can talk about the report on the report by the Court of Auditors' Subcommittee on the final step here in the House rather than at midnight at a time when we can still make public and also make it available to a wider public that parliamentary control in this House is not allowed by the government groups and by the representatives of the government groups – these are those of the ÖVP and the SPÖ. Ladies and gentlemen! It is true that Mr Wabl and I, together with my colleague Mr Smolle and Mrs Motter, all of us in the Subcommittee on the End of the Road have experienced the fact that there is no wish to control events in this context. It has become clear in this committee that there are illegal operations to be carried out by party members and party members, in particular the ÖVP, but the non-loading of information has not allowed them to be informed. [[In the case of the Liberal Forum as well as the Abg. Dr. Petrovic.]] In that respect, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Kostelka's criticism must also be rejected, because it is not our concern to use the Rules of Procedure here in the House in a way that is somewhat instrumental, unlike what has been the case in the Presidency, but because we simply want to achieve that, if you do not allow parliamentary control in that country to be discussed at least at a time when it is possible for people in Austria to be able to take a picture of it, and not to be ashamed of the spirit of the night, knowing that it will be in the Minutes, but that it cannot really be made public. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] This is our concern, and in so far as we are also demarcating ourselves from the winery repetitions of Mr Stadler, who repeatedly complains that the possibilities for fruitification, which the Rules of Procedure still contained before the reform, have now been lost. Mr Stadler will have to note that it is not only a matter of speaking here at the speaker's desk, but also of what is being said at the speaker's desk, and this has never been a good contribution from your side, Mr Stadler, as you know. [[Accompaniment at the Liberal Forum]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's right!]] [[Further call of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is true that the Subcommittee of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, which has affected the Ennsnahe Trasse, Mr Wurmitzer, I hope you will also comment on this, has not allowed former road builders of Styria, such as Mr Krainer, but also the current head of state, Klasnic, to come to the committee and report there. It was true that Mr Hirschmann and Mr Wielinger, both of them from Styria, came to the committee, but in important preliminary questions refused any information on the question of having to deal exclusively with this in national competence. They know, however, that nature conservation issues, although national, are an essential part of the Causa Ennsnahe trail. The fact that there has been no support from the country level, but that the gentlemen come to Vienna, but they are hiding here, is something which should not be accepted by you, Mr Wurmitzer, in the interests of Parliament's reputation. [[Abg. Wormitzer: That's not true!]] [[Abg. Wormitzer: That's not true!]] [[Abg. Wormitzer: Nothing's right!]] But you have been silent about allowing the gentlemen to behave in this way. It is already surprising – Mr Wabl has already done it – that Mrs Klasnic has to write a letter twice so that she understands that this is an approach which is not acceptable. If it considers that letters from the President of the National Council are simply and simply not to be answered, but to be put off, it shows that cooperation between the political groups is not guaranteed in this House in the sense of parliamentary control and is not deliberately authorised by the government groups. Ladies and gentlemen! The establishment of control instruments, in particular the possibility of the use and use of research committees – as an example – or such control committees by the minority in the home, is necessary. In order for this to become possible, however, the majority in this House must give their consent to it, and this consent you refuse us. You have therefore long refused effective parliamentary control with your two-thirds majority. In the context of the report of the Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors on End-of-the-Day trajectory, we do not want to discuss this as Agenda item 9, but as Agenda item 2. We therefore ask you to agree to this amendment. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e3434	The next speaker is Mr Wurmitzer. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e3455	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! If there were any further evidence to suggest how Mr Wabl intended to deal with the dignity of Members in committee, you would have received a taste of it today. I can tell the House that the government groups have in no way violated the provisions of the Rules of Procedure or of the Rules of Procedure. A total of 22 persons were invited to the Committee and there was sufficient opportunity to consult and obtain information. [[Abg. Wabl: What you think is enough, Mr Wurmitzer!]] [[Abg. Wabl: What the ÖVP suffices! That's enough!]] Mr Wabl! I was not even able, but several times, to protect people from you because you did not recognize the limits of what is reasonable to a human being. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] They have significantly exceeded the limits of good taste as well as much more that of personal feasibility in many cases. At the last meeting of the Committee you referred to the representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ as "Nazis"! [[Abg. Wabl: Such a fool! Such a fool!]] As the founder and carrier of this Republic of Austria, we do not need to be represented or represented by representatives as Nazis! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] In some cases, they have used very miserable methods to help people speak in the Committee who have no right to speak. You have a...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e3520	Mr Wurmitzer! Understandably, they have resisted an accusation. That is what you have done, but now the outline of the agenda is the subject of the debate.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e3535	For this reason, we have no need to change the agenda at all. You have the opportunity to discuss this subject in detail here in the House, and you also have the opportunity to influence the timing by shaping the discussion accordingly.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e3569	Next speaker is Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e3590	Ladies and gentlemen! The Greens and the Liberal Forum are now larmoyantly complaining of what is actually happening in this Parliament, namely that the government parties are going beyond all the wishes of the opposition, that they are going to end up with unpleasant agenda items so that the public can only not listen. In addition, it is always happening in Parliament that control is 'turned off'. Only: They are the ones who have always made themselves the water carrier of the government. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We would expect you – from the Greens and from the Liberals – to exercise much more together with us these control rights, which they deplorably complain about today. You don't do that! [[Abg. Wabl: We have experienced this in the history of the Kurds!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] But most of the time you are doing the work of the government, Mr Oillinger! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Wabl: We have experienced this in the Kurd history!]] But I can assure you that I too am very sorry that there is no report by the Minister for the Interior today, because it would be urgent to talk about what structures in the Ministry of the Interior are still upright. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Wabl]] For it is not an isolated case that files are taken home in the Ministry of the Interior, but that seems to be a specific feature of the Ministry of the Interior. Those who have been here in Parliament for a long time may recall that there was once the affair of Lucona and Udo Proksch. At the time, Blecha was the Minister of the Interior, and he did not take the files home himself, but he had files taken home. And do you know who's through? – By the current managing director of the Social Democratic Party, Mr Rudas! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Jö!]] Mr Rudas has been asked to take home a very unpleasant act, and only through an indiscretion of his wife has it been known that this act has been kept in the frozen compartment of Rudas for years. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Incredible!]] I can already see that...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e3690	The same thing I said to Mr Wurmitzer, I also ask Mrs Partik-Pablé to pay attention to: We are discussing the definition of the agenda.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e3716	We are also discussing the fact that Parliament cannot exercise the control rights that there has been no report by the Minister for the Interior. Mr President. I think it's unpleasant for you now...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e3738	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I am not at all unpleasant, but I am in favour of the Rules of Procedure, and this applies to all the political groups.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e3759	I very much regret that we do not have the opportunity to discuss a report by the Minister of the Interior, who, of course, would have been on the agenda today if there was an opportunity in the Ministry of the Interior to take files home. Mr President, the...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e3777	This is the second call on the matter.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e3796	It must be allowed to talk about it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Parliament must, of course, have the opportunity to control incidents, as they have happened, and I do not see at all why they are blocking red and black, why they did not join forces with us, that the Minister of the Interior is presenting here today in a report why there has not yet been any structural measures to prevent the possibility of acts disappearing, in the Ministry of the Interior...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e3829	I call on the matter for the third time and withdraw the floor, Madam President. [[I would like to congratulate the liberals for the Abg, who left the speaker's desk. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e3874	Mr President. High house! The debate is already taking strange forms, and I would like to start by referring to Mr Wurmitzer's comments. Mr Wurmitzer! If you really believe that the abuse of majority voting in a committee is not to be criticised only because of the fact that a committee can of course vote, then this is quite bad. [[Abg. Wormitzer: What's the abuse?]] [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] But if you don't think that's a problem if you don't have anything to hide, why are you afraid to discuss these items as a second item on the agenda? [[Abg. Wormitzer: Not at all!]] [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Not at all!]] [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] If you have nothing to hide, you don't have to fear the discussion either! The fact that you manage this in committee is bad enough, but the Committee is confidential and not public. If this were to be extended to the second part of the agenda, we would have the opportunity here to make public as you make your strange – carefully said: strange - black officials and councillors in the committee the wall. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] It is also remarkable how you can protect a head of state Klasnic, who is not even able to understand letters from the President of the National Council correctly, but can only reply in a second run and then formulated this answer without shame. I would like to say this clearly: shameless! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. That was the final paragraph of Mrs. Klasnic's letter, and this is remarkable enough. Besides – in comparison – the statement of the vice chancellor's key to the affair of Soronics and also Rudas – is quite right! - Just as touching. [[Call:Rudas]] However, it is also very illuminating – as illuminating as Wormitzer and Maitz now – that he meant: The fact that illegal procedures take place regularly in all ministries should not excite anyone that is "not to be wet". - O-tone bowl. Mr President. That's quite the same thing. I therefore ask you not to give me a call to the matter if I say to you: We are talking about the same sense of democracy, and we must move as an opposition party to the agenda. We must look at the agenda when we have the opportunity to show our political deficits. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] You know exactly that we are not doing the agenda, but the President-in-Office's agreement. There we are no stronger than we are. All opposition parties combined are no stronger than the government parties. At least then, we can use one more debate to complain about the fact that the debate is not being debated in this House, which is up-to-date. It would have been right, for example, if Mr. Schlögl had come by himself and made a statement or if the Federal Minister for Finance had come by himself and told us something about banking supervision. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] If you do not encourage such a thing and it does not happen, then you must take note of it painfully, however, it cannot even debate it in an objection debate. We cannot, but we must point out that we cannot do so, Mr President. That is why we are using other democratic deficits, namely those on the agenda today. The fact that the ÖVP is a sufficient party, which takes democratic control, has now spoken around. Mr Wurmitzer said that it would have been enough to question 20 people. The fact that 20 others have been rejected, namely the actual knowledge carriers about the scandal about the strange administrative processes in Styria at the Ennsnahen Tresse, has also satisfied him. This may even have been satisfactory for him, as it has prevented the really relevant questions from being answered. I mean, in a Parliament in which the majority of governments are so afraid of the truth that it uses every instrument – quite rightly within the framework of the Rules of Procedure and quite right in the formal sense – to strangle discussions, democracy is not the best thing to do. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e3985	Mrs Dr. Petrovic. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e4006	Mr President. High house! The Liberals' request calls for a presentation of item 9 on the Court of Auditors' report on Ennsnahe Trase, and, of course, Mr President, would have been discussed at an attractive time on parliamentary control in the course of a debate on the route close to the end. Now it's just a short debate. Mr President. High house! I do not know if this is just what we see, and I do not know if you are so sure that you, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, will be in the government at all times, but this is already achieving a certain density: since three legislative periods no investigation committee; not in the Kurdish murders – with elegant support of FPÖ, but anyway – not to the banking proporce, although there is already the next banking scandal, not too many other incidents that would be truly worth an investigation. What did they tell us then? – There is no Rules of Procedure, no protection for persons and witnesses. We have created these Rules of Procedure. It didn't use anything. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: On the matter!]] Then it said: You will be given other instruments to provide information in such cases as the Ennsnaher Tress, namely the Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors as a so-called small committee of inquiry. [[Abg. Haigermoser: It is about the outline of the agenda!]] And then the woman, the head of state, told us, she recommends to the honourable Member that they should not waste their time with such accusations. There has also been a lot of money wasted. There is a completely unlawfully built bridge in the landscape, there were crimes in the background – and I know what I am talking about – false opinions, office Zottl and Erber, two different opinions from the same day, covered by Mrs. State Captain Klasnic and the State Administration. But Parliament is wasting its time. [[Abg. Haigermoser: outline the agenda!]] It has been said that we are creating the Control Committees STAPO, Heeres News Services. Mr President, what act has ever been debated there? – Apparently, the files are no longer in the administration, because they...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e4060	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) They were in the process of holding a business debate in the President-in-Office's office. This applies to all political groups.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e4075	I may also have the wrong note like Mr Kostelka. That's on my note. But, of course, to the end of the line, it is clear that precisely these control instruments have clearly failed. There have been a three-digit million-height disappearance of taxpayers. One has created a risk of life for potential users of this unbuilt road, and one is now also being ridiculed as a Member of a head of state who explores who has the responsibility for federal roads. She can do this because she knows anyway that the government parties are covering them. And then the government parties are setting up an agenda on which this item, in which a long debate could take place, is item 9 – at some point, below that. Then the call will be given to us: If you don't use any other instruments, then this point may come a little earlier! Ladies and gentlemen! This also shows how far this house has gone from what the people consider important. Do you really think that in the population anyone understands that we are talking about the food management law, about the energy steering law, the oil supply and reporting law and also about the situation of the tourism and leisure industry before the question of the waste of tax resources before the question of files in the night box before the question of the Kurdish murder before the question of the banking proporze is clarified? - No human understands that! Mr Khol! In the context of a short debate, I lack the time to carry out the more precisely, but also the refusal of control on questions of arrogance, the continued injustices...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e4102	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e4118	They will certainly not come around for this control, at a reasonable time of day!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e4145	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e4166	Ladies and gentlemen! In this debate, there is already something to be noticed about the confusion of the government parties here in this House: Mr Kostelka refers to the wrong request, Mr Khol gives good advice to do so if one wants to discuss an important question from Parliament, namely the control of the government, here at a time that is appropriate to this issue, Mr Wurmitzer makes the wall to his minister and does not want to "snat" at a proper time. Ladies and gentlemen! This shows your problem that you have here in this House. As representatives of the people, you should actually sit here and exercise control, do your job, which you have received from the electorate, and not play a majority role for the Federal Government. [[Complaints with the liberals]] But that has always been your problem with all these control instruments. The same was true of the Committees of Inquiry, whose establishment is still not minority law as in other parliaments, but where you can prevent all controls, all investigations with your two-thirds majority. Mrs Petrovic! If you play so big and you're sorry about that now, I'll remind you: That was your desire, too. Why did you agree to these Rules of Procedure? The main thing is to cut off the free speech time and urgent questions and special sessions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] You have found yourself in order to continue to vote in favour of the fact that the Committee of Inquiry remains a majority right, Mr Wabl. At the time, you have been fed out with this Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wabl.]] They all agreed here: This is the control instrument now. This would allow the control which cannot be carried out through the committee of inquiry. We are now seeing, ladies and gentlemen, what is going on with this Subcommittee on the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Nothing happens! No control is possible. And if there is a result, it will be negotiated at some point at mid-night and we are opposed to making a change in the agenda. I remember very well – Mr Wabl, you were there too – when we first set up this subcommittee, in order to control the federal army's procurement system. At that time – only briefly, because there seems to have been some kind of confusion among the government parties – a self-conception is flickered as a people's representative, even with the honourable Mr Wurmitzer. Even this - which was unanimously - said at least at the first meeting: Yes, we want to control! Of course, we want to get file information. The documents must be submitted to us. Information needs to be invited. We're going to control! - Wonderful. In short, it is flattered, this self-conception as a people's representative, even with Mr Wurmitzer. Wonderful! Only then, apparently, did the appropriate instructions come from above, and it was no coincidence that it had just met Mr Wurmitzer. At the time, it was the Minister of Economic Affairs and the Minister for Defence and those questions that were raised in the procurement sector, such as the criteria for the award of contracts and the award of contracts. Thus, this flickering of a self-conception as a people's representative is immediately according to the motto "Don't snatter!" – nor in committee – nor “do not control”! This is the first time we have been suppressed. At the next meeting, there was suddenly no more case study. No, no briefing, only reports will be submitted to us, reports that we can then discuss, reports from those who are being controlled. That's about when a financial auditor came to a company and the audited person there says: Yes, my dear friend, I'm not going to let you look in. You can have a report from me. You can control it, and then we can discuss it! [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's how it was at the Riegerbank!]] – This is the control of à la Wurmitzer. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Then we got confidential documents. Confidential – these were empty leaves on which the stamp had been printed "confidential". These were the original documents. Then there was the question of confidentiality. The Minister for Economic Affairs, even if this committee is confidential, has said that he does not give any information, because he has no confidence that Members, representatives of this House, will respect this confidentiality. There was also an opinion from the Economic Research Institute, which we received only after long discussions. At the same time, we knew that President Maderthaner had gone home in his Chamber of Commerce with just this opinion. Ladies and gentlemen! This is the question we would have to discuss prominently: What understanding of your function have You yourself as elected Members? Do you understand that you are here to control the government?
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e4223	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e4238	Or do you have such an understanding that you are a majority in this House? – This is your responsibility, and you should clarify it as quickly as possible!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e4269	The debate is closed. The vote will take place at a later date. I would like to interrupt the meeting very briefly and ask the presidents of the club to meet me.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e4296	I'll start the interrupted session again. Amendments to the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e4323	We shall come to the second objection debate, as a separate debate on this two request was called for by five Members. The second proposed amendment reads as follows: The Members proposed that points 2 to 5 of today's agenda be taken from the 145 agenda. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) First speaker is, as I suppose, the applicant. - Will someone else be nominated? Van der Bellen or Petrovic? Please, Mrs. Dr. Petrovic.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e4351	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We know from the Green Group that there is no way for the opposition to obtain an opinion from the Minister on a particular item on the agenda. We have in some cases the impression that it would probably be better not to use opposition instruments in the narrowest sense, such as urgent requests, in order to be able to discuss a certain current point. The Rules of Procedure give us a single opportunity for such a desire, which we think is a matter of course, and which we must also insist on in the light of the state of the control rights of the Austrian Parliament. The Rules of Procedure allow us only to make a balance between the urgency of various items of the agenda and, as we now ask, to submit to the House a request for the setting of agenda items for decision. If, among other things, the food management law is cited in these economic governance laws, whose withdrawal from the agenda we are requesting, I do not think that the Green Opposition Group is just asking itself how government parties deal with democracy. When, in times when the shelves are bending in the shops in front of food, we know that, in the course of international trade, there is no fear of even the spark of any danger of security of supply, but also of food... [[Abg. Dr. Haider: A lot of poverty!]] There is poverty, certainly, but this is a problem of distribution, which is – at least I hope – no problem of food management in this country. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: There is a lot of poverty, Mrs. Colleague!]] If such a law is on the agenda in the most prominent place and if, on the other hand, one takes a look at the daily newspapers and compares what current topics are being dealt with there, if one also listens to the discussions that are being held on the street and recognizes what is really on the heart of the people at the moment, then one considers that the Republic of Austria – not only the parliamentary opposition – should have an interest in talking about it prominently. I do not know whether the Bureau or any member of the Federal Government believes that it is at the end of 1998 that priority number one is to talk about food management, while at the same time we hear that bankers are on the run, come back and report on decades of counterfeiting of balance sheets. The whole country is talking about Austria. Here there may really be a risk of an industry. If the Austrian banking sector continues to be in a state of talk and there seems to be no control here, then we can have the most excellent food management law, and in the same way our economy as a whole is not doing very well. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If you continue to deal with the fact that what is being debated and important in all the public is either not discussed here at all or by the conduct of national authorities such as Mrs Klasnic – at the same time as an increase note to the whole Parliament – is blocked, but at the same time not even in the context of the agenda, those points where there is a possibility to talk about control, as is the case in the Liberals' request, and if it is not even a matter of course that members of the government are taking their views on topicalities from here, then I really ask you what is being done in relation to the respect of this House by the government parties, then I really ask you whether you believe all seriously that you are doing a good service to the reputation of this House and also to those of the government parties if you are giving food management control in the banking sector.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e4411	The next speaker is Mr Kostelka. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e4433	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Petrovic, it is not about rowing back Agenda items 2 to 5, but about how you can read your own request to stop it. In my view, Mrs Schmidt has joined this request. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: No! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no! This is]] We will see in the minutes whether this is the case or not. That was the reason for my remark. The second thing I need to see in this context is the following: Mrs Petrovic, you are worried that the Austrian banks could get into the debate. What you were doing here today would be exactly a contribution, because it is clear that it will be possible to control when and where there has been painting in this context, and that the political consequences of this House will also be affected. In fact, there is a great need for information on how a billion schillings – the current state of the information – have flown into dark channels and whether they are speculations in this context, in criminal ways or in both. That's to be examined! It is also necessary to examine the place where it could have been noticed that there has been a corresponding criminal act here. All that is available at present is the knowledge that there is an unheard-of large amount of documents, facts and extracts from the accounts and accounts, which we have not yet seen and cannot be evaluated. A debate on this issue would therefore hardly do anything. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! One last comment: Don't pretend you couldn't read the Rules of Procedure exactly. In this context, they always address the right of a member of the Federal Government to make at any time a statement before the National Council on issues which are not on the agenda. This right of members of the government is also a right of the House and a right of minorities in this House: In fact, § 19 concerning the declaration of the members of the government is opposed to § 93, that is, to urgent requests. You have simply and simply decided what you will do with this Parliament day: They have decided that Members Kier, Peter and partners are making a urgent request to the Ministry of Social Affairs concerning government money in the Black Labour Act. This is your first choice. You have made your decision and therefore, in essence, do not want to discuss another subject. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: The wrong speech again!]] [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: We didn't put any urgent ones!]] Do it tomorrow! They are free in this context. Do it tomorrow! You can freely decide whether to make an appropriate request. You can value, politically value – you, and no one else! We don't want to take this off!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e4498	The next speaker is Mr Trattner. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e4519	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kostelka! It is not so much about how much has disappeared and where it has disappeared, but about it... [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: But what you talked about in downtown bars with Mr Rieger!]] It is about, Mr Kostelka – read the Banking Act! – it is about the supervisory resources of the Federal Minister for Finance and who acted negligently in this case. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: You are a friend of Mr. Rieger! What about the apartments? Talk about the really interesting things!]] That's the question! This is clearly regulated in the BWG. The Federal Minister for Finance must verify compliance with the rules. It has to check, first of all, that there is a functioning banking law in the national economic sense. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Not at Rosenstingl! Has the financial adjustment in Lower Austria been over the Riegerbank?]] Stop interrupting me! I only have five minutes, you can then speak again. [[Further calls of the Abg. Dr. Kostelka.]] Mr President. Who is speaking now: Colleague Kostelka – or me?
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e4578	I call Mr Trattner.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e4597	Secondly, it is also a matter of ensuring appropriate creditor protection, with the banking supervision having two functions: The first function of banking supervision is to issue a concession. The Ministry of Finance shall issue a notice when the concession is issued in accordance with § 4 and § 5 of the Banking Act. Who then made the decision? Who then came to the Ministry of Finance with the registration for an exchange rate concession? – It was Her former clubman, former Member and current judge at the European Court of Justice Willi Fuhrmann. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's it!]] He was the real trigger for the wrong registration of the Ministry of Finance. That's a question. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In such a case, the National Bank should also be heard. Obviously, the National Bank has also given its approval in this case. And if an institution... [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Did you discuss this with the Rieger at nightbars?]] Read the BWG, then you can discuss it with me! As long as you don't know the banking law, you don't have to discuss it with me at all. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Leikam: The Rosenstingl!]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: I don't want to be your financial agent!]] You can only make stupid calls, nothing else. Take a look at your own door! Whoever is sitting in the glass house is not supposed to throw stones! To the next point: If a monetary institution receives deposits, then also according to § 93 para. 2 BWG to inform the deposit guarantee. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: Did you also present this to the Rosenstingl?]] Did these three instances work? - You didn't work. The last time – in the case of the BHI – the objection was expressed that the State Commissioner could not intervene because the BHI had a balance sheet of less than 5 billion schilling. Mr Stanzel from the Ministry of Finance has disappeared with this excuse. However, if you read the BWG, you will find a section that says that in case of danger in default – and our knowledge, the Ministry of Finance has refunded some ads against the Riegerbank – there is the possibility of using a government commissioner. This government commissioner has higher powers than the state commissioner. In contrast to the government commissioner, the State Commissioner can object only to organ decisions. The government commissioner himself may, under the Banking Act, immediately decide that, in the event of danger, appropriate steps will be taken in default and therefore the worst will be turned away. Where was the top control, namely banking supervision? - Nowhere was she. This can only happen because, although all of these cases are regulated in the Banking Act, you are passing the Banking Act and the control instruments available to the Banking Supervision are not perceived at all. If anything happens, there's a huge memory.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e4691	Deputies! You will be able to make a reference to the item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e4707	The reference to the item on the agenda is very well made. The question is that the points I have referred to are very important: What happened when registration in the Ministry of Finance? What has happened in the Ministry of Finance over the course of the ten years? How could ten years of balances be faked in a scale of up to one billion schillings? In the supervisory authority of the Ministry of Finance there are high-paid officials. Each one of them looks away and says: For God's sake, something has happened again! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Checking Once you have these legal regulations! Please comply with your supervisory duty before you begin to polemise here, colleague Kostelka!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e4746	We are continuing to negotiate the request to withdraw the economic governance laws from today's agenda. Mr Dr. Khol came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e4770	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! legislation and control are the main functions of the National Council. I cannot join the Liberals' request, I cannot join the Greens' request to negotiate – the Greens, I have just said – to withdraw these very important economic governance laws from the agenda today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Peter]] I do not understand this request at all, and I would like to ask Mr Van der Bellen, whom I appreciate as a serious expert, how he can justify the fact that we are dealing with these three, four or five laws, which are part of the basic economic security of this country, and which, fortunately, we do not have to use, but which constitute the crisis instrument of that country, which is simply to abolish these constitutional laws. I don't understand! My group is deeply interested in the security of the country. We want to discuss and decide on these laws. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] But I do not understand the liberals, nor the liberals, nor the Greens. There are three important instruments in the Rules of Procedure to present to the National Council up-to-date issues to be discussed. These three instruments are available on each first meeting day of a week. One of them is the current hour. No one has prevented the liberals from using this instrument when banking supervision is important to them. And I understand it, because banking supervision is also important to us. We have used the available tool for asking the Minister of Finance on banking supervision. This instrument is obviously not important to you, otherwise you would have asked the head of banking supervision today, and we could have discussed it. But no, you didn't want to. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Des Rosenstingl!]] But I don't understand the liberals either. If you are concerned about the question of the protection of secrets in this country, as it is about the rights of the state police, if you are concerned about why a 70-year-old old minister can have a copy of a document at home, then please make it You will use the second instrument available today: the urgent request. – No, you don’t want the urgent request! [[Abg. Dr Schmidt: It is not about our question, but about Agenda items 2 to 5! The debate was before!]] A third instrument is also available: the deadline. There are so many answers or requests in the house that could be used to use this instrument of opposition. On the current question, too, certain requests for improvement of the control which the opposition has indeed introduced would have had the possibility of setting deadlines. They could have been brought to the discussion at 5:30 p.m. – No, one does not want to use partout of these control instruments of the opposition, which can take almost half of the available consultation time in one day, but wants to intervene in the time that the National Council needs to legislate. I don't understand! Ladies and gentlemen, we will therefore not join these objections. However, I would like to conclude by stressing the importance of financial control and banking supervision. It is very important that this financial control also works with the political parties. I hereby inform you that the liberal economic and industrial spokesman Thomas Prinzhorn, the financial controller in the Rosenstingl scandal and in the scandal of the Lower Austrian party finances, withdraws immediately from all functions in the Freedom Party and also lays down his mandate.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e4880	The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e4902	Mr President. High house! It seems that this second objection debate is taking place in a somewhat more generous way in the handling of the call for action, because, at last, very important things have been tailor-made. However, as far as the concerns of the Greens are concerned, I must say: Formally, I do not understand much about the lack of agenda items. I would have an idea of how we could deal with these agenda items. The fundamental guarantee of the Republic of Austria in these materials, which is so often conjured, is a revolving and evenly recurring formal procedure for the extension of fixed-term constitutional laws. Mr Khol! If you take seriously what you have said here, then we are making these items on the agenda on the so-called economic governance laws, which, as has been said, are just a formal extension of temporary constitutional laws, a very short debate. Let us consider whether it is not enough for each group to explain what it is all about in this matter so that we can proceed to the vote quickly. This could also best reflect your concerns and concerns of Mr Wurmitzer, namely that the Committee on the Rules of Procedure's report on the Ennsnah track will be discussed as soon as possible in this House, during the daytime hours, so that not only the media representatives, but also possibly the audience sitting on the gallery will hear how it really is in committees. This is the material concern of the Greens' request for these agenda items to be withdrawn. Formally, I cannot win much of this because I believe it is not favourable to shorten an agenda. It's better to turn them around. Perhaps we can achieve the combination of both concerns by speaking to the economic governance laws as briefly as possible. This would enable us to deal with Agenda Points 2 to 5 at a high pace, and to discuss the report of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure much earlier than some may like. Mr Kostelka! I mean, you actually confused the debate twice today. You spoke about the Green Group's request for a change in the agenda in the first debate, and in the second debate you spoke about our request. That, I would say, may not be worth a call on the matter, but it must be stretched out that it is. To confuse twice is bad – once it is possible, this can happen, but twice in a row is bad. Clubobmann Khol leaves the room because it seems to him... [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I hear you!]] No, I meant Klubobmann Kostelka, who's just leaving the room, because it seems embarrassing to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e4931	That's such a thing today with the confusion.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e4947	That's how I turn to Mr. Khol. They have also expressed their own views on banking supervision. In this sense, a call on the matter will probably also be avoidable, because I must be able to reply in a debate in which the clubman of a government party talks about banking supervision without getting a call for a reply. There is no actual correction or the like, and that is why this is the only way. That is why I would like to address the banking supervision question briefly. Mr Trattner has also spoken about this. If the Liberal Group had not put forward a comprehensive parliamentary question on banking supervision two years ago, I would therefore have the answers of the then Federal Minister for Finance in 1996 – I ask you to think briefly about who it was! – would not have been in writing, in which the Federal Minister for Finance informed us that everything was best and no need for reform in banking supervision could be recognized that supervisory boards in banks which are stock companies are equipped with all the possibilities of this world, that the National Bank, which works so closely with banking supervision, is wonderful... [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Why don't you make a urgent request?]] Mr Khol, because two years ago we asked this question. The answer was intransigent, believe me this: intransigent. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That must have changed!]] It was as insanity as everything the majority parties do here. That is why we felt that unemployment and undeclared work may not be yours, but we are concerned. Mr. Klubobmann Khol! Remember that!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e5010	The next speaker is Mr Deputies Van der Bellen. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e5032	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, particularly Mr Khol. Mr Khol, you know exactly what we are talking about. We wanted a statement by the Minister of Finance on an acute current case. It doesn't happen every day that a bank crashs. You know very well that we have no urgent question today. Please don't blame us for the priorities set by the Liberals today. Mr Kier has just explained why the Liberals have decided not to do so. We wanted a statement from the Minister of Finance. To make room for this, we have requested points 2 to 5 – today! - to stop. These laws have no urgency. Whether we decide on it today, tomorrow or at the next session is completely indifferent. Mr Khol, you know that just as I do. That was practically arbitrary. We could just as well have called for the abolition of Top 6 to 8, in the context of which such interesting things as the Protocol to the Madrid Agreement, adopted in Madrid on 27 May. It is intended to be discussed in June 1989. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Would you have done that!]] All this fits into your policy, which has already been put into space by many speakers. They don't want a discussion about the Ennsnahe track, and if so, it's supposed to take place at midnight. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] They don't want a statement from the Minister of Finance either! I still understand the first case, the second one I don't understand at all. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Which one?]] It is unlikely that the Supervisory Board, the Audit Board, the Banking Supervisory Board, the Justice and Mr Trattner will have to say, clean up and say: We can't do anything for it! The only institution that has done something in this causa for the last ten or 15 years is, in my opinion, the National Bank. Mr Trattner, you have taught us about banking supervision. For this I thank you, I'm going to look at everything, but crocodile tears are completely inappropriate. In December 1996, you submitted a written request to the Riegerbank, which is so dissatisfied with the National Bank. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Right!]] [[Abg. Wabl: Very remarkable, the hardy little savers!]] That's the problem: Especially in this causa, many journalists, from which motives always allow themselves to be captured, also have individual politicians. Mr Trattner, look at this question. Today you will be sorry that you have put it, but then you have taken favor of the Riegerbank party, in favor of an institution... [[Prolonged calls to the liberals.]] Why, I don't know. Mr Trattner will still have sufficient opportunity to justify and justify his behaviour two years ago. I would just like to say the following: It is by no means just that the Minister of Finance is making a statement here about a causa that has played primarily in his house. It cannot be that banking supervision simply acts as if it were not responsible for it. This must be imagined: I'll open a sausage stand, write "Bank" about it. And then what's the flowering thing? – I may get a trial from the District Headship for – as it is said – unauthorized, unauthorized commercial exercise and possibly a penalty of 10,000 S. [[Abg. May. Stadler: If you order the firm Fuhrmann to do so, then it works! Take the law firm Fuhrmann, then you can titulate a sausage stand as a bank!]] That's all happened in Rieger's case. He has actually been punished with 10,000 s.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e5126	Deputies! Jobs Please refer to your own request again!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e5142	We have called for a drop in points 2 to 5, for example the oil supply and reporting law 1982. I do not think it has any priority compared to what we would have liked to hear from the Minister for Finance. Mr President, I understand that you are nervous, but the debate is now over. Hold on for a few minutes. Mr Trattner and others have not expressed themselves so "crazyly" on the matter either. Minister Edlinger will also have to think about it if he takes a position one day if he trusts himself. He is likely to fear a million-height arrest. This is also a problem of banking supervision or of officials employed there. There is also no such thing as a minister. He will also have to comment on the behaviour of justice. It is claimed that there were 17 actions in 1998. But the prosecutor says: Only three of us have arrived! – Is there a Mr. Soronics in the prosecutor's office that takes files home and works there, or is there a mistake with bank supervision? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That was an attack, colleague Van der Bellen!]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] All right, finally. The conduct of justice in this context is at least as indiscriminate as the conduct of banking supervision. Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e5192	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Haider. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e5222	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! We are very interested in hearing the arguments of the government parties as to why it is not possible to change the agenda or to table an item on the agenda. [[Abg. Wabl: Because the Princehorn has resigned!]] I'll explain this to you. The ÖVP speaker has meant that there is the instrument of urgent inquiry, the request meeting, but the opposition does not perceive it. I just wonder why the two government parties did not make use of it, for example, in connection with the Causa Rosenstingl. At that time, the Minister of Justice immediately acted and, contrary to the agreed agenda, gave a report to Parliament. That is exactly what we want today from the Minister for Finance already present! It's nothing else! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] He's already here, he doesn't need to come extra. He only needs to explain to us why, after an audit by the Court of Auditors on our operations in 1994 followed the severe criticism of banking supervision, neither the current Minister of Finance nor his predecessor have since found time to take this serious criticism seriously and to take into account the incidents that have been shown. - Why didn't anything happen? That is why we want the changeover or the decommissioning of the agenda. We want to consider whether a bank supervisor can lead a bank, such as the competent head of the section, who has already been caught, that he has been the head controller of the gambling monopoly at the same time as a director in a casino and has received a million-severe by-catch earnings. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: What was that casino? What casino?]] [[Call to the liberals: Here look!]] There is already a lot about that on the table. We would be very interested to see why it is completely indifferent to the government parties that more than 1,000 small investors are being damaged, who, like the BHI bank, will look through their fingers if they are not allowed to receive any help. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Van der Bellen! Your argumentation in honor, but you seem to have become a lobbyist of the National Bank because you praised the National Bank so much. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Which bank is the Trattner lobbyist at?]] Mr Novotny! Unfortunately, you went along with it: They have become nothing at the European Central Bank for their praise. Let me say the following: Mr Trattner has tabled a question which has not been raised in advance. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: But with certainty!]] Do you know what he built it on? – On a valid OGH judgment! The Supreme Court criticised the Austrian National Bank! If you think that's an injunction, then You are in conflict with the rule of law, but that is the case with Greens. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusions of the Abg. Wabl.]] The Liberals are also very interested in changing the agenda. I think that's all right, because that's how you could see if Mrs Campregher, the friend of Mr Rieger, who is also a LIF official in Upper Austria and who should become a top candidate, made her donation to the LIF from the Rieger Fund or from elsewhere. These too are things to be investigated, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] One could also examine why the Ministry of Finance and the audit did not notice that a few months ago 550 million Schilling were transferred abroad. The Oesterreichische National Bank, which Mr Van der Bellen has just praised, does not at all notice that a bank that has been called for transfers half a billion schilling to money abroad! All this in front of the eyes of the Austrian National Bank! It should not be noticed that banking supervision also applies to the large institutions in question, which are in business...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e5332	What I would like to say to my colleagues Van der Bellen said after 4 minutes, I also say to Dr. Haider.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e5347	Mr President. You are very long - suffering today, I thank you very much. I would have much to say, but that is what I am going to say to my colleagues. Van der Bellen personally in a private conversation so that he knows that he has praised the National Bank for nothing.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e5380	The next speaker is Mr Mag. Peter. Equal time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e5402	Mr President. High house! That was again the hairy thing: First, he throws out his spokesperson because he has his own opinion, and then he defames a Linz entrepreneur. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Call to the liberals: Go!]] It's very exciting: That's Haider pure! Everything runs out so loosely: This is the human image that shows itself. I can only congratulate you, Jörg Haider: You've sunk deep, you've really fallen deep! Mrs Campregher is not a Liberal Forum official, she is not a partner, nor was she on a list; she is an interested person in the liberal form, i.e. she occasionally participates in events. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schweitzer]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: She is a member of you!]] Before condemning Mrs Campregher, I am waiting to see if the arrest or detention in which they were taken for 48 hours was right or not right. That's all I can say. – Only: This way of making politics is really significant and will bring the liberals to where they actually belong, that is to say, to the political point. For the debate: I believe that the Greens have made it very clear with their debate on the subject. They meant that it was about supply security laws, which were equally good on 25 July. ==References== ==References== It will be possible to decide on December. The changes contained in them are minimal. But what is it about, Mr. Klubobmann Kostelka? – Mr Klubobmann Kostelka! They have a partner in the German Bundestag – he is Clubbmann of the Social Democrats in the German Bundestag – and on the occasion of his election he was asked by the press how he would now perform his office. Do you know what he said? – He literally said: As a clubman of the Social Democrats of the German Federal Government, I will look at her fingertips. – That is to say, Mr Kostelka, your colleague in the German Bundestag has understood what Parliamentaryism is that of course control is also a task of the members of the government groups! [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Is that something new?]] [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on Green MEPs.]] You, Mr Khol, and you, Mr Kostelka, do not take this control! Their task is to make the federal government à tout prix the wall, to cover, not to allow for a debate. This is your policy, which I deeply regret. [[New congratulations to the Liberal Forum and MEPs of the Greens.]] In my opinion, it is part of the parliamentary culture of Western democracy, if it does not want to be a state of state with a parliamentary facade, that the Members of this House and, above all, the majority members of this House say on their own: We would like to ask the Federal Minister to provide us with a report on this issue so that we, which we are discussing with the population we are elected by the population we are always in contact with the population, have information about the current day events from the very source – and the crash of the Riegerbank is probably a current day event. The failure of banking supervision is so blasphemous that it smells like heaven! Why Make You're the bank supervisor on the wall? Are you a control Parliament, or are you there to make the government the wall? [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] Uncritical, uninvited, so to speak, as a voice! You, the Members of the Coalition Party, with your own understanding as a Member, ask yourself: Have you been elected as a servant of this government or have you been elected by the Austrian population so that you can look at this government – as the clubman of the Social Democrats in Germany has said –? Ladies and gentlemen! Parliamentaryism in Austria is still very, very underdeveloped; we could learn from many other parliaments in Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e5491	The next speaker is Mr Firlinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e5512	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! If applications by the opposition in the committees are able to be properly avoided for years, it should also be possible among democrats to transfer a matter of law from one session to another for a change. That should be possible among democrats. I have only doubts as to whether the Members of the Government Group are pure democrats, and I have serious doubts about that. Ladies and gentlemen? Why is this matter so important to us? I would like to make this clear: The Austrian financial centre was damaged by this affair of severe material and immaterial damage. However, this is not an isolated criminal case, it is not a criminal case where "only" a banker robbed his bank, it is not only about the fact that, in the strodle of this affair, a second bank is likely to have significant problems, it is not only about which people are threatened existentially, but also about it...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e5531	It is a matter of the agenda, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e5546	... is the question, Mr President, whether all legal supervisory measures have been used up or not. As this issue is so important, I believe that it should be legitimate in democracy to postpone the agenda items by three weeks – no longer, only by three weeks – and thus allow for the corresponding free space for this discussion. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In the end, it is also a question of how small investors were damaged. Indeed, it is known that in the "Kronen Zeitung" savers were advertised with a deposit volume of 50,000 s, which was then sold as well as the Riegerbank bond. I would be interested if, for example, the Federal Securities Supervisory Board had acted in order to look at this drawing prospectus, and so on. So there are a lot of questions about this. [[Abg. Dr. Niederweiser: Mr Firlinger! Are you a small investor or a large investor?]] I do not want to talk about the political refreshments yet, but we need some clarification. It would therefore be important if the Federal Minister for Finance were to speak and answer the House. In the end, I am also concerned with the important and comprehensive issue to be discussed, how in future the Austrian financial centre, which is seriously affected by a wealth of negative circumstances, can be helped back to the jumps. That is why I am primarily concerned, because from the point of view of abroad, but also from the point of view of domestic investors, the Austrian financial centre has to fight with very big image problems. Ladies and gentlemen! It would really be worth a debate that should not be held at midnight. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That is why we are going to make those many questions appear in a clear light, from the deposit guarantee to the failing controls. You would be worth it if Parliament were to take a fundamental approach to this issue and perhaps other things for that purpose – temporarily! – to the side. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e5597	The next speaker was Mr Heindl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e5618	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It's 10.43 now. I have listened to Mr Kier and Mr Van der Bellen, and I believe that we could have come to certain agenda items in due course in the debate. I wonder what we have been discussing for a three-quarters of an hour now, when we have to lose this time for what you criticize and move it into the night. That's what I'm asking myself! – The first. Secondly, Ladies and gentlemen are talking about bank supervision, and I believe that the entire Riegerbank problem would be debateable. I was not present in the presidency, but I specifically asked our clubman if it had not been discussed that this problem might be discussed instead of the tourism report. – Not a word of it! All the political groups agreed that the tourism report should be discussed. I have from the outset been among those who have asked if we could not end this and there were no other points? – No, it was said that it was the wish of all, especially the opposition parties, to discuss the tourism report, as the first item on the agenda. – Agreed, no question at all; why does it turn out? Then we sit down together, set up the agenda, and no one says anything about the issues that were already known before; this concerns both the discussion about Soronics and the whole issue of the Riegerbank. – No topic, the agenda will be decided jointly. All of a sudden, however, it is thought that these reports are not really so important. – I would like to say: I do not wish this country, nor Europe, to take place in any event, for which these five supply laws are necessary. It is also to be said that, under international agreements, we are obliged to remain within the scope of time; we are in agreement on 31 December. ==References====External links== It's not that simple; I don't know, it was Mr Van der Bellen or another colleague of the Green Group who said: Let us decide at the beginning of December! – This is not going to take place in time because, as you hopefully know, it is also approved by the Federal Council. Let's say it again. If we take all of this into account, then we really have to ask ourselves why we have been discussing it for so long today and not already in the presidential a few days ago when we decided on the agenda, when all that was already known, which is being criticized today. [[Abg. Wabl: No, wrong!]] – Not at all, Mr Wabl, I asked myself: The agenda in this form was requested by all the political groups, including that it is item 1. In addition, one opposition group wants this report, the other one. So which agenda should be decided? - You can agree. Now we have been discussing for two hours whether this agenda is good or bad and could not have been done differently. I wonder if we could not have discussed another agenda in the presidency so that today we should not have been wasting two hours in the truest sense of the word by discussing this subject at a so-called good time. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e5654	Mr Dr. Lukesch came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e5675	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! This is already the second debate on the agenda, and the opposition complains that we are not dealing with the report of the Court of Auditors subcommittee in good time. Don't you actually remember what a funny figure you're doing with it? Move through this discussion You yourself deal with the agenda item Ennsnahe Trase until midnight. – This is not to be taken seriously! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I would, however, like to deal with the liberals, so that I do not get a call from the President, who agrees that, according to the liberals, we should deal with the Riegerbank with the Minister for Finance. To this end, I should like to say the following for the Austrian People's Party: We have great interest in the questions of how banking supervision, deposit protection and the function of the Austrian National Bank has or has not worked in its control task. That was also the reason why the ÖVP immediately sent a request to the Minister of Finance to obtain massive information on how to prevent damage to investors or investors. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr. Dr. Haider – I am sorry that he is not present, I would like to deal with him, it will already have his reason why he escaped into the higher filials of this house – weeps crocodile tears here; that is not credible! The Freedom Party has made this ominous Riegerbank several times, has supported it and has tried to support it against appropriate measures taken by the Oesterreichische Nationalbank. [[Abg. May. Stadler: For example?]] Mr Stadler! I would like to give you examples. I just need to read them: ==References====External links== In April 1997 Mr. Dr. Haider noted that the proceedings within the National Bank would be more and more dubious in relation to the conduct of the Riegerbank, because for eight years this Riegerbank has been fighting for a concession granted to it by the Minister of Finance, namely the foreign exchange-trading concession, finally also confirmed by the Oesterreichische Nationalbank, so that it can also move on the international foreign exchange market accordingly. [[Rejoicing at the ÖVP]] – That was Your commitment to Riegerbank, to Mr Rieger. Take You know that! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I quote from a urgent request made by Mr Stadler of 14. May 1997 to see how you try to spread sand to the public, but we will prevent that. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Don't you know what an OGH judgment is?]] This is a request with a corresponding report of reasons, where he refers to this statement by the Ministry of Finance – the granting of foreign exchange rights – and says: [[Abg. May. Stadler: Professor! You should know what an OGH judgment is!]] It appears that the Oesterreichische National Bank has refused authorisation for reasons of non-competitiveness. [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] – That was Your argument for the Riegerbank: She's a fair competitor! Let them be left on the market, let them be exposed accordingly. That was the line of the Freedom Party, colleague Trattner!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e5773	No further words are available. This debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen! We shall now proceed to the votes. Firstly, we shall vote on the request from the Liberal Forum to include item 9 of today's agenda as item 2 in the agenda, thus returning the remaining items on the agenda to one point each. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request from the Liberal Forum to give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall also vote on Mrs Petrovic's request to withdraw points 2 to 5 from today's agenda. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to give a sign. – The request did not find a majority. It remains with the agenda, and there is no change. Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e5825	I declare that, in accordance with Article 93 of the Rules of Procedure, the Liberal Forum's club requested that, before entering the agenda, the written question 5090/J by Mr Dr Kier and Mr Comrades to Mrs Federal Minister for Labour, Health and Social Affairs concerning the "Government Push" should be dealt with urgently. Under the terms of the Rules of Procedure, this urgent question will be called at 3 p.m. Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e5850	We are now arriving at the current hour. The subject is: Reduce taxes – create work First of all, it is not the name of the honourable Member whose name appears in the computer, but it is Mr Magistrate. Trattner. The speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e5894	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Finance! They set up a tax reform commission two years ago and a half ago. At the last meeting of the Financial Committee, we discussed what results will be expected from this Tax Reform Commission. They said there would be a result at the end of November, there would be a final report, but there would be no concept. Mr. Finanzminister, what's the whole thing? What has this tax reform commission had for a year and a half? – You have obviously given her only one requirement, as an architect says: Build me a house, windows and doors should be present! – But how much the whole story may cost, you did not tell the reform commission or the architect. Of course, you have to tell the Reform Commission what capital is available. In fact, we do not want to talk about a tax reform that is neutral in revenue, but rather about a tax reform that leads to a real discharge of Austrian taxpayers. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Auer: What would the Princehorn say?]] The liberals are very much committed to this tax reform. Mr Finanzminister! What has happened in the last three years? – They have reduced the Austrian population by 147 billion schilling more tax revenues. Due to the tax packages of the Austrian population, they have collected 147 billion schilling more taxes. But if a proposal from the opposition parties comes – whether this is the liberals, the Greens or, in the first place, the liberals, because they are the only ones with a concept with a system – say It's always like: I can't! What's going on with you? – Obviously, nothing goes at all with you. Many of the statements made by important economic fidelityists in Austria, with whom we discussed the tax reform concept of the Freedom Party, can be found: That's a good concept! However, there is a problem: It comes from the wrong corner. – That means: If a good proposal, which has a real discharge from the Austrian population, brings relief from the liberals, then it is bad. But if he comes from you, there is great joy. Yes, please, what state do we live in? It will always take you one and a half to two years for you to take ideas from the liberals; then they will be implemented, and it is said at once that the SPÖ has brought it in. We should be right about that. If it benefits the Austrian population and comes with a delay of time, it should also be right for us. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But you didn't look at our tax concept at all. Inside Your civil servants are swirling around different numbers: Once the model costs 140 billion schilling, then it costs 120 billion, then it costs only 90 billion. You don't know what the whole thing costs, you didn't figure it out. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: What does the Princehorn say about this?]] The only thing you have to say to the population is: A hundred per month will probably be less, but on the other hand one will recover this by a tax increase. – So you just want to make a non-profit tax reform. On the other hand, we want to make a tax reform with content, a tax reform with content that leads to a genuine discharge of Austrian taxpayers. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is a question of having a uniform tax rate of 23 per cent, with which everyone is to be taxed: a linear tax rate of 23 per cent. It virtually replaces the previous income tax, wage tax, corporate tax and capital income tax. [[Abg. Marizzi: Then the shark pays for the Bear Valley instead...!]] And so that with the social argument – because you say again and again that this is the so-called rich tax – you can't even "slip in" at all, our concept also provides for the corresponding amount of allowances, free amounts of 150 000 S per adult and 75 000 S per child. That is to say, a family with two children in Austria would have a tax relief of 450 000 S per year, which would mean that someone with an income of up to 450 000 S with two children would pay zero tax. - Shouldn't that be social? Mr Finanzminister, look at the comparison! For a family with an income of 350 000 S, the exemption amount is 450 000 S, the basis of assessment is zero, the tax burden is zero, the effective tax rate is null. Now, as an example, I take your so-called Director-General: It earns 1 050 000 S and can still benefit from the 75 000 S allowance for its two children, but its basis of assessment is 900 000 S, with a tax burden of 207,000 S and an effective tax rate of 19.71 percent. Should that be unfair? The average family in Austria with an income of between 350 000 and 450 000 S will pay 0 percent taxes in the future, and the Director-General with an income of one million Schilling will pay 20 percent taxes. Is that supposed to be socially unfair? – You must first explain to your so-called voters whether a zero percentage tax rate is socially fair or socially unfair compared to a 20 percent tax rate. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] 13th and 14ths. Monthly content remains intact according to our concept. However, in order for the whole to be financeable and to take place in a single cycle, it is also a question of burdening businesses accordingly, in the form of an incentive for investments to be tax deductible at 100 percent in the first year. What does that do? – This, of course, causes an investment boom! According to the opinion commissioned by the Upper Austrian Economic Council, Leitl, in which only once was calculated, which investment shift or what effects on the labour market would have on the labour market if the unabsorbed profits were tax-free, this would result in an investment increase of 25 percent. What does that mean? – In 1998, according to the last national economic account, there was a gross investment of around 648 billion schilling. A 25 percent investment boost only due to the unabsorbed profits would make 150 billion schilling more investment. Have you considered what the tax revenue for you would mean, how many jobs could be created more by how many beneficiaries would be relieved by the fact that this would also create impulses? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You always hear of you: I can't. I'm not in the bag anymore! What is the effect? – This can also be seen from the opinion of Professor Schneider of the University of Linz, which is not a libertiest. He says: 40,000 jobs can be kept by them – held! – and 50,000 jobs can be created in addition. – You, Mr Minister, know exactly what a job costs. It costs unemployment insurance for about 250 000 p. Take it up with a number of 50 000 unemployed, which comes out of it for an amount! 13 billion schilling! On the one hand, they save something, but on the other, they can be driven by a tax reform that creates jobs that will lead to a reduction in the income of the self-employed and self-employed. There is a growth shift, there is a positive mood in this country! If you are always talking about and saying that you have no money if you have a tax reform commission working for a year and a half and nothing comes out, then you will not have any positive impulses in Austria. Your tax system, which you now operate – always according to the motto: Get out of here, hole up! – just one way, Minister of Finance: that more and more jobs are lost in Austria, economic sites are being distributed and we are faced with a new wave of unemployment. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] Take to heart the tax reform concept of the liberals! Look You're finally looking at this! These figures are calculated, they have exact foundations. Above all things: The tax reform of the liberals is socially fair, it is socially fair because it relieves the persons involved in small and medium-sized incomes accordingly, while those with higher incomes fall out of the allowances and therefore also have to pay more income tax or the new uniform tax rate. In order to express our serious concern at the argument that this reform is socially fair, we have said that the maximum basis for social security for workers falls. That is to say, the maximum basis of assessment is currently around 42 000 s. If someone deserves more, then the basis for calculating social security is the corresponding higher amount. Because the system that currently prevails favours the rich and falls on the heads of the poor. We want to prevent that from happening at all times. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] So that the whole thing can be financed, we ask you to finally make the state slimmer. We call on you not only to think about what expenditure you can finance with any tax increases, but also to make the state narrow in this way – you have already allocated a lot – so that appropriate resources are available to set up a tax reform that will lead to a real discharge of the Austrian population and not to a redistribution of how you plan it: Everything up-to-date! There's a hundred people down there and up here by two hundred! This is not a good tax policy! Look at our concept! We will in all cases not be relaxed to spread this concept accordingly throughout Austria, so that you too are put under pressure to deal with this system.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e6000	Mr Edlinger, Federal Minister, spoke on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Federal Minister! Your speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes if possible. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e6024	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, a statement that is intended to define the task of the Tax Reform Commission, although you, honourable Members, have repeatedly taken my position on this issue. I kept saying the same thing: The Federal Government, represented by my person, set up a tax reform commission in April 1997. The timing of yours, that is two years, is about as precise as your calculation of the "flat tax" – but only by the way. It's been a year and a half. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] At the time when I was using the Tax Reform Commission, I said: The task of the Tax Reform Commission is to draft a tax reform to meet five essential criteria: First: It has to relieve labour, i.e. to put in place structural measures which are suitable to improve the economic location of Austria in the competitive situation. Secondly, It has to review the issue of capital taxation, of course in a certain connex with those transactions that are taking place in Europe. That's not a question at all. But it is quite simple in the long term and also in the medium term – on which all the finance ministers in Europe agree – a rather counterproductive development if we note without criticism and without reaction that the tax burden on labour has increased by 7 percentage points over the last 15 years and the tax burden on the much more mobile production factor capital has decreased by 10 percentage points over the same period. If one also sees the question of employment policy here, then we need action – not only as an Austrian, but also throughout the European Union. The third task to the Tax Reform Commission was to check to what extent a first step towards ecologizing the tax system can be taken. There is no doubt that this is also a question of political feasibility and of political courage, but it is a step in a direction to be taken in the light of developments that are necessary in Europe as a whole. Fourthly, a tariff reduction should be considered to the extent that the fifth point, which is also crucial, namely convergence compatibility, is not called into question. These were the requirements for the Tax Reform Commission, and I have from the outset said that I do not expect the Tax Reform Commission to have a tax concept. For God's sake, you will not believe that experts can expect a tax concept, but what we want from the Tax Reform Commission are options of feasibility, i.e. to determine along these lines: What can be done? What happens when you turn at one or another tax room, at the other end of the tax structure and finally in the area of convergence compatibility? My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! For tax policy – and I am not going to dispute this as a politician and finance minister – is a political matter, as a tax reform looks to be decided by this House in the end. I do not think it should make policy so easy and move it on to the professionals. What we want in this government is the basics that are technically correct, which are feasible in the way that one knows what it means to make decisions in this or that way. But the decision on the structure of the tax reform lies with us in deciding what we can actually afford after the bid for very concrete calculability. I add: I would like to have a tax reform in the year 2000 and give the answers to the questions I have referred to, but at the same time achieve something: that the Minister of Finance of the Republic is open to the public and can say that this tax reform contributes to structural improvement, but that at least one does not happen, and that one or two years later the Austrian population is confronted with a savings package number three. This is not the policy, ladies and gentlemen, which I would like to have as a result of the tax reform. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] There may already be proposals that are very interesting. I have read with great interest the tax reform programmes such as the Liberal Forum, but also the Greens, and I found them to be highly debateable and very interesting. The question, however, is how we can integrate such approaches into the overall convoluted. I therefore – and I say that clearly –, as long as the Tax Reform Commission has not reported, I have actually held back in positions for good reasons. I am aware that not Mr Edlinger, but the Minister for Finance of the Republic of Austria, when he clearly positions himself on this question, is simply seen as a fact and is also perceived as such. And that's right. Because I have the main responsibility for a tax reform just as I have the main responsibility for a budget that can be implemented – and I take it over. That is why I have made a public statement on those points which I do not question for reasons of political feasibility. Therefore, even if such proposals come from the Tax Reform Commission, I will certainly not negotiate with my coalition partner when it comes to 13 and 14. (b) to challenge monthly salary. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Although this is an exception to Austrian tax law, it is a fact that Austrian workers identify themselves to a very positive extent. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Where is your will to design, Mr. Minister?]] – I say to you: I don't think it's politically feasible. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: This is remarkable!]] - Oh, my God. - Oh, my God. Take note of my point of view. I know your argument and I am also very grateful for the fact that the Liberal Forum explains to the public that the 13th and 14ths of the forum are in the public interest. A monthly salary is to be taxed. The Austrians are supposed to decide what they want. I tell them: 13. and 14. Monthly content is not affected. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] My second position, which I have also clearly explained, is as follows: I'm... [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: You're a populist, nothing else! It's pure populism!]] I am not a populist, but a realist, Dr Schmidt, and I would like to make a tax reform that pleases people and improves our structures. This is my job as a politician, who bears responsibility! Mrs. Dr. Schmidt! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: The task of a Social Democratic is to provide social justice!]] I have decided on a second question, although I am aware that the content is also disputable. There is no question that we have the cheapest basic taxes in Europe – no question at all! . and one can now take the view that there is a need for action in this regard. However, I am not going to address the basic tax because it is a municipal tax and we cannot question all the areas that have FAG relevance in the context of the implementation of the tax reform 2000 for good reasons. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Then we will wait until after 2000!]] This will be discussed within the framework of the FAG. I was in my former position in Vienna's financial reference, and I say quite honestly to you: If at the time the Minister of Finance had come to me and told me: Dear friend, together we announce the FAG, which, admittedly, is extremely favourable for countries and communities, we are negotiating again!, then, of course, for reasons of courtesy, I would have followed the invitation of Mr Finanzminister, but certainly not shown any mobility as usual, as long as there is a favourable financial compensation for the countries and communities. In reality – and I am a realistic politician – I must say that FAG-related things cannot be attacked, and it is also quite clear and clear to me – and I have already explained this to the public: [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: You are not realistic, you throw the towel! That's a difference!]] In the context of the tax reform 2000, the Minister of Finance of the Republic will not make a proposal which will bring about a change in the current basic tax. I am actually very grateful that today I have the opportunity to say this clearly. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Dear Mr Mag. Trattner! Now to the "flat tax": We have already discussed this question in the Financial Committee. You accuse me of changing the assessment of the costs of your "flat tax" from 140 to 120 and 90 billion schilling. . I would just like to point out to you that the proposals of the Freedom Party also change greatly: They went from 15 to 20 percent in September. After I have said – or perhaps you yourself – that this is a little low, you have improved it to 23 percent. The difference between 15 to 23 percent unit tax is almost 50 percent! May I say that in all clarity! It doesn't matter if I require 15 percent unit tax or 23 percent. There's 50 percent tax revenue in between! [[Abg. May. Peter: This is mathematically correct!]] That's a little more than banality! Dear Mr Mag. Trattner! I would like to say the following: Of course, as far as we were able to extract documents from the media, we have always recalculated your "flat tax". And I'm still summing up: The "flat tax" favours the minister, that's no question at all! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Right!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's not true!]] They then improved: From 600,000 s in annual incomes there are no more deposits. Did you figure out what it means to bring in between 450 000 and 600 000 s of annual income? – This means, for example, that a four-member family with 450 000 S annual income does not pay a tax! But if it earns only 75 000 S more, that is, half within the grinding system, it pays for these 75 000 S according to your model between, depending on the model, 80 and 90 percent tax! This creates a progression that is quite enormous! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Who did you figure that out?]] The question of family allowances was long virulent until you said: She's coming too! The 13th and 14th respectively. Reference! – I cannot imagine, ladies and gentlemen, that the American professors told you that the flat tax works if there are such exceptions. In the end, a huge part of the financial needs are missing, which is also necessary for the presentation of a budget. I have already told you this in the Financial Committee, and I will repeat it today. The "flat tax" is quite discusable! [[Abg. May. Stadler: In the "press hour" you said that was a jux!]] [[Abg. May. Trattner: Now you're a little further!]] Everything can be debated, but I am absolutely against this system, because it does not take account of social components because of the uniformity of the tax rate. Secondly – and I say that to you in all clarity –: They always say that's a modern tax system. That's not at all... [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Even no concepts, but criticize the others!]] You'll get my concept early enough. They were not in the hall; I have just explained to Mr Trattner when we will present this. If you had been here, you wouldn't have had to make a call now. But that doesn't bother me! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Let me finish the thought! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Always just stand up and hack onto the others! That's not a policy! As Minister of Finance, one must have a concept!]] I have not planned Parliament, but I am standing up and you are sitting below, perhaps there is another reason. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I don't intend to go down your concept at all, but I'm going to establish facts. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You have no idea yourself!]] I said that when you weren't in the hall. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Oh yes! I've been listening to you from behind!]] No, no, no, I said: The "flat tax" is a concept whose result and structural content I do not seek due to my political position. [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] Let me give you one last thought, since you always say that is a modern tax concept: It's an Ural tax concept! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: I don't know! You're a tax inventor, we're the tax sinks!]] It is a tax concept that the consultants themselves did not enforce at Mr Reagan – and that means something! I would also like to tell Parliament that there is the flat tax in extremely modern countries, namely Hong Kong, Estonia and the British Channel Islands. – Whether these are those countries that have modern tax systems, which we should take as a model, I dare to doubt. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I repeat: I'll be late November... [[Abg. Böhacker: No polemics from the government bank!]] It is, however, very unpleasant if you think it is polemic if I represent my opinion. If you have felt that way, I expressly apologise for it. But I only represent my opinion here. And this can also be expressed as a minister in this House: his opinion. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] At the end of November, I will present the results of the Tax Reform Commission and also my personal assessment. Then, within the coalition, we will try to develop a relevant tax reform that I mentioned at the beginning of my discussion. [[Abg. May. Stadler: (in the direction of ÖVP) The election topic he gives you! You just don't get it yet!]] You will have sufficient opportunity to give my honourable ladies and gentlemen, from the free point of view of this tax reform, your consent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e6372	The next speaker is Mr Böhacker. I would draw attention to the fact that he and all the following speakers have a speaking time limit of 5 minutes provided for in the Rules of Procedure. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e6397	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! You spoke a lot again and didn't say anything. [[Abg. Marizzi: Maybe the flat tax is coming in Brazil! The Rosestingl could introduce them to Brazil and rehabilitate themselves!]] Mr Finanzminister! They have accused us of several times adjusting the tax rate in our flat tax model. But we have always said that it depends on how much we make social allowances, whether 13 or 14 Reference shall be taken accordingly. That's nothing new! It is all in the river, and we liberals have here very, very responsible and socially directed our system of "flat tax". [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Secondly, Mr. Finance Minister, you're talking about flat tax like a blind man of colors. They meant that it was planned for a grinding arrangement between 450 000 and 600 000 S – that is absolutely incorrect! [[Interference of Federal Minister Edlinger.]] You are not up-to-date, Minister of Finance, because you argue with figures that do not vote in the back and in the front. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] Take note at last: If you want to discuss a particular model, first ask yourself about the current state of this model, only then can you argue accordingly! [[Abg. Marizzi: The Princehorn is already gone!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Let me say the following: The Austrian taxpayers need a sustainable and comprehensive tax reduction such as a bite of bread, like a drowner the saving straw. [[Abg. Leikam: The Princehorn would have done this better!]] Austria – even if you do not like to hear this, Minister of Finance – thanks to socialist finance ministers, has the highest tax and tax rate of the Second Republic. Every Austrian and every Austrian has to work almost half a year to meet the ever-increasing desire of the state – for the Minister of Finance and for the Minister of Social Affairs. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: That's absurd!]] The facts are on the table. Mr Finanzminister! From 1988 to 1998, wage tax alone increased by 110 billion schilling. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Where is the union?]] That is 125 percent, although mass income has increased by only 60 percent. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Edler, what do you say? Nothing more!]] – This major coalition tax policy is simply unfair, indeed inhuman and beyond a national economic nonsensus. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Then the great lamentation arises that more and more Austrians are drifting into the tax-political grey zone in a kind of emergency action. I am the last to speak of tax evasion or the reduction of taxes. On the contrary! I support the equality of taxation. But those who have to make this out of emergency defense today do not drift into the grey zone to enrich themselves, but in many cases it is simply and grippingly about survival. If this is your social component in tax policy, you should rather remove the word "social" from your party name. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Finanzminister! Listen Finally, it calls on the Austrian citizens to threaten that a sustainable and comprehensive tax reduction, as we liberals demand, must necessarily lead to a new tax package. This is a veritable nonsense. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: (Ironically laughing) Only the numbers speak against it!]] You, Minister of Finance, and your predecessors have proved this: They have permanently increased the tax and tax burden over the last ten years – with few exceptions – and have become increasingly deep in the taxpayers' pockets. However, the result is not that you will be able to reduce the tax to a large extent. On the contrary! Despite permanent tax increases, they have imposed on Austrians two load packages that are unfair and inhuman! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Stop calling the liberal tax reduction model unsocial and favouring the rich! It has already been mentioned as an example. I could give you many examples, Mr Finanzminister, of the fact that our tax reduction model really favours the little ones, the single parents and the families. In view of what the Social Democratic Party has to do with the tax reform, I would like to quote Hans Rauscher of the "standard" – truly no friend of the liberals – as follows: "What the SPÖ wants is a pseudo-reform that can cost only ten billion and compensates for the cold progression of recent years. Perhaps energy is a little expensive, that is, ecological reform. In order to satisfy the anti-capitalist reflexes, the capital profit tax from shares is then added as a fixed show element. It does not do anything in the Ministry of Finance to the highest level of jovial, but it rents at least private pension provision by investment funds or similar. This mixture will sell Viktor Klima as a ‘great tax reform’." [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] Mr Finanzminister! That's pathetic!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e6568	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Novotny. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e6589	Mr President. Federal Minister! The tax reform is certainly an important issue. It is, above all, far too important to be abused for political change. That is exactly what is happening on the part of the FPÖ! [[Lively calls to the liberals.]] [[Abg. Aumayr: Always the old Leier!]] They pick up this ancient concept of flat tax, an old project of conservative American groups, and hold a special party meeting on it. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: That's not even what your Minister of Finance says!]] Mr Haider! The problem – this has just been shown again in connection with the speeches by Trattner and Böhacker – is that it is not even clear what is actually the last state of your concept. Clearly, Mr Böhacker had in mind a different concept than Mr Trattner before him. [[Abg. Böhacker: Either want it or you can't understand it! Very worrying!]] I wrote a letter to Mr. Partyobmann Haider some time ago and politely asked him to send me the authentic final version. [[Abg. May. Stadler: War!]] Unfortunately, I haven't gotten anything so far. [[Abg. May. Stadler: But you still get it!]] Obviously, the whole thing is still unclear. [[Abg. Dr. Haider presented the speaker with a manuscript.]] That can't be the whole concept you're talking about here. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Unbureaucratic and simple!]] I recommend you, Mr Haider, first of all to distribute it in your own club so that people know what they are talking about. This uniosity obviously goes to many, even in your own ranks, to the nerves, and those who can also draw the consequences. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: But they decided!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Minister of Finance has already pointed out that your concept – even in the last version we could at least know – is extremely unsocial. In addition, from the financial side, it is – this is a second point – associated with a massive tax downturn. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Read it first!]] I can only refer to what has so far been known to the public. You just have to say that. This is ultimately also the true objective. I am not sure, or I am afraid, Mr Haider, that you do not know exactly what sections you have taken up on this question of flat tax. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Gary S. Becker is a sectarian! Go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go! A Nobel Prizewinner!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: A Nobel Prizewinner is a sectarian!]] Mr Prinzhorn, who knows himself a little better in America than Mr Haider, probably thinks for this very reason that this is not the people you should be doing with tax policy. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Mr. Becker belongs to the sect of the Nobel Laureates!]] For example, Mr Rabushka, a very strange expert who has brought you here, does not mean to want to make the state slim, but he says – that is a literal quote – that is: I want to starve the state! – The idea behind this is to create a strong pressure through a massive tax downturn in order to force a reduction in the social state. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is a concept of American rights. There are also large groups that represent such social Darvinist positions. – But I would like to say very clearly: The Social Democratic Party – and I believe I can speak for our coalition partners – will do everything to prevent such socio-darvinist attempts to re-roll the Austrian social and economic system from being successful. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Without Paierl! Without Leitel!]] We stand for a powerful Austrian social state. That's exactly the opposite of what you're trying to do with the flat tax. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Plus Paierl! Plus, Leitel!]] Ladies and gentlemen! To say quite clearly what position SPÖ takes on tax reform issues, I would like to begin by saying – and I repeat that, but it is important – that: It is important not to insulate tax reform issues, but to see them in the overall social environment. This results first of all: A tax reform must be designed in such a way that it is also permanent. In other words, there must be sizes that can be financed permanently and do not lead to a new package of savings after a short period of time. I would also like to make it clear that SPÖ and also Minister of Finance Edlinger are certainly not available for campaigning Gags. Second point: The tax reform must relieve small and medium-sized enterprises. It must also be clear that, especially for small and medium-sized incomes, for families, the real relief effect is from the transfer side via state services. That's what we're going to do from 1. In January 1999, family allowances will be increased by 12 billion schillings. This will benefit small and medium-sized incomes. [[Lively calls to the liberals.]] Third point: We will stand for the tax relief of the labour factor and for greater tax justice between labour and capital. This means, for example, that not only labour costs, but also realised increases in value, are taxable. [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] Fourth point: We follow the agreed procedure described here by the Minister of Finance. In this way, we will implement a solid, just and long-term tax reform. It is scheduled with 1. In January 2000 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative This is guaranteed by both this government and Edlinger, special finance minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e6832	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Stummful. Time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e6854	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! An upcoming tax reform – as well as a debate on such a tax reform – is of course an temptation all over the world to address a package of demands to the Minister of Finance and thus to pursue a kind of licensing policy. [[Abg. Böhacker: How the ÖVP!]] I don't think we should make this mistake. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Like the drink tax!]] I say it quite openly: We should not make it so easy for the Minister of Finance – I say in all friendship – that he can give the answer: I am not Santa Claus; what you are calling for here is not feasible, so let us stay the same! – I do not think it should be so easy to do it all over the world! Mr Finanzminister! We know you're not a Santa Claus. But of course we also know that we currently have the highest tax and tax rate in the history of the Second Republic. We also know that there must be a common tax reform for two government parties, which, of course, have very different regulatory, ideological and social positions. That's not a question at all; it's not a shame either. [[Abg. May. Stadler: New elections he announced!]] That is the difference between marriage of love and reason; no question at all. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, it is primarily social democratic ideas to distribute as much as possible, and to be able to distribute much, we must remove as much as possible. No question at all! We by the People's Party acknowledge that the principle applies: [[Abg. May. Stadler: New elections with a pimperl theme!]] More money in the hands of the citizen and less money in the hands of the state! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We from the People's Party understand saving not in the sense of saving at the expense of the citizen, therefore there is no ghost of a new savings package, but for us is saving: [[Abg. Dr Schmidt: And that's it!]] Save at the expense of bureaucracy and the burden of the citizen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Aumayr: But you do the opposite!]] I think it is important to note this too. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: Listen, then you can learn something!]] [[Abg. Haller: Just the opposite!]] We will not be tempted to conform to the "flat tax" model. My opinion is completely in line with that of the Minister for Finance. The "flat tax" has been a very successful concept in history for centuries. It was the tax concept of the Middle Ages: 10 percent toe is the same as the flat tax. It was a successful concept for the Middle Ages, ladies and gentlemen, but it neglects all the experiences of financial policy and financial science over the last 200 years! [[Abg. May. Stadler: such a murky!]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr Stadler! That hurts you when I say that! [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is a shame!]] I understand your excitement. Be satisfied that it was a successful concept for the Middle Ages. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Landesrat Leitl, oberösterreichische ÖVP! Landesrat Paierl, Styrian ÖVP!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The Kuenrings too!]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, as tax policy is social policy and economic policy, we are concerned with developing clearly the following : [[Abg. May. Stadler: Leitl, Paierl – both have also spoken out for it!]] What are the fiscal, regulatory, social and economic objectives of a tax reform? First goal: Strengthening the family. I am very glad that we can say today: This goal has already been achieved by massive entry of our People's Party, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Be honest: Who would have believed two years ago that before the major debate on tax reform, we could call the discharge of the family abated?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A success of our family minister, but also a success of the entire government and the majority here in the House! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner:... Redemption law!]] Second objective: discharge of the high-performance middle class. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a second important objective for this tax reform. Performance must be rewarded again! We need to reduce the tax burden for this. No question at all! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Haller: He can speak well, Mr. Colleague, but he is to be measured by the actions!]] Third priority – and I am surprised that there are so few proposals from our coalition partner on this issue: Strengthening Austria's economic location. This is employment security, which is employment policy, ladies and gentlemen: discharge of Austria's economic location! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is a pimperl theme!]] I do not go into detail now, but just mention two examples: the abolition of the inheritance tax in the event of the transfer of assets. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: But also the gift tax!]] I read in newspapers: New work by new entrepreneurs. – If we are serious about this, the inheritance tax on acquisition as a job killer must be abolished immediately, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I read: New work by new companies. That means, please: Abolition of today's discrimination against equity. Equity is discriminated against today, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Liberal Forum.]] I'm very hopeful. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: You're in government!]] [[Abg. Aumayr: You are in the government, Mr. Cot!]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] Mr Finanzminister! I'm very hopeful. The slogans I've heard from the last SPÖ party, and what I'm now in...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e7199	Deputies! Your speaking time is over!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e7214	I am very hopeful that we can make concrete policies out of these slogans, i.e. policies to safeguard jobs, policies to secure the economic location of Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: How long has ÖVP been in government?]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e7259	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to draw attention to the fact that the five-minute limit on speaking time in this debate is not my personal hobby, it is in the Rules of Procedure. I ask you to stick to it in the future! Mr Mag. Peter, you're the next speaker. You're not affected by this accusation yet. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e7286	Mr President. Federal Minister! It is a real pleasure... [[Calls and calls between the ÖVP and the liberals.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] It is a real pleasure to speak stupidly after the honourable Member. You just can't contradict him: More money in the hands of the citizen, less in the state, relief and strengthening of the economic location! Mr. Dr. stupid, you have my voice! [[Demonstrative applause with the ÖVP.]] New work by new entrepreneurs: the new path to economic and employment policy. Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats, you have my vote! [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Stop!]] That is great, at last something is going on in this republic! The only problem I have is this side, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties! [[The speaker holds an unwritten sheet of paper in height.]] There's nothing on it, so far it's just words. [[Abg. Edler: There you have to show the right side!]] But there's nothing behind that. Now I would suggest that you simply do what you say. I think it is great that you are in the government, that you have the majority and that you make good proposals. Now do it too, please. That seems to be the point. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: Only after the election!]] The Minister for Finance has explained to us that the possibility of feasibility in the Commission is being examined. I agree. They have said that the political capacity, implementation and strength to reform will decide on this tax reform. I agree with you, too. Please fill in. You have this paper, Minister of Finance! Look at the fact that something is going on in this country at last! What you have produced in the last three years is a stopover of reform. Nothing goes in this country: Black blocked red, red blocked black! Novotny talked about political small money. Mr Finanzminister! Don't change a little political change if you know exactly that the 13th and 14ths. Monthly is a privilege of the server servants sitting here? – A privilege of the delegates, the politicians, the journalists, the well-earned directors, the well-earned manager – it is their privilege! It is not the privilege of the little people, but it is they who pay this privilege through too high tax rates. That's the theme! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Mr Finanzminister! If you do not want to change political change, you have the courage to make a tax reform! Just like we Liberals did by saying: We want to reduce tax rates so far that we also add in parentheses to all exceptions and to simplify the tax system: Your predecessor, Mag. Climate, as Minister of Finance, has called for a lower tax rate for people. It is only through the simplification of the tax system and the low tax rates that people will understand that it is worth working more, using more and achieving more performance – then if the limit tax rate is not 50, but 40, not 42, but 30, not 32, but 20 and not 22, but 10 percent. You know all of this, Mr. Finanzminister. Why Change You, then, political change, as Novotny called it? – I don’t think it’s fair – or do you already open the election campaign? – that we are already in the phase in which we no longer work, but only talk out of the window. Mr Finanzminister! They were in Bonn yesterday and shared a press conference with Lafontaine. They were at the time when the issue of the Stability Pact was discussed. I'm concerned about it... [[Federal Minister Edlinger: That I was in Bonn?]] No, but what was said there – not by you, but by Lafontaine – about the question of the Stability Pact. We are now in the phase of the euro on 1 January. Introduced in January 1999 and put into cash three years later. That's it. You ask the European Central Bank to reduce interest rates, I think I am legitimate. On the other hand, I think it is a very dangerous game to ask whether the State's investment should be calculated from the deficit ratio. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Federal Minister Edlinger: This is not mine!]] It was discussed at European level. They were there and in the subsequent interview... [[Federal Minister Edlinger: Commissioner Monti made this proposal!]] So you are not in favour of this proposal? [[Federal Minister Edlinger: I said that we need to discuss this!]] All right, then we'll discuss it. I am trying to do so precisely because I think it is a very dangerous way to calculate the State's investment from the deficit ratio and thus implicitly say that the government's deficit ratio is only used to finance the increase in public consumption that we cannot cover through taxes. In other words, we are getting into a situation where we are very much questioning the value of our currency. I would point out that despite a declining trend, the interest rate rate rate rate is still net of more than 20 per cent and that we have lived in advance of the future over the last 30 years. You, Mr Finanzminister – as you also have grandchildren – should be concerned with this as well as with me. I therefore think that monetary policy should be left to the European Central Bank and that it should not be used by the Ministers for Finance' election.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e7447	The next speaker is Mr Van der Bellen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e7468	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Edlinger! The debates are very similar: We hear from you regularly what's not going on. For example, a change will take place on 13th and 14th. A month in favour of a change in the tax structure in the wage and income tax, you seem to consider it politically not feasible. As far as financial compensation is concerned, it is also taboo and not feasible. Very much is then not left, but it is some big chunks, and I would like to remind you of that. If you really focus exclusively on federal taxes, I urge you to do so. They have found some kind words on the Greens' tax reform programme, namely to ecologize the tax structure and to reduce labour on the one hand and to increase energy taxes on the other. This can be done without having to remove the financial compensation from the fishing effort, even if we think it is going to happen without even touching it on the verge. If, at the same time, you take seriously the other point, which you have also referred to as the central pillar of the tax reform, namely the reduction of labour costs, I wonder how you can achieve a sustainable reduction in labour costs without ecologizing the tax system in the context of a sustainable tax concept – let me use the term "sustainability" – unless you want to increase the deficit – which I cannot believe – or take drastic measures in the field of property taxes, i.e. in an area that you have implicitly tabulated without expressing it here. From the procedure of the Tax Reform Commission – from what has happened especially in recent months – I cannot fully share your optimism, Minister of Finance. In my view, you are not entirely innocent of this, that is to say, as far as timing is concerned. I wish you all the luck of having something reasonable and reasonable come about, but I do not believe that. The large tax reform of 1988 – the Lacina-Dez-Reform – did not happen by chance in the middle of a legislative period. At the end of a legislative period, as your coalition partner, as well as you yourself, and of course we also, stands in the opening holes for the elections, to expect that, apart from individual calls, the options of the possible tax reform will be presented in peace and then, together with the ÖVP, you will be peacefully debating what you can do and what I do not think is absolutely unlikely, Minister! We only need to listen to today's speech by Mr Stumpfully. Mr. Col. Stumblingly... [[Abg. Kiss: Excellent remarks!]] Yes, excellent execution, may be already, but essentially he said: [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You have little to do with this, Mr. Cot!]] We demand tax relief here, we demand tax relief there, we demand an abolition of the inheritance tax, we demand a benefit from the medium-sized state and, and - without saying at any point about how it is supposed to finance. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: You demand that too!]] [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: Oh, yes, that's what he said at the beginning!]] I didn't hear that. - So that's gonna come? Yeah, now in the election campaign. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: We will negotiate this with the Minister of Finance!]] You'll never do that! They will do exactly the same as the FPÖ, namely to raise tax proposals, and whether that costs 10, 20, 40 or 50 billion schilling is Wursch. The qualitative – or, if you want to, quantitative – difference is that the "flat tax" of the liberals, according to me – admittedly superficial – will cost at least 100 billion schilling tax losses. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I agree!]] It simply cannot afford to do so, except to want what Mr Rabushka really wants: to ruin the state. What did you call it? [[in the direction of the Abg. Dr. Novotny]] [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Hunger!]] Do not ruin, but starve; but that goes on to the same. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Social reconstruction at the expense of the people!]] Mr Trattner! I would be very grateful – where is he; he's not here right now – if I could get the final version of your tax model. I can only say: If you seriously expect this tax loss of 100 billion schillings to come in over growth effects – please, you need the corresponding... [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: How do you get 100 billion?]] With a flat tax of 23 percent, with which you de facto – I cannot calculate it precisely because you have not yet given me the documents, but have been raised above the thumb – take two thirds of all wage and income taxpayers out of the wage and income tax, I seriously wonder why you do not even want to abolish the wage and income tax. That would be much easier! Then we would finally have a regressive tax system. But that doesn't seem to bother you. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: It's also about jobs! More income, more jobs, more investment! Is that so hard to understand?]] Go, please! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Is it so hard to understand that more investment creates more jobs?]] [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Pseudo economist Haider!]] A little arithmetic... – a final sentence – a little arithmetic, Mr. Haider: [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign]] To bring in 100 billion schilling, you need an additional growth in the social product in the order of 10 to 15 percent! Please!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e7693	Mr Gaugg has now come to speak. The speaking time is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e7715	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Minister Edlinger, you have made a clear admission to debt in your statements in the current hour by saying that in recent years the burden on workers has increased by 7 percent and capital taxation has fallen by 10 percent. These are your words and your statements. That is to say, a clear failure of the Social Democratic Party in this country! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They grew up in a party that once had something left for the worker. I wonder today: What do you do for the worker? What to do She is the Minister of Finance for the little man in our Republic, so that he can return to a worthy man. It's got it? They complain, on the one hand, of the loss of billions of schilling, because there was too much undeclared work in Austria, on the other hand, you drive people into black work because they would no longer survive because of your tax policy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This missing financial policy must be questioned. Where is the balance? Where is a compensation for the loss of income that workers have suffered? There will be speeches from your budget and financial speaker, Novotny, in which there is talk of sectionaries. After all, they are also Nobel prize winners, and you are miles away from those – from Becker and others. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Mr. Rabushka is not a Nobel Laureate!]] Then comes the next one who speaks to us from a protected workshop. From a protected workshop, Mr. Stummvoll of the Chamber of Commerce says: All that has been done so far is rosy; what is now coming is even better. I say one thing to you, as you too, Mr Klubobmann Khol, speak of the Middle Ages. Here I have a letter from 30. October 1998 – if that is medieval for you, then it may be – a Vorarlberger writes to the ÖVP Federal Party [[Abg. Edler: The Gorbach?]] Your comments about the flat tax model of FP are another negative signal from the ÖVP for us. We are a Vorarlberger family with two children and a family income. For us, the current tax burden is unbearable. – This will then be further explained. It also says: We've chosen your party so far. Now it's obviously time for a change. – That should encourage reflection! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: Very good! Did one of the "F" write?]] I would also like to ask you if we are already talking about the middle age, whether Mr Paierl and Mr Leitel, both Councils of the State of your party, have also ruled during the Middle Ages or whether they are currently in office, as is Mr Neisser, who is currently chairing the Parliament and who is quite open to the idea of flat tax. Only you mean to be able to master the future by means of the past! Where is the use of the government parties for the simple workers and employees in this Republic? – In Austria, you are proving that nothing more than work! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They support the lack of time and burden the work! A few examples. A worker, a child, 25,000 s of income, is currently paying about 36,000 s of wage tax, which is a burden of 10.4 percent. According to the "flat-tax" model, there would be a reduction to 19 700 S of wage tax – i.e. by 17 000 S – to 5.6% of wage tax. You can calculate that. Or: A worker, a single earner, two children, with a reference of 21,000 s, currently has a 5.8 percent wage tax. He would pay only 0.7 percent of wage tax according to the flat-tax model. Or: According to the "flat-tax" model, a worker with an income of 42 000 S would reduce his tax performance from currently 105 700 S to 63 700 S – from 17.6 percent to 10.6 percent. And now I'm asking you: What's so bad about that? What should not be social in this model, not fair if you... [[Interference of Federal Minister Edlinger.]] Well, then you'll count on it, and then we'll talk about it, then we'll discuss it! But if you say no from home, it only shows that you are one of those who suffer from a government syndrome and according to the motto: "I sank, and on everything that comes from the opposition, we say no!" It's going to do it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That's your system. They say: We're the gentlemen in there! It's so annoying to listen to a member of the opposition. We don't expect to, because we're the stars. In fact, this is a fossil, non-combating past occurrence of some social democrats, although there are many others who are very likely to give their main focus to the Austrian workers with a tax reform that actually broke something. But you're supporting the grand mogule today. They support foundations, and you support Bank Austria with tax relief. For example, if you buy credit card organizations, you are the world champion! There you are in your element! But for the simple worker, who should once benefit from a tax reform – that would really mean the fight for black work, and one would finally have a clearer view in the tax jungle – you have nothing left. One more point, Minister of Finance. They would have to be ashamed every day of the fact that many employees in Austria are unable to claim the refund due to the fact that they are unable to make the appropriate request without professional assistance. They would have to order a tax advisor to perhaps pay back a few shilling taxes with their net income of 12 000 s, for example, because they have completed a life insurance scheme or have made payments for a housing project. You should be ashamed of that! If all those concerned were to make such requests, you could no longer finance them at the moment!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e7820	Mr Ing. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party to the European Time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e7841	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Gaugg is actually a good example to show that the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in the field of tax policy has some kind of refusal of reality. He turns out here and laments the dramatic situation for Austrian workers – he, the savior and fighter for the right-wings in this country, just as he was here about two years ago and did the same for the Riegerbank. Not only did he do that, but also his colleagues Trattner and Schreiner – who is now no longer here, because he left the Rosenstingl affair – spoke like that at the time. All these "poor" Austrians represent the Freedom Party. And especially suitable to defend the interests of these "poor" Austrians, of course, is the tax model of the Freedom Party, which would, among other things, lead to the fact that 50 percent of top-rankers would have to pay lower taxes in the future. Ladies and gentlemen! I mean, that simple and so simple politics is just not. The real reason for this behaviour is simply that the Freedom Party does not want to accept reasonable proposals for a tax reform. However, government policy is different. It has to be based on realities, and for this reason we are also very serious in this area. The Tax Reform Commission – the Federal Minister has already mentioned this – is very active and will present here in November the opportunities we need for the Austrian social system within the framework of a strong state. In early January, the first step will be taken to discharge Austrian families. With the family package it will become 1st. A strong relief for small income recipients, for whom children's-rich families take place, will be given by January. This is the first step in a major tax reform. The second step in a tax reform will be fixed in the coming spring, and I can guarantee that Austrian social democracy will be of great importance to you that this "tax reform 2000" is socially fair, that small and medium-sized incomes will be relieved, that the performance of the Austrian economy will continue to be sustainable – just as it proves this every day. I can also assure you that we will not be willing to give up the powerful Austrian social state for economic reasons. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In this sense, I conclude my contribution to this debate, which, by the way, has only a very populist character.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e7896	The next speaker is Mr Spindelegger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e7918	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to comment on three brief comments on the various tax concepts here today. Theme number one, our own tax concept. We from the ÖVP presented a tax reform concept in June of this year, which has a hand and foot. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: But no head!]] This concept is, above all, very clear in one direction: We want a tax reduction for the middle class, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The enormous current rise in wage tax and its strong increase in recent years have given rise to a 2% reduction in average rates. This means, according to our concept for the average earner, who currently earns about 300 000 S in the year, a reduction in its tax burden by 7 600 S or 11 percent per year. These are not peanuts, but that is a substantial tax relief for the average earner – I would like to expressly hold it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Peter: And otherwise everything remains the same?! That's a tax reform?- Oh, my God!]] Mr President, I should like to thank you very much for your support. Let me explain. We have not only identified this one point but many points in our tax reform concept. Note number two. The FPÖ proceeds according to the motto: "Who offers more?" – First we heard that the "flat tax" should be 17 percent. Now we hear, the flat tax is 23 percent. – First, it was said that there were no exceptions at all, but everyone had to pay 17 percent. Today, in turn, there is an exemption of 150 000 s for everyone. Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! It's really interesting how transformable you are. And I would like to hold on and give you an example of what your tax reform would mean today. If you refer in turn to the average earner of 300 000 S annual income, it is noted that according to your new tax reform concept, this would receive a wage tax relief of 2 900 s per month. On the other hand, if we look at a taxpayer who earns one million a year, we can see that according to your latest concept, he will receive a monthly discharge of 13 000 s. – And here you want to tell us today blue-eyeed, that the server servant will not be particularly preferred to you, but for you is still the little man decisive?- Oh, my God! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You have also exposed yourself today, as you have presented this concept. You have the millionaire in mind and not the little man, and this is an essential difference to our tax policy! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Incredible!]] I would like to say a third brief point to our dear colleagues from the Socialist Group. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer.]] We don't know about you anymore! You told us to wait first. You then told us about Mr Finanzminister that a tax reform in the current budget actually had too little pouvoir. However, Mr Bundeskanzler would like to make a tax reform quickly. And after the SPÖ party last weekend, we heard, without a share tax, no tax reform. I would be very interested to hear from you once or read what tax reform you really want to do. We still miss a concept from you! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Right!]] Either you have not yet drawn up your proposal, I ask you what you want to negotiate, or you do not agree within SPÖ, but then I ask you what you want to decide next year. Or do you really want to use the whole thing to break preferred new elections from the fence? Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! I ask you to: Put forward a concept that we can talk about! [[Abg. Edler: Did you listen to the Minister of Finance?- Oh, my God!]] Return from the party's day to the negotiating table and talk to us about how to help the average Austrian with tax relief back into the bag! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e8042	The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e8064	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr. Federal Minister Edlinger has shown us here in his own – anoquent – way that actually "nothing goes". This is a clear contradiction to the requirements of the Federal Chancellor, who has said that something has to be done quickly. It may have been a bit more honest from the point of view of the Minister of Finance, but the opposition is far from pleasing. For the fact that Mr Edlinger honestly admits that he does not see any chance in the financial compensation process, because the heads of state, including the head of state Klasnic, are intransigent – that is, sturgeon and inconsistency – is not a good prognosis for negotiations on an urgent reform of the financial balance. If Mr Edlinger on the reform of the tax system in the field of self-employed persons does not think anything other than that he says that at least the structure must remain the same – that is, a sixth of the annual income must remain tax-free or almost tax-free; for this the rest is taxed the higher to ensure that the unself-employed are favoured in the mixed relationship – then this is not at all understandable! Why must this be achieved in such a way that one sixth is kept virtually free of tax and five sixths is taxed? Why can't you fairly tax the entire year with lower taxes? [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] This is the core of the debate about the so-called 13th and 14th centuries. Monthly reference. It is not a question of changing the annual income, but of finally changing it, Minister of State, that the annual income is the basis for the calculation of taxes. In addition, taxes must be reduced for the hundredth time from this pult – a demand from the Liberal Forum. It is better to avoid people in those areas where there are tax obligations by taking them away less or by collecting only what they actually need instead of sending the money on the journey. First you take it away from them – and then you give it back to them in the form of a transfer. You'll need transfers where people don't have income at all or a low one, so they'd be happy if they had a higher tax and had to pay taxes. For these people you need means of transfer. You don't need to use means of transfer primarily for those people who pay without taxes! Take away less taxes from these people, you could save yourself some kind of aid. But this would require a profound structural reform. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Federal Minister! I therefore believe that we should bring together tax policy and social policy in this context. Mr Gartlehner has conspired this very well. But he does not need to conjure that, for we, at least we from the Liberal Forum, are of course of the same opinion on this point: A reasonable social system must be financed publicly. This cannot and cannot be left to the private patron of the caritas or the care, that is, the pure charity care. This is perfectly logical, but we should have an efficient, fair, fair tax system and, above all, a tax system with an eye to ensure that taxpayers are not stunned and not, among other things, also for these reasons, escape into black work. It must make a goal-oriented reform of social policy. It would have to put the objectives of social policy on the table openly. You have to say what you really want to achieve in this area. They should not maintain such a rupture, such a jungle, such an inconsistency of social benefits, and at the end of the day not even the appropriateness of the persons concerned, but a huge bureaucracy is engaged in disseminating something of which there is not enough left than that it could at all be in line with social purposes. There is a huge potential for efficiency improvement, but admittedly less located in your home than in the home of Mrs. Hostasch. In order to exploit this potential, however, you would have to work together within the government. The result must be out of a cast. A tax reform from a cast means, of course, taking into account the social flank and considering the question: How can I finance or want to finance what I want to do there so that those who pay it will not be stunned, but recognize that the money that is taken away from them in the form of taxes is really targeted, conscientious and careful? Federal Minister! This is also a matter of financial compensation. I am thinking, for example, of social assistance, a question that lies with the federal states and is there in an arrogance, because it is not even possible to develop federal uniform standards. I admit that all these are not your immediate topics, but your department is affected every time, through the back door of the financial compensation. That is why, Mr Federal Minister, you are making use of the strength you have as the Minister of Finance as the minister responsible for the budget implementation, and are driving your government colleagues here instead of saying: I can't, unfortunately, because he doesn't want, she doesn't want, and he doesn't let me. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e8131	The next speaker is Mr Oellinger, the last speaker at this current hour. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e8152	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Minister Edlinger, as simple as you did today, you should not actually do it. You can follow the result on the basis of the debate. You told us for the time being today: At the right time, I will come with my proposals! – In the meantime, however, a tax debate is taking place between the coalition parties in this House, which actually has incredible dimensions. For example, a representative of your coalition party comes out here – it was the Lord stupid, who today, I must admit to him, has shaped a very beautiful picture about the "flat tax"; he has said: the tax system of the Middle Ages – and in principle represents nothing but what the liberals want to achieve with a different tax system. He demands as she does: Get down with the taxes! We need a slim state! – Then, he says, everything would be fine, then jobs would be created. That is the concept of the future. Federal Minister! In principle, the liberals, the liberals and your coalition partners also represent this concept. They make themselves available here in this debate and say: I don't want to say anything about that now, I'm not telling you. I am referring only to the flat tax concept of the liberals and will explain myself in a month. That is not enough for me, Minister of Finance. If you take your role seriously, then your role as Minister of Finance is to explain to us and to hold the debate on which areas of this tax system is unfair, where it must be corrected, in which areas with which to control and in which direction. I would just like to give you a few points; they have been mentioned in part today. Of course, we should also be talking about the tax advantage on 13th and 14th. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. [[Abg. May. Peter: But why not?- Oh, my God!]] Of course there are also possibilities to differentiate, Mr Peter! There have already been proposals which have been made partly by the predecessors of the Minister for Finance. That is why Mr Edlinger, the Federal Minister, is so careful that these proposals should be put to the fore again. In principle, all the finance ministers have so far failed: a debate on the taboo of taxation of the 13th and 14ths. In my opinion, we should be looking at a fair form of taxation in the debate on one of them. He does not address this issue. – That seems wise, but it is not. In any case, it is socially unfair. Second point: the finals. As in the 13th and 14th years. There are exceptions and special benefits – even for the 15th and 16th, if one can only judge it – there are also benefits in the treatment system for voluntary processing, for additional handling, also with the preferential tax rate. – I would like you to explain to me, Minister of State. Especially in recent weeks, a number of examples of very high handling amounts – achieved in the form of voluntary settlements – have been brought into the debate. Or: the inheritance, the gift and the property tax. Federal Minister! I would expect a little more explanation from you about what to do in this area. I do not mean the abolition of what the Liberals call for or the way in which it demands the EIA, but a clear regulation that is transparent and socially fair. With regard to the taxation of assets, Mr Peter, there is also a lot to be gained. It cannot be said that the consequence of our tax policy or of what we have done in recent years in Austria is that the high incomes and assets are increasing and the low incomes without wealth are not benefiting much from development. The consequence of supply-oriented policies, which were also reflected in the tax system, was not, in all highly industrialized countries, that more jobs have been created – I would also like to address this issue, which is also the subject of this debate – but that unemployment has continued to rise. The consequence of this was, however, that the poor have become poorer and poorer – not much, but yet, recognizable, also in a country like Austria – and the rich are getting richer and richer. That is why we expect a tax reform to take effect in this sense. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to conclude by saying that, above all, to the address of the ÖVP and FPÖ, but unfortunately also to the Liberals in this case – we will be able to discuss it again in the afternoon –: Only the rich can afford a poor, slender state, but not those who really need it!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e8187	There is no more word message for this. The debate is closed. The current hour is over. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e8208	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e8410	It is proposed that the debate on points 2 to 5 and 6 to 8 of the agenda should be summarized. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. We are therefore going into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e8431	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the design and duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day-block speaking time of 8 "Vienna hours" has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ 120, ÖVP 112, Free 104, Liberal Forum and Greens each 72 minutes. We shall vote on this proposal immediately. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a corresponding sign. – So now we have come to a unanimous decision. Adopted unanimously. 1. Point Report of the Economic Committee on the report of the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs (III-140 of the Supplements) on the situation in the tourism and leisure sector in Austria 1997 (1453 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e8464	We're coming to the 1st. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are starting the debate with a speech by Mr Marolt. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e8492	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, the Minister for Economic Affairs is not present today... [[General cheerfulness, as Federal Minister Dr. Farnleitner sits on the government bank.]] [[The speaker turned around and noticed his error.]] He's there, which I'm very happy about. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: This is how the FPÖ deals with the truth!]] You can calm down again. The members of the FPÖ have no eyes on the back either. I am pleased that the Minister has arrived in the meantime. [[Abg. Auer: Do you need glasses?]] We'll see. Not yet! [[Abg. Auer: Not yet, but time is coming!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The Minister came through the back door on silent soles!]] I can now welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs and welcome him and address him directly in my speech. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that the 1997 Economic Report has not already been completed in the Committee points to the problem of the content of the report itself. I have already said in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs that, although this report is a plausible list of state-of-the-art statistics, it deals with the problems of the tourism sector and their importance, for which I would like to thank the officials of the Ministry as a touristist quite warmly, however, effective solutions cannot be identified in any way. I must also announce this here today in the direction of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. I miss political statements, for example in the direction of measures that effectively counteract the fears, needs and concerns of tourism companies. Minister for Economic Affairs! Take Please take the problematic situation in the tourism sector seriously! After all, this sector has statistical figures that have not even left old Chancellor Vranitzky cold. I'm just remembering that Vrannitzky was on the 21st. ==References====External links==* Official website He said, Tourism has a role to play in social policy, which we have not yet recognized as such. But Vranitzky had no more opportunity to implement that which he recognized and really make tourism a chance for chancellors. However, Vrannitzky has looked more closely at the statistical figures that have now been updated by your ministry, Mr Minister, than you are now doing this as a responsible minister, although he has ultimately done nothing but create additional burdens for the tourism sector. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] However, ex-Bundeschanzler Vrannitzky has at least recognized that in the tourism sector 42 000 accommodation and accommodation companies achieve at least 90.8 billion Schilling turnover and, in addition to 41 600 self-employed employees – provided that the statistics from the Ministry have genuinely correct content – 162,000 self-employed workers find employment. According to your study, in the tourism sector as a whole – and I do not doubt the accuracy of these figures – 300 000 people are employed and 150 billion schilling of foreign exchange revenue – this is also reflected in your study. However, you, Mr Minister, seem to have made no impression of these huge figures, for you tourism does not seem to be a major issue, because you were in the economic report on the economic situation in front of the National Council on 9 October. In July 1998, only two paragraphs were worth. Federal Minister! It is not enough to say, for your part, that it would have been a clear trend in the tourism and leisure industry, and the tourism industry would have experienced a continuous increase in sales. As a minister, you should know the old saying, which says: Turnover is not equal to profit! Federal Minister! What does the host have if they are only sales managers and after the delivery of payments and after the payment of costs other than negative capital only have the occupational disease and poor self-sufficiency? What do the 41,600 entrepreneurs and their families have of such reports and studies if there are no lessons or improvements in the framework conditions? You do not even need great ideas or ideas, Mr Federal Minister, the economy outside or the tourism industry itself is constantly presenting solutions and presenting demands! Even the chamberers of all couleurs, whether of red, black or blue, have for years called for the implementation of policies and the creation of reliefs. [[Abg. Eder: Blue too?]] Federal Minister! You do not even respond to your own chamber representatives in the Tourism section. They're just shaking their head. I would have to quote a few things, but because of the time available to me, I am saving you that. If you do not want to do anything or do nothing because of socialist hostages, discard these studies and situations! Cut off the umbilical cord to the SPÖ, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, at last, and consider your own election mandate, namely for the economy! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Please vote with us on these issues. The SPÖ won't run away from you. Where should she go? Get active at last, Minister! Not only since June has the situation in the tourism sector been known to you according to your own study. Even Your officials and experts have made you aware of shortcomings in the tourism industry. I just mention a few examples. For example, the fact that after six months of employment, employees have the full annual leave entitlement and a right to pay payments at the end of the employment relationship results in many farms taking advantage of the extension of the season in order to reduce wage costs. This goes on, up to the question of taxation, where a problem is identified in the case of operational tasks and where it is called for to eliminate the taxation of recovery profits. Minister! Where does the implementation of these measures remain? In this context, I would also like to remind you of applications which the FPÖ has already made and in which it has already referred to this problem. ==References====External links== In July 1996, a request was sent to the then Chancellor Vranitzky, who had 41 questions. However, these have experienced a pitiful response. ==References== In October 1997, Mr Haigermoser's request drew attention to this problem of the economy. – There was no response to that either! The subject-matter of this application was as follows: "Work needs the country!" It called for the following measures: Reduction of tax burden and tax relief, reduction of additional wage costs, elimination of cold progression, tax relief of unabsorbed profits, reduction of the shadow economy, increase in research and development rates and much more. – In the discussion, everything was smeared. When to Do You are finally something concrete in this direction, Mr. Minister? Faith Are you serious that this report is of interest to some of the 41 600 entrepreneurs in tourism? Have you read it yourself? I am going to quote from it something that calls into question the seriousness of this report. That's what it says, for example: "Urlaub 2020 – The journey into space." – Faith You really, Mr Minister, are you really interested in anyone outside? It's about a trip into space, among other things, in a study that you present to us. I am saving myself to inform you of the content of this text, especially as it is likely that it will have been dealt with by all the political groups in this House. Do you know, Mr. Minister, what people outside are really interested in? – I will tell you: It is the company's survival, the minus capital, the date at which interest and rates are due, the supplier's bills or the state of the companies that are concerned about how to renew the old showers, baths, pipelines, carpets – and that at more than 103 percent of additional wage costs, with no money available and beyond, the depreciation periods too long! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The farmers are not interested in travelling into space, but they are only interested in getting over the rounds to survive! At the last meeting of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, were only interested in one thing, why no credit cards were accepted in Carinthia at the EU Summit. This allegation is a joke! How should a company with, for example, 10 million Schilling turnover, minus capital, over-induced account balance, exhausted credit volume pre-finance its turnover, including sales tax, tourist tax, taxes, wage costs and so on, to two or three months, if it is additionally charged with three to five percent costs? Supplier invoices, wages and also prescriptions, taxes and taxes must be paid on time. Mr Federal Minister, at last you will ensure that unscathed profits become tax-free and the creation of equity will be possible! Then the introduction of the credit card will be honorary, Minister. In addition, I was surprised by your accusation, Minister, that Carinthia did not even have a suitable event hall. I do not want to turn to Carinthia now, and I also give you the right, but in this context, the following is to be noted: Where is the billions of tourism promised by Carinthia years ago to create such facilities? She hasn't gotten in until today. Where are the other measures for the tourism sector, such as the creation of the conditions for the extension of the season, for example by the aliquotation of the holiday allowance? No wonder that the gastronomy does not dare to keep the establishments open for more than six months, since in the case of employment of an employee over six months there is a holiday entitlement for the full year. Problems arise for farms also as a result of the provisions on the protection of young people. For example, an intern at the evening shop should not even cover the table again and not serve breakfast even before 10 a.m. the next morning, as he can only work until 10 p.m. and then have 12 rest hours. Next point: Abolition of the drinking tax. When will the drinking tax finally be abolished? I would now like to make a motion for a resolution on this – the light I will respect and come to the end – and to bring it to a conclusion. [[the lamp flashes at the speaker’s coil]] [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] This is an old proposal, which has already been scraped off. I hope that this time he will also find support from the EIA. [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Another resolution concerns global improvements in the framework for tourism and tourism. I would also like to read this immediately: [[Quoted print version removed]] As a reason for the last point, I should like to mention the following: Carinthia is a tourist country. If our farmers are given the opportunity to conduct creative events, to bring businesses up to date, to organise a high-life scene, the Carinthian tourism industry will go swimming, and then you can rightly say: Good night, Carinthia! – In this sense, I thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e8690	The two motions for resolutions, which the speaker has just read, are sufficiently supported and will be included in the negotiations. Mr Puttinger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. 12 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e8715	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I really didn't want to say anything about my previous speaker's remarks, but I think that at least one sentence should be said: I have already heard his speech in committee, their content has not improved, the only difference is that : [[Abg. Eder: Weaker!]] He's still recognized the Minister there! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! What tourism, the gastronomy and the hotel industry for communication, for socialism, for sport, namely the vehicle, to promote them, is for the tourism industry, for the suggestions from this industry, for the wishes, for the analysis essentially of the tourism report. In this context, I would like to thank you, Mr Federal Minister, for presenting this report to Parliament so quickly, but also for special topics on tourism, such as business succession, exit problems, trend research, seasonal extension, this "standard work" for Austrian tourism, I would like to say. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The debate on the situation of tourism, which is held every year on the occasion of the presentation of the tourism report to the National Council, always provides an excellent opportunity to present the importance of this important industry in the economy as a whole. Let me just mention a few details. Austria is the share of international travel revenues in gross domestic product, with 6.1 percent still undisputed in the first place worldwide, followed by Spain, Portugal with 4.8 and 4.6 percent. Austria is also at the top of travel revenues per capita, far from being undisputed. Say and write: 18 628 S of tourism revenue is provided statistically by each Austrian and every Austrian per year. Switzerland, with almost a third less – 13 339 S – behind it, the next countries in a global comparison, Ireland or New Zealand, are either 7 700 S or below, at 6 000 to 7 000 S. The value-added share of the whole sector is 13 percent. A slight plus is also recognizable for many other things. However, I believe that I must say that, in this area, it is not all the same. High house! The data mentioned above are a confirmation of our path in recent years. It is true that much has been invested in quality over the last ten to 20 years, even though the investment rate has now reached a very low point – at just over 50 percent of the highest level. This is where we need to put the lever on. It is important to consider why tourism operators no longer invest so much, why they no longer see a country economically. And if they don't see any more land economically, then, ladies and gentlemen, fire is on the "Tourism roof". The same applies to the equity situation, the decrease in cash flow or the degree of debt. But it also shows – and this is also a confirmation of our right path – that it was right to stimulate urban tourism, because the interest in culture will continue to rise. This clearly demonstrates the increasing number of nights in the cultural high places. Vienna's bed load currently holds about 92 percent. This is almost unbelievable, but the experts are speaking today of the fact that the wellness wave will be covered by a cultural wave. It can also be seen that it was true that, in recent times, one has also gone back to the domestic guest, to the Austrian, and has also worked accordingly on this market. All of this concerns questions of strategy. It is also a strategy problem how Austrian tourism regions can quickly unite under large, meaningful roof marks. The mergers of transport associations in recent years are a clear signal in the right direction, but remember, ladies and gentlemen, that it is no longer enough for the companies of a language to join together the businesses of a region, which was almost unthinkable ten years ago, but thanks to God already will be accomplished. Recently, a South Tyrol tourism expert, Dr. Engel, has said in connection with marketing strategies in the Salzburg country that there is no point in marketing a region like Salzburg City, a region such as the Pinzgau or the Pongau individually, but that it is only useful to face European competition with the entire Salzburg region, that is, the city and the country of Salzburg. I think I'm venerationful Ladies and gentlemen, we have every effort to support those people who are going in this direction that are building a roof for Austrian tourism. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] All in all, I think, my very much revered Ladies and gentlemen, the figures for tourism mentioned earlier could mean a small silver strip on the horizon, but only if the entrepreneurs of the leisure industry are given not only verbal mutant injections, but if for them really material things are happening, and it is the task of the next months to do substantial things in this area. Some have already happened. I would remind you that, thanks to God, the school-ski courses can continue to be held, that new teaching professions can be introduced, that we, Mr Minister, will hopefully soon receive risk capital, that the liabilities will be taken over by the guarantees and the public funds, and of course it is also of substantial importance that the Minister of Finance's decision on all-inclusive travel offers has finally come. Allow me at this point a little sidestep, Mr Peter. First of all, I am pleased that you have already been informed before the corresponding financial decision is out there that you have already received information. And I am also pleased that you have a small foreign feather on your hat, although I cannot remember that before the Minister's decree you have ever discussed whether the cards are coming in, whether the vignettes are coming in, whether the riding instructors are coming in. But they are in it, thank God, and we should be glad that this has come about together. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. May. Peter.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This is not a tax sugar for Austrian tourism hotels, as the newspapers write, but it is a question of the entrepreneurs actually being able to do something and do not have to deal with complicated data instances in order to calculate VAT. Let us work the entrepreneurs, let us follow them up on their profession, and let us not force them to make omissions! It is only a few points which the businessmen may need without the State being taxed financially, where it is really only a matter of making appropriate decisions, amending the relevant laws, in order to achieve benefits for the tourism industry, for tourism. First of all, I am thinking about reducing bureaucracy by package. It is already the third minister who promises to do so, all of this is already prepared in the Ministry of Finance. Minister! Please help us that this package is also carried out! Further points are the reintroduction of the deductibility of business meals, the right to vacation, the youth employment, the blocking of host gardens, the increase in depreciation rates from 4 to 6 percent. – Who of you would like to live in a hotel that has been kept in the same condition for 25 years? It is also about the transfer of operations, the succession of operations. And: We support our entrepreneurs in the introduction of the Internet, as it has been shown that this has an excellent effect on the figures of turnover. All of this, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen, these are legal measures which do not cost much, but which allow the host and the hoteliers to see that something goes on, that they are not just thrown to their feet that it is worthwhile for them to continue to work in their businesses. 50 percent of them will be handed over in the coming years. Even their successors, these young people, we must give them the opportunity to be active. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. May. Peter.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! After the introduction of the 0.5-promille limit, according to the fixed tent system, after the attack-like "action sharp" against many hosts, it is now about setting positive signals. It is an industry whose importance in our country goes far beyond its own sector. It is about an industry – and I think many have already understood this – which is itself a marketing instrument for Austria, which is a worldwide marketing instrument for all Austrian products. It has already been quoted here: Winston Churchill said that the cow to be milked must also be fed accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen! Let's feed this cow, then we have a lot to milk again! High house! The hotel industry, the host – they all shape our lives. The hotel industry, the innkeepers – but also our social development. And I'll tell you one thing: The smallest host in the back valley often affects this development perhaps more than one of our Members in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e8775	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Peter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e8797	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear fleeing mandates of the Austrian People's Party! [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: Lunchtime! The hostess should get something to do!]] Let us take the opportunity to recall the growth sector of the world's tourism and leisure industry. Unfortunately, we have been disconnected from this growth path for five years. We lost our market share, so we got into the backlog. This is particularly true of a country such as Austria, which is still world champions of tourism, absolutely, because the income compensation of economically disadvantaged, transport less favoured regions, especially in Austria, is due to tourism. Tourism policy in Austria itself had few answers to it, it was actually relatively helpless to this phenomenon. It has not understood that there would be a high level of tax revenue, especially from indirect taxes, high employment multipliers, high quality of life in the valleys that people keep there, without tourism. To sum up – and the mayors know this best – tourism is a national "cash-cow". He brings a lot of money to the communities. Whether it is the canal facilities that would not be eligible for financing without the large tourism companies, whether it is the beverage tax or the municipal tax, tourism is an indispensable part for small communities. That's exactly the point, Minister of State. We therefore have farms which are "cash-cow" for the municipalities, for the regions, for the valleys, and precisely their economic development must concern us. You will not improve the balance sheets of businesses from today to tomorrow, Mr. Federal Minister, but that is the point: Become without a hotel You don't have any tourism yet, but a hotel alone doesn't make any tourism yet. The Institute for Commercial and Craft Research has examined, as every year, 16 300 balance sheets. The results are probably not to be questioned: Average sales profitability in tourism is minus 5 percent. Federal Minister! Your problem as a minister responsible for tourism is that the business base is not only breaking away but is already breaking away. This is the problem, and that is why we should be concerned about tourism policy. We should break our heads on what we need to do so that we can get the business base. The market opportunities of Austria are all right. There is a growing demand worldwide, in which unfortunately we cannot participate enough. The situation with the markets is all right. The euro is an essential step towards tourism promotion. The development of the reform states and the enlargement of the East make us hope to win new markets. We have experienced providers, we have an intact environment, the security in our country is spoken literally, the cultural and landscape diversity is great, and we have excellent employees. Federal Minister! Why doesn't it work anyway? The summer of 1998 has brought a trend change. – I hope it’s a trend change. Summer 1998 is a summer of success, and we will see whether winter 1998/99 will be a winter of success. Federal Minister! But why are there so few farms, a maximum of a third that can really work successfully? Do we perhaps have too many inhibiting factors for success? Federal Minister! I don't see your job in letting guests go. That can't be your job, except that you can't. But your job as a Federal Minister is to eliminate the inhibiting factors that start with yourself. You have told us in the Committee that: You don't like it when you play over the band. The questions you received from various Members of this House have been about tourism. Dr. Farnleitner, tourism is a cross-sectional matter, and you are responsible for it! I know you're not Minister of Finance. They are neither Environment Ministers nor Social Ministers. This is known to me, Minister of State. But you are responsible in the Federal Government for finding solutions for the tourism industry within the framework of this cross-sectional matter in conversation with your government colleagues, of whatever party they may be. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] You can't say we're playing over the gang when we ask you very specific questions. The second essential thing is the funding area I have never overestimated. But he has no doubt an important task, and here is a compliment to you: The promotions about liability are undoubtedly right, here you go the right way. But we still have to do the second step: We still need to learn that it will be less important in the future to promote individual business economies, but it will become much more important to promote destinations. There are areas in Austria, tourist offer regions – I call them destinations – that make it from below. There the promotion will have their right from bottom to top. But there are destinations where the business situation is already very bad due to the long time in which one has not accepted this subject, in which one has towed it, in which one has spoken beautifully and has not been prepared to notice this gap in the development which we have been through in the late 1980s. It is not until the beginning of 1992 that we have noticed that we have for too long failed to act. Now we have destinations where the economy is mainly broken, which no longer lends a million. But there you need tourism from regional policy considerations, Federal Minister. Mr. Farnleitner may now say: I'm not a head of state! What's going on? He's playing over the band again. I'm not responsible! – But this is not the subject, Mr. Federal Minister. The topic is cooperation with the nine federal states, the topic is to set things in motion as the Federal Minister for Tourism with the nine speakers responsible for tourism, to create understanding, to introduce new lines and to introduce new decisions. It is therefore a question of the fact that you can no longer be regarded as the cause of a restart, of a re-run of this product, where the business economies are so broken that they will no longer have to focus on the destinations, including the liabilities. I hope that there will be interesting discussions on this. The third point is unemployment. Federal Minister! It is true that at the end of September 30 000 people working in tourism are unemployed. Do you know that 20 000 were unemployed at the end of August? That is, in the month where most of the guests are in Austria, where the highest utilization of capacity is recorded, 20 000 people are unemployed in that month. You have to talk to the Federal Minister for Social Affairs and ask yourself the question: How could that be? That is, a third, if not half of the unemployment in the tourism and leisure industry, which you have attributed to us, where you propose a bonus-malus-system – I am still coming out – comes from a socket unemployment that you cannot charge to the industry, a sector that still has the problem, of course, customer-related, seasonal and weather-related work. It will not be possible to do anything in May and June in Zürs am Arlberg. [[Abg. Böhacker: Hiking can be done in Zürs! Very nice!]] Just as a hoteler, I am called to talk about it because I am a hotel on a lake this year the 16. Year in winter and thus created at least annual work-like jobs. If you want to introduce a bonus malus system today, Minister of Tourism, this means that you can make life even more difficult, because of its location, its regional situation only for certain times. The fourth point is the question of stopping costs. Now you'll say again: I'm not responsible for everything! – Yes, it is because you are a member of this Federal Government! This is a collegial body, and if you say no, nothing will be decided. The costs in our businesses have fallen on the market for five years – commodity use, energy, interest. Overall, costs have increased, but only from State-induced measures. Mr President of the Council! This is not the individual measure, which is the sum of the measures taken here in the House. With each percent increase in labour costs in the service economy, you increase the total cost of this company by 0.4 or 0.5 percent. They are gradually priced out of the market. I am now saving myself to present the long list of increases in costs that have come to the enterprises through laws, regulations, grants and so on. These were the cost increases of the last five years. These have not been reflected in the prices. The market was not ready to honour these prices, with the final effect that we are facing the ruins of a tourism policy today because a third of the farms are more than pleading. – Mr Federal Minister, this cannot even sell a member of the government as a success! I know that you accept this question in many areas. I know that you are trying to counter it in many areas. I have to analyze the consequences as an opposition politician. A request to you – these were the demands of politics; but also there you are not responsible: For example, we have major problems with the entry of our guests from the reform states, from the CIS countries. We have some problems with the entry of our guests from South-East Asian states. It must be possible, by means of travel agencies, by means of proof of a booking with a tour operator or whatever it may be to make it clear that our borders are permeable to these people. The eternal threat, which the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is putting before us, is a popular one. Mr. Haider let us know once again in a television interview: When the Easter enlargement comes, 870,000 people will flood us. That's a cock-bubby nonsense! [[Abg. Haigermoser: This is what the Academy of Sciences says!]] It's just a cocky nonsense. If you read the writing of the Academy of Science and you don't interpret it "haiddersk", you will soon find that it is potential and not threat images. People are always afraid that the evil Slavonic people will come to us, that is the policy of the past, not even the past. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I believe – quite the contrary! – that the opening of the East is a very big step in the future, I believe that this will give us a whole new guest potential. I even believe, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, that we are re-establishing an unnatural state, namely, the unnatural state, which occurred in 1918 and 1945, that people from neighboring countries have become people across the border. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Tourism and leisure will continue to contribute to economic performance and economic development in this country. I would just like it not to make this federal government so difficult with its policy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e8883	The next speaker was Mr Heindl. 10 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e8904	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to say something to the tourism report: It has been transmitted relatively in time for the first time. Much earlier, if you're serious, you can't bring him out anymore. In addition, I would have liked – but perhaps you can do the next year – to include the first half of 1998. Because the current positive trend, which we have seen today – I also recognise – will become even more favourable if we take into account the 1998 figures. I know that this is difficult and does not reflect the whole truth, but a trend in the right or wrong direction of development is certainly evident from it. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Peter spoke of market share losses. There is no doubt that we have had to see the statistics – I think I could put a lot of figures – at the beginning of the 1990s – in 1991 there was the peak of 130 million nights – the following development: increasingly fewer and fewer numbers of nights, in addition – that is the more graver – reducing periods of residence and an ever smaller rate of utilization. Mr Peter! You said: Ruins of tourism policy. Those are very dramatic words. On the one hand, you welcome the fact that a third of the farms have seen a positive development, on the other hand, you say that the whole is a mess. I think you should be careful about this. There is no question that from the beginning of the 1990s we faced two main trends in tourism: On the one hand, there was the extreme development of the outgoing traffic. As a reason for this, cheaper flight travel, long-distance pain, change of values or whatever can be said. We had not only fewer Austrian guests, but also less German. – The figures show how explosive expenditure has developed. If I have the figures correctly in mind, the expenditure in 1989/90 was still around 40 billion schilling and last year, i.e. in 1997, over 90 billion schilling. Thank God it was now the first time stagnant. This, of course, was also a matter of domestic tourism. That is to say, the Austrians did not remain to the extent in the country as before. The result of this was, of course, what I said introductoryly. And if you say now that all of this is due to a false economic policy, tourism policy, then, I think, you make it a little too easy. For if that were the case – so many serious changes we did not have in the tax policy last year – then one, Mr President, could not have taken place: [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Peter]] They themselves have spoken of businesses that have had a positive development. We can see it regionally. When we look at how tourism policy in Vienna, for example, has developed in connection with the cultural events, with cultural policy, with urban tourism, we see – which is reflected in the utilization figures, as Mr Puttinger has rightly said – the following development: away from the high-priced country – we are – away from mass tourism to punctual quality tourism, because the value creation is also exemplary. We know we don't need to talk about that. The expenses of a tourist who comes to us to have a cultural experience are considerably greater than with others. And in this direction, our considerations must go. I fully share your view: We need to see the new markets. We need to remove obstacles that a tourist feels annoying. This tourism report makes it very clear how important the introduction of the euro and the disappearance of the exchange rate will be. It is only necessary to see how dramatic the development of the exchange rate in Italy in 1995 was. We had to record thousands of arrivals less. Of course, the Italian tourist is much more positioned regionally. What did that mean for us? In view of this, we will only be able to assess what this euro will bring to the tourism industry. The analyses also show in this direction, not only what is happening to the euro. The research carried out by the EU – those interested in it will certainly have read it – also shows that there is a huge potential. Now the problem comes again: What is the direction of politics? – Do we keep them up and say, the 4-, 5-star hotels, the 3-, 4-star hotels need to be forced, or do we not force them at all? Did we seek to reduce over-bed capacity in the 2- and 1-star operations? – All of this has been daily in recent years. I am convinced that this has been a reason for the better development since 1997. In 1998 there is probably a continuation. I have heard the last comments from Germany: TUI and Neckermann already have more bookings for this winter by 25 to 30 percent. There you can only hope that in winter the weather will be half-way. – That is, the positive development of summer tourism will continue in winter. Mr Puttinger and Mr Peter. You have already mentioned the trend change; I am still a little more cautious in this regard. I think we should find out the following: 1997 has once stopped the trend down, which has happened since 1991. Whether this is the silver strip on the horizon or the trend turnaround, I don't trust to say it yet. I wish! But we can do one thing, and we can see that now when we look at the figures – Mr Peter said it – from the eastern market. With regard to tourists from Poland, the Czech Republic, Hungary, but also Spain, there were exemplary increases. So if you take such target groups into account, at least the perspective can be put into the room – even though we were so dependent on German tourists – that we reached the valley floor. Now it is about to continue on this path of structural improvements. If we succeed, I am deeply convinced that we will certainly no longer dream of the number of nights spent. There will probably be no more 130 million or more, but it would be enough if we had 110 or 115 million – but these with corresponding value added, i.e. improved utilization, i. extension of the stay. – All of this is going to turn into business again. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] As we always talk about employment, one interesting thing for me was: I have been looking at the bad development since 1991 and at the same time at the development of the employment situation. Interestingly, it did not go down, on the contrary: We have had increases from 154 000 to 161 000, 162,000. This figure was broken down in 1995/96 by only 1 000 people per year. This means that despite all the criticisms of the tourism sector, there is a relatively high level of employment and there has not been any progress in this area. There are many things left to say, but I would like to keep my speaking time. I believe that the policy made by the Minister for Economic Affairs is entirely correct. We must go in this direction: Support regional and event policy, improvement in the 4th, 5 and 3rd and 4th star areas and facilitation in the administrative field for tourism. I believe and am convinced that we are on the right path and that tourism will maintain and perhaps even improve the importance it has for our economy – at least 13 percent of gross national product. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e8982	Mr Oellinger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e9003	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! There is a great deal to be said about the situation of the tourism industry, that we are discussing this question here in front of an almost empty house. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] This, of course, is also linked to what we discussed at the outset. There is no one from our group at the moment. I will also refer to that. It does not have anything directly to do with tourism, but indirectly. The event, which unfortunately takes place in parallel to this meeting, on the subject of "20 years of Zwentendorf", is also about what has to do with tourism, hospitality and the presentation of regions. Ladies and gentlemen! It is also about how Austria presents itself. This decision, which was taken 20 years ago, namely to say no to a nuclear power plant, obviously had no direct influence on tourism, I know that already. But he has helped to develop Austria in a different direction, as have many other punctual decisions, than in those that unfortunately – I emphasize: unfortunately! – currently still dominated in tourism many times and praised as the single savior concept. It is only necessary to look at certain faceless regions across Austria, in which there are scatteredly terrible blocks, which are intended for our tourists to represent the rest and hospitality of Austria. You only need to look at how the remains of nature are still being exploited there, although it is already apparent that everything is exhausted and that in the foreseeable future no one will be satisfied if you only find such sightless landscapes and even villages. In addition, tourists today, especially if they come from other countries, sometimes expect something else. But with us for decades, it has been completely conceptually managed – everything under the growth aspect "We must develop!" And so it became from the small tourist apartment, from the private apartment that has been rented, the 1-star room and the small hotel, and from it became the 2 star hotel. One only has to look at how unconcealedly this area has been managed, then marvel and look forward to the performance of certain regions and tourism as a whole. What amazes me – and I am very grateful to Mr Heindl for his suggestion – is that almost all the debates on tourism in this House are constantly released from the same leader. Mr Peter once again complained about the high social costs and the tax burden. Mr Heindl has therefore rightly pointed out to me that, in recent years and decades, the monetary relations – I am trying to explain this, Mr Peter – have been much more crucial to the development of guest flows from certain countries than the one-percent increase in any tax rate. [[Abg. May. Peter: Maybe it's more than a "leg"!]] [[Abg. May. Peter: That also plays a role! Both of them play a role!]] – I don’t want to deny both of them. However, for the decision of guests whether they are coming to Austria, the fall in the dollar by 5 or 10 percent, which we experience all the time again and again, has a much greater significance, and this cannot be compensated to a significant extent even by means of tax reductions. That would have to be huge tax cuts. But that's just a note. To that end, I also share Mr Heindl's conclusion: I hope that even if I do not see this too optimistic, the introduction of the euro will also achieve a significant improvement in planning capacity for tourism. I hope that this will, at least for large catchment regions of our tourism, produce a planability and comparability for foreseeable time, which would make it much easier for tourism. – This is the one point I wanted to mention: Social costs and tax burden versus currency relationships. That's a note of what I noticed as a layman in this meteor. My second comment concerns tourism advertising. It is always clear – and in recent years more and more clearly – that the concept of tourism advertising, which takes place in Austria in a very small form, will probably not be enough to make us aware of the necessary weight in other countries. If the Gastein Valley advertises for itself, but the village of Gastein, Bad Gastein, Hofgastein and also Sport Gastein make their own brochures, then I would think that many funds are used incorrectly. There is sufficient evidence, but the conclusions are not drawn from it, namely that this form of advertising cannot continue for Austrian tourism, but that resources are being flaunted in this way. - That was the second point. Third point: The burden of the people in tourism. This concerns both the self-employed and the unself-employed. Nor is there any talk about this, namely about the return of what we experience in hospitality or relationship to the guest again and again. This is not only in the columns of the "standard", which has been very worthy of this problem for several months, or in the "headpieces" of the "curer", in which the examples are clearly cited, as in certain areas of tourism, the handling of the guest is still the case. That's terrible and terrible. Everyone and everyone here in the house has probably already experienced his/her experiences with this form of "hospitality". But I claim that this is only the side of what the people who do in tourism – whether self-employed or self-employed – have to bear on the other hand. It is also necessary to work on this. Every concept that appeals to the employees with the motto: "Be kinder, be nicer to the guests!" will fail in the realities, the constraints to which the people who work in the hospitality sector – trade would be a comparable area – are exposed. - That's just a note. Fourth point, Mr Peter has already pointed out: border controls, Schengen. The border controls to which certain guests who come to this country are exposed are not exactly an example of our being inclined to receive all our foreign guests here equally hospitable. On the one hand, large walls are built, on the other hand, there is a relatively large free movement. How do you explain this to the guests? – How do you explain to the guests you want to bring to our country that there are hours of waiting at the borders on the one hand, while on the other hand, guests from EU countries can move freely? The fifth and last point – I just want to point out – is again linked to the first point. Some of what we expect together in tourism could also be achieved through a change in the tax and tax system, for example by ecologizing the tax system that reduces labour costs. However, it could also be achieved in the area of social security contributions, in this case much more clearly than in other areas, namely through value-added approaches to social security contributions. This would be demonstrated by the example of eco-tax and value added tax. If you only wanted the reform, there would be something to do. But it's missing and broken. That is why I am actually sorry that, first of all, this supposedly so important question is simply remedied before almost empty halls. For with a few exceptions – Mr Peter is such; he is also personally affected – one does not experience any of the emphase, enthusiasm and passion on this subject. But this is a very important economic area! It is also of little use as long as the people who watch and observe us here have the feeling that neither the people here, nor the government, who, while constantly complaining and manifesting the illustrious situation in tourism, are interested, show little willingness to change. Minister! In this respect, I would expect more clear concepts not only from you as Minister of Tourism, but from the Federal Government as a whole.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e9058	Mr Magistrate has also been mentioned in the debate. Steindl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e9079	Mr President. Minister! High house! The 1997 tourism report is on the agenda, and I would like to say something in the first place about the presentation itself. The report is very detailed, clear and easy to read without loss of substance. I should like to point out that, before this report was written, the Minister invited the tourist speakers of all the parliamentary groups to set particular priorities. These have been incorporated. This shows that Minister Farnleitner cooperates with Parliament very flexibly, and that is what I mean. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] We know that the tourism industry is largely dependent on the international economic situation. Many things are certainly homemade, but one must not hide that the international economic situation is strongly involved in this area. That is why it is time to use the conventional key figures that we repeatedly use statistically – the number of arrivals, the nights and so on; the Minister has already responded to them – rather to go to the background. In my opinion, they are no longer meaningful. One should take more account of the value-added figures – e.g. turnover and price/performance ratio – because it shows a trend towards more frequent and shorter journeys, to spontaneous journeys, i.e. the number of arrivals increases, the number of nights decreases. It is therefore time to standardize new, better standards. The tourism structure. If we read through this tourism report, we must also see that the federal government can only create framework conditions, because the fields of action in the tourist sector are not at federal level, but in every region, that is, with ourselves. A proverb says: The most difficult way a person can take is between purpose and execution. – It is not at the Ministry or at the Federal Government, but it is very often located in the different regions, which is made up of tourism. Of course, the framework conditions must also be voted, and I would now like to address some of the issues that have already been mentioned. Issue of equity base. The companies have been fighting against a capital injection for a very long time. This is worrying because it is more and more powerless to face the competitive pressure of the companies. The need for renewal in the tourism sector can hardly be financed anymore. This, of course, leads to the second problem, namely the succession of businesses. In this respect, there is a survey by the Fessel-Gfk-Institute, which clearly demonstrates that a large number of businesses, namely 24 per cent, have thought or thought of a closure. And of these companies, 47 percent believe in definitely having to close the hotel on their future plans. I think that's a call! It can't go on like this. That is why we have already thought about it by the EIA and will bring it into the tax reform negotiations. These points have already been mentioned today. We absolutely want to strengthen the capital base! This is a very important point in our tax reform concept. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, we want to ensure that business succession can be guaranteed, that the company's inheritance tax is abolished. This tax is anti-performance and inhibits a lot of young entrepreneurs or deters many young entrepreneurs from taking over the parental business. There are also several other measures, such as the extension of the apprenticeship rate or the promotion of development and research, but especially in the tourist sector, the first three points I mentioned are of particular importance. Another problem field or field of activity of tourism is Eastern Europe. From this area are very many and more guests. They are daily tourists, short-term tourists, but of course they offer us a huge opportunity. As a Burgenländer, I know what I'm talking about. Minister! For me it is always fascinating to come into contact with Hungary, Czechs, Slovaks or Slovenians and see how good they are in the German language and how they already align their offer. We could take an example of this! I wonder where, for example, there are Hungarian or Czech menus. – We don't find anything like that. Where do we offer something in other languages? [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Smolle.]] It is sometimes a question of mentality, a question of attitude, as we see the other people. We are still talking about tourism very often. But they're not strangers, they're guests! Thank God there are no longer reports of tourism, but of tourism. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] – That means that this is probably also a question of recruitment. For the Burgenland, I would like to highlight the installation of the University of Applied Sciences for International Economic Relations as very positive, in the context of which we are trying to open up the Eastern Market accordingly. Thank God tourism management also becomes more professional with us in Burgenland. Through Objective 1 funding, we have created a large number of key operations that give initial inflammations and impulses for the region. Thank God we are also able to develop common advertising strategies. It was, for example, in the area of Lake Neusiedler, from where I came, inconceivable some time ago that communities could join forces and develop an advertising strategy together. This was totally unimaginable years ago. Thank God there is now a GesmbH, in which the associations and the communities are united and through which one tries to apply a region, namely the Neusiedler See, together – not only Purbach or Morbian or Rust. I think that is the right way to go. In order to stay in Burgenland, I can still argue that the thermal landscapes are also applied together, meaning a health holiday in Lutzmannsburg, Bad Tatzmannsdorf or Stegersbach. All of these are appropriate approaches that are very positive. We in Burgenland have also seen huge investments in the tourism sector in recent years. As a Objective 1 area, we have a great need for follow-up, and we have put a lot in the promotions. For example, in 1997 alone, eligible costs amounted to 517 million schillings. That's just a fraction taken out. – We are really trying to help tourism jump. As mayor in this region, let me comment on a very sensitive problem, namely the drinking tax. In the run-up to a possible EU decision, it is discussed very much and very contrary. I see one point of view, but I also see the other point of view. I would just like to point out that the local authorities are not only paying this tax, they are creating a lot of infrastructure in the tourism sector and are making these investments, especially in economic times. I suggest that we wait for the EU decision and then take appropriate measures. It must not, however, be so that the municipal finances can be undermined. If there is a discussion on this, then we must try to provide assistance to the communities by means of financial compensation. I'll come to the end. I believe that the 1997 tourism report, but also the 1998 data, gives us reason to hope. I see this as very optimistic. I mean, Minister, we are on the right path, and we should not let this go. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e9197	Mr Haigermoser is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e9219	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I wanted to enter into a dialogue recently with Mr Puttinger, the tourist speaker of the ÖVP. But today this has been a difficult undertaking, because Mr Puttinger was actually two people in one, namely a member of the government and a member of the opposition at the same time. Mr Puttinger, you are probably already training for the next legislative period, where the "light" will not only shine, but become reality. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Puttinger.]] Mr Puttinger! I really appreciate you personally, but today's letter to the Christkind could have saved you. We expect the socialist coalition not only to act verbally for tourism, but also to implement those things that you advocated today. That is the central question, ladies and gentlemen. But I believe, Mr Federal Minister, without wishing to put something to you, that I note one sentence from you, that the tourist heart is not in the right place for you. You said in committee – I quote literally –: The Minister is concerned about whether a tourism company decides to invest or not! – Whether this sentence should be kept short. – I can only say: It can only figure out what's slumbering in the belly, Mr. Federal Minister! I know you can't force every tourism company to invest, but go beyond that and say: "My body food is the slime, and in the rest, the story doesn't interest me!" is not the thinking which is justifiable to a cross-sectional matter and which Helmut Peter also advised. I would therefore like to say to you: You should also accept a more positive tourism policy climate in addition to the tourism report that you have made your own and in which you have accommodated many things that would be to be processed or cut off. You didn't. With this one sentence you liked the mask from the face, Mr. Federal Minister! We liberals will always point out that you do not represent the concerns of tourism with that vehemence, as is now stated by the tourist speakers of the ÖVP at least verbally. This also means clearly and clearly that the huge achievements of the tourism industry in Austria in this country are not supported, not accompanied, Mr Puttinger. It is sad that you too have voted in favour of all the requests made by the liberals in support of the tourism industry. That's the problem, and that's why you've been messed up with your friends at the recent meeting in Eisenstadt, too, colleague Puttinger. I emphasize: Get out of here! I don't wonder. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Puttinger.]] – Don't talk to the opposition again! You should rule, not just sit on the bench! Government is called acting, Mr Puttinger! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] How else do headlines come about in your central organ "ÖGZ", the black headline, funded with forced membership contributions, such as: "The hosts are the gameball of politics!"? – Minister of State! That doesn't mean any less than your party friend Buemberger. He says: "The measure is full" – not "the measure", but "the measure," Mr. Federal Minister – "the hostess is rising to the barricades, a march on Vienna is about to take place." That must have a reason! The dissatisfaction must have a humus. Who or what is this humus? The "Godly" creation of laws, regulations, statistics? – "Stasswahn" always says Puttinger again and again. The cause of this barricades rise – 150 years after the revolution of 1848; now the host comes to line – is socialist politics with ÖVP remnant, ladies and gentlemen! That is the problem: you are not willing to make nails with heads, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You are not willing to start at least once, to cut down the problems on the checklist, to show once what is the matter, instead of just writing letters to the Christian child, possibly with a special stamp of Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen! That's not enough! Federal Minister! I also have to say a sentence on the Austrian advertising. You have dealt with this issue in the Committee as if all the reports on this matter were not voting. I can't judge this, but it won't be so wrong and drawn to the hair if you read, for example, that "here and fire" is on the agenda in Austria's advertising. Since Michael Höferer took office in 1996, 90 employees have left the Austrian advertising. Partly excellent employees have gone overboard, and then you read – I quote –: "An exhilaration for Austria advertising – Farnleitner is considering changes". Federal Minister! If you are considering changes, then there must be some wrong. But in the committee you said it was all palette, it was all right, there was nothing. There are only a few restructurings under way, so you have to put your head in the sand. I would therefore ask you once again: Is it true what the rumors say – I emphasize "debts"; give us an answer; if it is not true, then put the cards on the table – that bad advertising slogans, waste of tax money, high gags, expensive service cars and, last but not least, alleged illegalities at the new OW subsidiary "Tourism-Marketing" are at the heart of an anonymous presentation of matters? That's a very strong tobak that's questioning. Who else, if not the opposition – if it doesn't puttinger – should and must do so, Mr. Federal Minister? . In the Committee you said that it was all palleti, everything is fine, it does not concern us that your hands would be washed in innocence. – The lavoir of innocence carries Farnleitner before him. Ladies and gentlemen! That is not enough, that is, you have here and today to tell the National Council whether it is right or not. I now come to speak of a double practice in the field of the EIA, in relation to the fixed tent system. We know what happened. At an event, no less than Mr. Luke – I quote – says: On several occasions, it was called for to repeal the tent festival scheme adopted in Parliament, according to Lukesch, that this was not only a severe defeat, but the scheme was also unconstitutional. – This is what Mr. Lukesch, his sign of Tyrolean, tells us, exactly that Tyrolean Lucisch, who just a few weeks earlier agreed to this unconstitutional tent festival scheme! Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! I have to ask you again: Are you in the opposition or in the government? Finally, decide! I know you're constantly being pulled by the comrades over the coalition table, but tell the public at least! Dispensing You drink her pure wine and don't always make this double-duty policy, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Finally, in order to keep up with the time-consuming economy, I would like to say that tourism in Austria has not deserved such a government policy, because 161,817 people work in the hospitality industry. There are 109 million nights per year, 4.57 days is the average duration of stay, and unfortunately there is only 30 percent bed load – including a product of your misguided structural policy. All the workers and economic operators in this area have truly deserved a serious tourism policy and not empty promises in Sunday's speeches, but active action by the coalition, the Federal Government. You, Federal Minister for Tourism, are responsible for this!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e9291	Mr Farnleitner has been reported to speak. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e9313	Mr President. High house! I would like to address at least two intervening questions because they may be able to influence the later course of the discussion. Firstly, I have been asked what the figures of this year are. According to the figures available to me, we expect a total increase in sales of 5 per cent in the year as a whole, and also for the next year, given the now foreseeable developments, there is a similar growth. In the summer months of May to September, we had an increase of 7 percent, i.e. 83 billion schilling. Those who claim that we generally have a crisis scenario after such a summer were not on the market. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My second observation: For the first time – and this is what I come to Mr Haigermoser – after we have been investing in capacity for years in this industry, we now see that we have the task of creating financial instruments. This also concerns the necessary refinancing by Mr Peter. If Mr Haigermoser's statements are already quoted by me from the committee, I would also ask you to remember that I said: The Minister of Economic Affairs is only responsible – but very probably responsible! – to make the appropriate framework conditions for investment decisions. . I will allow myself, Mr President, to give an example from the Committee. It only takes two minutes. The model, partly named after my name in the ÖHT, works as follows. I'll read to you the example of a company that, with a capacity of 100 beds, a turnover of 15 million schillings, a "cash flow" before interest of 3 million, debt of 45 million and a reinvestment requirement of 4 million schillings had a equity ratio of minus 5 percent and a decommissioning period of 150 years. The transcriber came to us, to the ÖHT, to me, and asked: What model do you offer me for the future before I take over this operation? The model that he was offered and which he also took then provided for the following due to these new financing techniques. I'll start with his own contribution: A sale of land brings 4 million schilling, the removal of the claims of the house bank 6 million, a long-term loan – that is, at least 10 years only 2.5 percent interest and no annuities – 14 million schilling, the old loan of the house bank to 4 percent 21 million, and a new loan with federal liability to 4.75% to 15 years brings 4 million more. This means that the operation of these newly restructured debt costs a total of 2.6 million, with a cash flow of 3 million. For the first time, the entrepreneur, who takes over, can even calculate that he could live from the holding at all times. I would like to show by this example that it is indeed so that I do not interfere with whether an entrepreneur decides to invest or not. Therefore this culinary name. However, I will try very much to ensure that we offer the best conditions of refinancing and financing to those who wish to continue investing in the sector. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let me also say a sentence on the development of insolvency, because there is also a need for more refocused parts. In 1987/88 we had a marked improvement in the insolvency rate in tourism, because the increasing turnover and the new funding horizons have caused other farmers to try to re-establish the investment sector. And the insolvency rate – measured by the overall economy is 1.8 percent overall – is significantly lower in tourism at 0.89 percent. I therefore ask that both of these elements be taken into account in the discussions. On the one hand, we are again dealing with a growth path in the sales sector with an increase in revenue per night or stay, and on the other hand, we are dealing with significantly better financing conditions than during the period of the crisis in the early 1990s. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e9374	Thank you very much, Minister of State. Mr Kiermaier has now been reported to speak. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e9398	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Two comments on the comments made by my previous speakers. Mr Oellinger argued that there are relatively often employees and also owners of businesses that are unkind. Of course there is. [[Abg. Haigermoser: I would also be unkind to the oillinger!]] There's that in every industry, everywhere. I have also experienced officials who, when standing in front of the switch, are also not friendly, and craftsmen who are not friendly. That's everywhere, you shouldn't generalize it. There are nice and polite people everywhere, and also dominated in our industry, I think I can say the kindness. Mr Steindl referred to the food cards in Czech and Hungarian. I think he's right. That's where we have to get in the nose. The tourists from Eastern Europe come to us more and more thanks to God on vacation, so it is important that we take this trend into account. Federal Minister! I would like to congratulate you very much on this report. He likes me, he's not only new from the layout, but he's also very rich and he's busy – and that's, as I mean, especially important – not only with data from the past, but also with strategies for the future. He is, as I think, striking a bridge from the Ministry to the Parliament, to the tourism sector and to all those forces that are involved in tourism in that country. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The guest survey contained in the report is, for example, an important matter, because only when you know what the guests think can you act accordingly. Or, in particular, these priority issues, which were discussed in the report on page 58, or the basic statements on page 61 concerning the "new tourists" are very, very interesting. I would, however, like to be concerned with a segment of this report, i.e. the elderly, because time no longer allows. The area of tourism, described in the report as "silver market" or as "The grey panthers", is a highly interesting area, I can assure you. This guest circle is not only economically interesting, it is also very pleasant to serve. And if, like me, you've been working in this industry for decades, you know what you're talking about. It is true that precisely this circle has moved me to rethink in my own company. I would like to give you this as an example because, as I believe, it is not uninteresting to develop new strategies. It has already been said: The capacity of the beds is too large. I therefore began to change to a new system. I'm currently building an old man's house at home. I will convert the accommodation part into small apartments, into small apartments and will in the future live with me all the time around the 35 people. I would not only like to achieve my business outcome with these people, but also to be a central focus of their lives for them. I am telling you that because I think that some of the owners of a business in the region in question, where it fits – and of course it has to be the right location – should think about this, because these new structures can more or less help to achieve full utilization. This matter has a very interesting aspect. One can, together with the Community and the region, achieve one thing, namely that the elderly do not have to be torn out of their usual environment, because they understandably do not want to leave their region, their place. If a stay in the family association is not possible and a private or a charitable organization takes the issue into its hands and creates the appropriate opportunities for this elderly person to stay at home, then this is a very positive aspect. It was very interesting for me to hear that the head of state of Lower Austria, Lies Prokop, said at the opening of a care contract in an Altenheim, the state of Lower Austria retreats completely from this area and concentrates only more on the care stations. This means, for me, that private and charitable organisations are required to take up this area. I think that's a good thing, and hope it'll be a good thing in my case too. Finally, I would like to make a small margin point. I recently got the opportunity to talk about the beer glasses because of a press release in the ORF. It was on the show "Austria today". It was about the famous 0.4 and 0.5-liter glasses. I have therefore spoken on this issue because I just don't like it if we follow everything that's going on around it. Just because it's so common in Germany, we don't have to do it for a long time. Why do I say that? – Because I believe that this is symptomatic for many other things. At that time, before joining the EU, we tried with all the means of advertising – not advertising – that is falsely said – with all the means of conviction to make people's accession tasty, namely right. But at the time we said one thing: We want the amenities of this great habitat, but we do not want unity, either economic or cultural, or in any other area of life. It is therefore, as I believe, very useful if each country preserves its characteristics. Everyone, when he travels on vacation, is looking for the desired charm in the respective country. One wants to eat this, the other wants to eat it. We don't want the pizza à la "You are fish" from Alaska to the Urals or the burger in all the treasures. For us, it is important that every region, every country, concentrates on its own uniqueness. And we should defend that, as I mean. Finally, as always, I would like to take the opportunity to thank all my colleagues, from the washer to the cleaning power, from the apprentice to the hotel director, for the work they have done as colleagues and Members of this House. Mr Puttinger has already said this today, and we should not forget that we are ambassadors to this country and that one who is well-occupied with us in a house may be making more advertising for this country than some other institution. - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e9434	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Haider. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e9455	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Federal Minister, in your last speech, you have expressed the view that there are reasonable and interesting financing opportunities for tourist companies and have shown the case of a renovation. But that does not solve the problem in truth! I do not think that we as the minister responsible for tourism should disappear over the fact that the problem of rehabilitation has arisen because the prevailing conditions do not work. Otherwise, 80 percent of local tourism companies would have to be unable to make a successful economy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You only need to look at the capital development of our tourist companies. Austria is a classic country with small and medium-sized tourist farms. We do not have the large hotel chains, we do not have the large restaurant chains, we do not have the huge capacity with hotel blocks and guest rooms in mass, which are placed in a hotel village somewhere, but it is the classic family business that appears in Austrian tourism, and this one has an equity problem. There's nothing to do with saying we're taking this equity ceiling away from the companies first, and then they're allowed to come to us and we're rehabilitating them. Then we go to the banks, and the banks are gracious and say we leave this one a little bit, because he has a good relationship with the minister or someone in the hotel loyalty hand who says he directs it to me. And the other one who doesn't find the way there, unfortunately, stops. This is not an economic policy! That's why we say "Virligians." Finally, do what the party that comes from you is constantly calling for! Realize a tax system that is capital-friendly and thus favours investment and does not require reorganisation if someone is successful. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is also the reason why we have told you this morning in the morning, but also in this debate, we are telling you: The "flat tax" tax model proposed by us is also a fair system for small and medium-sized enterprises and takes into account, for example, what the European Commission has promoted in its SME report. This report states: The main obstacles to small and medium-sized enterprises in Europe are the exaggeration of additional wage costs and the lack of capital base. The appropriate way would be to favour the profit which has not been taken into account in tax terms, and a positive development could also be initiated in terms of employment policy as well as investment. This is our proposal, which we make with our model: Any entrepreneur who invests can write off its investments to 100 percent in the first year, and if he does not make it because of his profit situation, he can present it. This is an incentive to finance the cash flow, which is an equity-friendly orientation, and it represents a tremendous change over what we now have. This is especially true for tourist companies. For I do not think that we have different opinions here when I tell you that no industry is forced to invest as quickly as tourism, because guest behaviour is constantly changing. It is always necessary to make a new offer, it is always necessary to reinvestment, and it is always necessary to respond to the changed guest behaviour as appropriate. Since the depreciation periods of five years, of nine years, of 15 years, of 20 years of age, do not benefit me at all if the product is already outdated at a time when I can still write it off. They must offer the opportunity to invest quickly and unbureaucratically, and those who invest have to get the tax exemption. That's the corresponding thing, that creates jobs! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There are a lot of arguments that also come from ÖVP people. Your Economic Council in Upper Austria represents the same model, and Mr Puttinger also represents it within the framework of the Economic Federation. I'm just wondering: What does the ÖVP do in this Federal Government? – For six years it has promised the same thing we want, but you have not supported a single request so far, you have not agreed to a single request! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: If you write down 10 million schillings, don't increase your equity at all! The equity base will not become stronger if you write down 10 million! You have to earn it once!]] I'm not talking about the big Puttinger juggling with the millions. I am talking about that family business, which is the norm in Austria, Mr Puttinger, and he says: If I make a profit, then let me invest the money, and do not take it away from me, so that I will have to seek funding again. That's our philosophy! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That's our philosophy! Everything else is actually economic corpse-floating, so to speak, where the Minister of Economic Affairs, the hotel loyalty, rehabilitation companies have to be used, where the bureaucracy decides whether an investment was good or bad, where the bureaucracy decides whether a business is viable or not. Forget that at last! If you take seriously what you say in your programs, namely the bureaucracy is too big, the influence of the state is too big, the equity ceiling is too thin, then, please, finally act after it, and does not create any loud new crutches that bring back bureaucratic decisions! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Another point that is important. I have here a notice from the Chamber of Commerce in Styria, from the apprenticeship office. There a Greek restaurant that would like to train apprentices is forbidden to train apprentices, because the vocational school plan is based on Austrian cuisine. The final examination tasks, starting from the practical examination to the technical discussion, also provide for the local cuisine and the use of technical expressions of Austrian cuisine. Therefore, a Greek restaurant, an Italian restaurant, a French restaurant, a Belgian restaurant, a Spanish restaurant that operates in Austria, has settled the business license in Austria, pays taxes in Austria, no apprentices can train – according to the Chamber of Commerce. And the same Chamber of Commerce says we need to make an apprenticeship offensive together with the Minister so that we can accommodate more apprentices in our gastronomy companies. But if one is in a Greek restaurant, he does not learn the technical expressions of Austrian cuisine. I would let that happen if this line were really maintained. But I wonder – because you are now so proud that you have created a new teaching profession, the system gastronomy: Whoever is employed as an apprentice at McDonald's or at another Hamburger chain can take his apprenticeship there. But what is Austrian about the Hamburger and the McDonald’s chain? [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: The Klops!]] You beat yourself with your own arguments! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is also typical for the Austrian Chamber of Commerce! They are all sitting up, one after another, talking big about tourism, talking big about the apprentice offensive and forbid the tax paying, employment and economically successful enterprises in Austria to train apprentices. So it's really not going any more stupid! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! Therefore, my request to really think about whether it would not be possible to make perhaps the requirement for those companies offering foreign cuisine in Austria to introduce an Austrian facet as part of its culinary offerings, so that thousands of young people can also take up training in these establishments. That would, I think, be more reasonable to give than subsidies so that children, young people who do not find a apprenticeship, are "parked" at the WIFI, are "parked" at the BFI or "parked" in a vocational school, where they do not have practical vocational training, but are permanently transferred to any institution, bureaucracy or any apparatus. It would probably be a failure to offer additional training places in the establishments. Finally, Mr Federal Minister, I would like to ask you, because you, as a tourism minister, have not yet appeared so spectacularly – I admit, you were busy with other things this year, so to speak, you were more "under the ground" – not just talking about the great recovery visions. Solve for the local economy, solve the practical problems of everyday life for the tourism industry, and the people concerned are already very satisfied! Perhaps then, Mr Puttinger also points out that sometimes this is much better to develop than big visions. So solve the problem, for example, of labour inspectors, who are sometimes acting in the enterprises today, as if they were Russian political commissioners from Ukraine or elsewhere. In my opinion, this is a subject that is still unsatisfyingly regulated, which would also be discussed in the Federal Government's lap and which undoubtedly leads to a lot of frustration in the businesses – much frustration! For it is already so far that the following can happen, as this happened at Katschberg in a hotel: A maid who goes out of the kitchen on time every night waits in the front room at the bar in the workwear for it to be picked up by his parents. If the father comes 10 minutes after 9 o'clock, the labour inspector says there is a penalty for the teacher, because the girl was found in the service clothing after completion of work – I emphasize: not in the kitchen, not in the service, but sitting at the bar, waiting for his parents. [[Call the SPÖ: It's all wrong!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That's all right! That's all right!]] One can now say that the girl has to move, so to speak, if the dad picks it up to take it home for these 10 minutes or this quarter of an hour. – I really think it is embarrassing to miss 42 000 S of punishment for the teacher concerned. [[Abg. Haigermoser: (in the direction of the Abg. Dr. Puttinger) That's it! That's it, Günter!]] These are precisely the reasons why so many people in our country are so "frusty". You have to put this off, Minister. You have the competence to do so. This power you must have, then make life easier for people!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e9600	Mrs Gatterer is now speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e9679	Mr President. Federal Minister! The 1997 Tourism Report also identifies Austria as one of the most tourism-intensive countries in the world. Mr Puttinger and several other speakers have already pointed out that Austria, with the share of gross domestic product generated from tourism, is really the world's leader and also leaves tourism countries such as Spain, Portugal, New Zealand, Greece, Turkey and Ireland far behind. [[Abg. Böhacker: Carinthia! Carinthia!]] It is particularly gratifying – and there are optimists and pessimists; some say the turnaround has taken place – that the report is proof that the negative trend in tourism has been reversed for the first time since 1992 and that, as the Minister has shown, thanks to God, all the data in tourism is positive in 1998 and the trend trend seems to be really persistent. Even in Carinthia, tourism has developed very positively in the summer. This positive summer season – and this has also been demonstrated by some previous speakers today – has not been able to solve all the problems. I'm sure that's true. But it has given some air to many businesses, including those in the critical field. Now it's just about using the margin gained and strengthening these businesses again. If Mr Dr. Haider said that the Minister for Economic Affairs had not appeared so strongly in tourism this year, I would like to say exactly the opposite. Because the EU Presidency has been excellently used for tourism, and all the federal states – and I am particularly grateful as Members of the Carinthian Party – have been able to present their tourist values, the advantages of their country in the best light. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: In Carinthia! In Carinthia!]] I think that's something we should underline. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The global advertising effect that this Presidency has brought on us, I believe, will be clearly felt in tourism over the next few years, and I think that was a real opportunity that has been used to the full. However, I would also like to ask for the full support of the Federal Government for the "Winter Games without Borders" in 2006. I think the Carinthians have presented themselves very well with the Friuli and Slovenia regions at IOC. I think that was very positive. At the presidency too, Carinthia has been able to prove that we are very well able to organise major events, that there is absolute security and that the infrastructure in this area fits. I believe that the EU Presidency has basically put the sample to the test. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Above all, the advertising effect – for Carinthia, of course, but also for Austria as a whole – is not to be underestimated. For winter tourism is something that only a few countries in the world can offer, while there are many competitors where the so-called "eternal sun" is concerned. I believe that this would be a huge opportunity for Austria, for Carinthia, for which the Federal Government should give its full support. I would like to highlight two points on the tourism report. Mr Marolt has complained that this report contains little readings for businesses. I would also like to make a very positive statement on this: If you have read the report, you will have found that it has also dealt with fundamental statements on current tourism trend research and that many trend trends can really be seen for tourism operators and tour operators. I think that the data has been very well prepared if you read what the new tourist will expect, where the tourism focus will be and so on. Trends towards more wellness and holiday tourism, to more demanding travel offers, but also to cheaper travel, to shorter and more frequent trips and so on are shown. This too should be stressed, and I can only say that this is very well-designed in the tourism report. It is also shown positively that tourism will no doubt be one of the most hopeful growth sectors in the future, even for workers, an advantage that cannot be stressed often enough. The second point is that this report really shows the whole range, from the growing market in the senior sector to the smiled, but at least – if it goes to Faith Popcorn, the future researcher – not quite utopian virtual journeys and new worlds of experience that open up when virtual worlds are shown in Austria and give the impression that you are on the palm beach and so on. I believe that this too is something that should at least be touched on in a report. Another positive statement in this report, which I would like to draw out once again, is that Austria is still the most popular holiday destination in the Austrians. This too speaks very much for our tourism, for kindness, for professionalism in this area and also for the variety of offers. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I think we should also strengthen our efforts in this area. Senior tourism has already been mentioned, but we should also invest even more effort in family-friendly tourism. There are already very positive initiatives, but of course we also need to ensure that the use of our leisure, sports and cultural facilities, that the opportunities and facilities in tourism can also be financed for families. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl:... leave the money to the families!]] I could imagine that together we are thinking about perhaps introducing a family card that could benefit from more favourable rates with the families. That would be something we should consider so that families can use the large infrastructure, leisure and tourism facilities in Austria at affordable prices. Above all, we need to know: If the children can really experience and use the beauty and diversity of Austria, they will learn to appreciate it, and it will hopefully also be in the future tourism reports that Austria is the most popular holiday country of the Austrians!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e9759	Mrs Haller has now been reported to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e9780	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! That what is called a tourism policy in Austria is a disastrous matter, that is not just the liberals. It does not benefit from this whole report, nor from the beauty of the government parties, when it comes to getting this fact really off the table. At first glance, this tourism report shows rather positive data, which is already true. But in reality, one has tried several things – probably – in order not to make the negative sides manifest. For example, in recent times the overall overview has been left out, so as not to have a real comparison with previous years. Federal Minister! Explain Please also ask me what data from the field of consumer electronics, clothing, toys or lottery have to do with the data of the tourism area. These can only be used to water down the real results. I therefore believe that this report is simply not meaningful in many areas, nor in the area of increasing revenue, which is partly due to price increases. The structural measures that have long been necessary have not yet been implemented. Another area, Minister of State: Expenses for foreign travel have increased consistently and considerably, but revenue is falling. This is a reason why there is an blatant deterioration in the travel balance. We are not talking about this, nor is we talking about the serious impact of the trade deficit, nor are we offering any countermeasures. In the international field too, you have shown little commitment from your department, Mr. Federal Minister. It has been seen how the role of the EU's tourism representative in the Directorate-General 23 has been given to a Greek – which will certainly also help to ensure that there will continue to be senseless tourism projects supported by the EU in the south of Europe, such as an unusable huge marina in Sardinia, which I have seen myself. A large child of concern that exists throughout Austria – and this report cannot cover up either – is the area of accommodation and restaurants. Exploitation is declining, debt has increased, investment has slowed down. There is an absurdly rising cost pressure in this area. And why? – Of course, due to wrong political steering measures, for which you, Federal Minister, and your government are responsible. Under these conditions, the Austrian tourism industry must face an increasing international competition! Finally, a comment on "Austria advertising". The "Austria advertising" has set up a obviously not completely clean new society, which apparently only serves to get money out of the pocket to tourism organisations and thus to the already heavily damaged tourism companies – the tourism companies that soon cannot withstand this cost pressure, Mr. Maitz – through the promenade they have to pay, through the chamber envelopes, through the tourism contributions, through the increasingly wide-ranging advertising contributions in the "Austria advertising" in the national advertising. In this respect, however, no solutions are offered. I would like to say the following to you at the end of the day, Mr Federal Minister: In fact, every businessman in Austria who is still active in this field should be given a medal for earnings around the Republic of Austria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Because under these conditions, a right and efficient tourism industry is simply no longer possible. I really call on you to finally put in place structural measures.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e9835	Mr Magistrate has also been mentioned in the debate. Maier. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e9857	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank Mr Haider for his excellent report. The fairy tale hour with the dream girl only starts at 7 pm, and we know what we have to think of these stories: They're just not true. – Please note! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would also like to take the opportunity to reject, with all due emphasis, the comparison in which you, Mr Haider, compared labour inspectors with political commissioners. That is an absolutely unacceptable comparison. You know exactly why work inspectors are necessary. If you read the reports on accidents in the workers' sector, you will know what work will be necessary in this regard. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! The report before us today is in principle acceptable. I do not want to address the figures and balance sheets here – that has already been done by my previous speakers – but I would like to address a problem that has completely fallen, namely the situation of holidaymakers as consumers. The standard of guest satisfaction, ladies and gentlemen, is the guest survey. We need to look at these data more closely. It should be noted that the survey of the Austrian guests was less favourable in winter than in summer. What was particularly criticized was the price-performance ratio for drinks, food, skips and lift cards. The report does not say anything about this. I see a deficit in this. However, conclusions would have to be drawn from this. Mr Federal Minister, I know your ten-point programme, which you presented in Mayrhofen in the Zillertal. But I have also missed appropriate approaches in this respect. I now assume that there are problems for domestic and foreign tourists and holidaymakers who are not, however, addressed. I should like to remind you that there is also a recent report from the European Parliament's Committee on Transport and Tourism on improving the safety and rights of consumers. The report does not address this very issue so far. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Guest satisfaction has to do with consumer protection. Allow me, therefore, to address a number of problems which concern the Austrian leisure industry, tourism, especially gastronomy, and which are not included in this report without a right to completeness. We expect that many of these measures could be eliminated by effective control – which is not available at present. We have the problem of failing to comply with the provisions of the pricing law. That's why you get the question "Do you have a menu?" responds: No, we only have postcards. [[Abg. Böhacker: That's another story!]] If checks are carried out, then it will be assumed that 20 to 30 percent of the rules of the pricing law are not complied with. [[Call to the liberals: Who said that? The fairy tale hour starts at 7:00 p.m.]] Let's take a look at the law of measurement and squirrel. There are clear rules on the calibration of the glasses. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! A third – perhaps even more – of the Austrian companies use unbleached glasses. Another example would be the provisions of the Industrial Code concerning the two cheap non-alcoholic beverages. 15 to 20 percent of Austrian companies do not comply with this scheme. I would like to take this opportunity to point out a particular problem in the area of Austrian gastronomy, namely that, as happened recently in Salzburg, alcoholic beverages are distributed free of charge to young people: 5 Tequila around 100 S! Our youth is simply being filled with such hard drinks. I ask you, Minister of State, what you are doing so that these maladministrations can be eliminated. But I also wonder why you have dissolved the travel agency in your ministry. There is, on the one hand, a Commission recommendation on the extrajudicial settlement of consumer disputes, because judicial proceedings are so long and related to costs, and this positive conciliation body is set up by your ministry! Federal Minister! Serious entrepreneurs in the tourism and leisure industry have our full support. They lay the basis for the positive figures in this sector of the economy. Nevertheless, we believe that enforcement must take measures to improve the legal status of consumers and to reestablish this conciliation body. Finally, I would like to see a chapter devoted to this consumer problem in the future tourism report. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e9909	Mr Blünegger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e9930	High house! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If I have just heard colleagues from Maier who, among other things, spoke of a fairy tale hour of our Federal Party observer or, in this case, from Mr Dr. Haider, I am opposed to the fact that, in my opinion, a fairy tale hour has been held in this House for 13 years, because for so long, there is this great coalition. I've always heard promises and nothing reasonable. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I have also not heard much about the tourism sector and nothing about the fact that the seasonal workers, who were once treated by the government coalition of SPÖ, would have received reliefs or improvements. I think that's where it's going. In my opinion, seasonal workers in the hospitality sector need better support, and that is why it is also a concern of us liberals to do so. Because only with the praises of the great coalition can we not start anything. We liberals believe that the tourism and leisure industry in our society is both of enormous importance to our economy and serves as a compensation for the current account. As a worker, I also consider the employment of employees in Austria to be very important in this area. I come from a region which, among other things, is very much connected with tourism. The West of Austria has values above that of Austria in tourism. One example: 59.7% of the nights are in the west of Austria alone, which is 43.3 nights per person. These are figures from which it can be concluded that the West of Austria has a very large dominant position in the area of tourism, which is very important not only for the economic sector but also for workers, Mr Federal Minister. I do not understand Mr Puttinger, who has spoken in his speech today about what he wants to achieve, although he has been working in this area for years. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Listen, Mr. Colleague! I have said what we have achieved and what we want to achieve!]] In fact, he should have told the Federal Government that it should finally take action against what we liberals want and what the ÖVP wants: Improvements in tourism in different areas. And of course he could have said one more thing: 13 years we have heard great words, but not much else. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But we know, ladies and gentlemen, that the international competitive situation and the share of revenue in tourism have deteriorated since 1991. Mr Federal Minister, you yourself have clearly documented in your report that the longer-term market shares from 1980 to 1997 are accompanied by an increase in the supply of tourism by 9.5%. This is a development that we must say that you, Mr Federal Minister, should not now try to explain the situation of tourism in Austria. Do it at last! Put acts in an area which, among other things, has also included the ÖVP in its programme and which we Liberals have been representing for years! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] However, we still have to wait for a reduction in the obstacles to self-employment, Minister of State. We are still waiting for a tax relief, a reduction in VAT and so on. We are still waiting for investments in future tourism projects. I also lack clear concepts that the Austrian inn can survive. These are certainly demands of which we can say that we have a corresponding programme. Unfortunately, my speaking time has already expired, but I can only assure one thing: We can only accept a tourism and economic policy if, in this case, the broken proposals of the opposition are also implemented. Under the conditions, we will not take note of the tourism and leisure report which is under discussion today, nor will we agree with it.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e9990	Mr Farnleitner has been reported to speak. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e10011	Mr President. High house! First of all, a few remarks on the report: We agreed, in a discussion with the club representatives, that we should no longer include long-term chains of numbers and number cemeteries in the report. As Members now criticize the fact that there is not enough, I would ask that this be taken into account. It was agreed that we would no longer bother you. [[Abg. Haigermoser: That's right!]] I would ask you to take note of this. Secondly, We have already agreed on the content of the next tourism report in the preliminary discussions. I can inform the House of this. We will again report on the trends in tourism, focusing on employment in tourism, integrated quality management and the impact of the euro. In this context, I would add: If we had not decided on the euro, the current world currency turbulences over the devaluations of parts of the euro area would have led to dramatic collapses in tourism, as we have always had to see in the Italian, Spanish and Portuguese devaluations in recent years. Another chapter: sustainable tourism – especially with regard to much of what is happening in environmental tourism today – and destination management in Austria. Another observation: Ladies and gentlemen! Our ambition should be that a country which is the world's world champion in sales per capita will also become a world tourist champion in the yield for entrepreneurs and employees. That should be the qualitative goal of the next period. On the third point, to the Conciliation Point. The referee, Mr Maier, continues to exist in my house. It's just called a "service station for tourism". Old players have retreated because certain employees were not made available to them. Every foreigner, any resident, especially any holiday-makers in Austria can get and get their right in our house at any time. We had 700 complaints and managed most peacefully. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e10047	Thank you very much, Minister of State. There is now no mention of this. That concludes the debate. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We are therefore immediately entering the voting procedure, and I ask the honourable Members to take their place each time. We shall first come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy to take note of this report III-140 of the supplements. In the event that you wish to agree to this, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the majority. The report has been taken note of. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Marolt and Mr Comrades on the abolition of the excise duty on beverages while at the same time compensating the loss of revenue for the municipalities. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Kostelka) Come on, Peter!]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka points the thumb down.]] – This is done by the minority. The request is therefore rejected. Finally, we come to a further motion for a resolution by Mr Marolt and Mr Comrades on improving the framework for tourism and tourism. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the minority. The request is therefore rejected. 2. Report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Federal Act amending the Supply Security Act 1992 (1454 of the Supplements) 3. Report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Federal Law amending the Food Management Act 1997 (1455 of Supplements) 4. Point report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy (1411): Federal Act amending the Energy Steering Act 1982 (1456 of the Supplements) 5. Point report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy (1410): Federal Act amending the Oil Supply and Reporting Act 1982 (1457 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e10137	High house! We now come to points 2 to 5 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are entering the debate. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Nut trees. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e10168	Mr President. Minister! High house! There is no doubt that economic governance laws are necessary in order to deal with exceptional cases of crisis. We don't challenge liberals. However, we argue that these laws, whose duration has been and will continue to remain unchanged, are still in line with today's requirements. I would like to briefly explain some criticisms: First: The laws are not effective in their feasibility, and not because the legal provisions can only be activated by the adoption of appropriate regulations. Of course, in the event of crisis, decision-making is of utmost importance. Moreover, this law does not correspond to the inclusion requirement – that is, the concentration of all rules on the division of national competence in the B-VG – as provided for in the state reform. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Bundesminister, you should be very interested in this point. Secondly, Access to resources from other countries facilitated by EU accession is not at all taken into account in these laws. On the contrary: If, for example, a wholesaler used for crisis prevention – which is particularly important in food security – sold his company to a foreign company and the corresponding large warehouse is transferred from Austria to neighbouring countries, access in the event of a crisis would not be possible or would be difficult. Third review: The costs of the Supply Security Act, the Food Management Act and the Energy Control Act continue to be reported with zero. This certainly does not correspond to the cost-truth, and since no cost-truth is possible, there will not be any considerations as to how efficient the implementation of these laws could actually be. Fourth: The laws lack the answer to clear questions of pay in the event of a corresponding crisis. A clear regulation therefore seems to me to be very important, because clear charging issues can lead to a much better security of supply. This is especially necessary in the Food Management Act, but also in the Energy Steering Act and in the Oil Supply Act. In particular, I do not understand that there is a legal basis for making the most of the multis, because I think they need to be used much more strongly for the stockpiling and for greater co-financing. Only then would it be possible to prevent price cuts. Fifthly, I criticise the fact that despite the commitment of the Minister of Economic Affairs, it is also represented by Mrs Tichy-Schreder in her speech on these laws. December 1996 – there was no discussion with the political groups on how these laws should be made in the future. I also asked in the Group: An invitation has not been received from us. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: But of course!]] Although I agree that this matter is, of course, not one of the priorities of your place of business, I must say that it is a matter of style to keep commitments and to carry out a fundamental revision of these laws in the direction of efficiency, effectiveness and, because of our EU membership, also in terms of involving cross-border possibilities accordingly. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e10216	Mrs Tichy-Schreder has also been mentioned. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e10238	Federal Minister! Mr President. High house! Mr Nußbaumer! We have discussed this in detail in committee, and I can only tell you that the Federal Minister has very well invited every group to discuss how we could make these laws different or perhaps better. The invitation was given to all the clubs, but, as the Federal Minister said, there was no club other than the ÖVP's answer that there was, of course, the possibility of coming at that time. However, there was no point in negotiating this legislative matter with the ÖVP alone, because the Federal Minister wanted to deal with all the political groups of this House. He wanted to discuss the guidelines together, as he regularly did, including in the previous tourism report. Even if everyone has his own political opinion, the guidelines should be discussed together. Perhaps it is possible to discuss it at another time. We are – and we have already stated this in committee – obliged, through international contracts, to maintain such precautionary laws. We are bound by Article 103a of the EC Treaty alone, but also by other international obligations, to provide for the crisis. It is also true that there are no costs, because the costs will come when a crisis occurs. It is precisely in this case in this case that, in the case of crisis cases - we already had those in Austria where these laws have been applied - all the federal states are of course also involved. Mr Nußbaumer, who is currently holding the position in your group alone, I can only say one thing to you: The Federal Minister has just said that during the negotiations with international food groups, he also stressed the need for the central camps to be preserved in Austria and not to be moved from Austria. That was one of the points of negotiation, Mr Nußbaumer. [[Abg. Ing. Nutbaumer: But it is not in the law!]] I would ask you to take note of what has been said to you in reply and to accept that it has been discussed and that the Federal Minister has given assurance that no camps will leave Austria. To this end, it must be said that thanks to God there is not only a large group in Austria but several and that it can ensure the supply throughout the world. The questions of pay are also determined, though in others and not in these laws. We could also have discussed this issue in the Committee - perhaps the Minister of State is still concerned - but you, Mr Nußbaumer, did not ask the Committee on the Rules of Procedure to do so. [[Abg. Ing. Nutbaumer: You would have had the opportunity!]] There is the possibility of continuing to discuss all of this, and perhaps we have the opportunity to discuss new guidelines together with all the political groups. [[Abg. Ing. Nut trees: Keep your promise!]] This time, these laws are not limited to two years, but to three years, so they are valid for one year longer, because in the next amendment, the amounts now mentioned in Schilling must be entered in euro. I hope that in the next three years we will find time to debate these supply and crisis laws more recently.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e10321	Mrs Ing. Langthaler. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e10343	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to add a little bit more to this debate in the near future. You are adopting laws on the case of crisis, security of supply laws, and I, Mr Minister, would like to introduce an aspect that concerns you directly because you are also energy ministers and this is also about the Energy Control Act. We must be aware again and again that an industry is particularly vulnerable to crisis when it has to import raw materials to a high extent. Energy is fossil fuels – and that we have a very different situation would just invest a small country like Austria in technologies that protect it from such a crisis. This means decentralized energy systems, energy systems of domestic renewable raw materials, biomass, wind energy promotion and photovoltaics. All of these are areas which, of course, have to do with this issue in so far as they would make Austria more independent of the import of fossil fuels, and that is precisely why a crisis case – which is actually in the foreground here – should ever be implemented by these laws, which we all hope not. Minister! You know exactly – and I would remind you once again as Minister of Energy – that a major climate conference has been held in Buenos Aires for two days, which will address these very issues: What will the future of energy policy look like? How do countries within the European Union cope with rising commodity prices on the one hand, but above all with scarcer resources? As a country, how to deal with the issue of emissions trading? How could it create a small country like Austria, which is also more self-evident, so more independent in this area and thus more crisis-resistant? These areas of decentralised energy supply are part of such a debate and are to have place in such a debate, in the sense that we all hope that there will never be a crisis, that these laws, which you will decide in the constitutional order and which you decide every two years, will never be applied. But you should simply remember that you should never wait for a crisis to come, but that it is also essential in economic policy to act preventively. Mr Minister, perhaps you take such a debate as an incentive, and try to finally make a sustainable energy policy in your role as Minister of Energy, but none that is always directed backwards and insists on old, rigid structures. [[Abg. Oberhaidinger: There is no one yet!]] Mr Oberhaidinger, we also see this as a keyword in the debate on the collective solution - 'gross/net method'. I always see only concepts that really fit into the '60s, '70s, Minister. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: Really not!]] Yes, it is as if the Federal Government or some ministers here are keen to face up to a global development. One can welcome them or criticize them, but in many areas they simply take place. If you do not recognize the opportunities for a small country, the opportunities that lie in a restructuring, and the opportunities that you could take through decentralised ecological structures, especially in the energy sector, Mr Minister, then, I believe, you may be a minister who may find broad support in such crisis laws and can also represent them here, but you are not a minister who can really look forward and develop sustainable alternatives together with this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e10391	Mr Oberhaidinger is also speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e10413	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am glad that all my previous speakers, unlike the morning debate, have found that the crisis laws we are dealing with are important. Since our last crisis is more fortunately and fortunately many, many years ago, I would like to see a crisis situation on the example Auckland, the capital of New Zealand, in an "Press" article of 28. ==References====External links== "For five weeks, the New Zealand capital Auckland has been without electricity. ... In the business district of Auckland have been ruling since 20. ==References====External links==* Official website In the middle of the Pacific high summer, the air conditioners failed, the traffic lights no longer worked, the lifts were stuck. ... In the law firm there is a high level of operation in order to deal with damages to the companies that have suffered irreparable damage in some cases." And on the other hand, in the section. "Caught in the high house": "Others, in turn, had to reach their apartments in the high-rises via the stairs, because despite the generators, the wheelchairs kept stuck again and again. Whole families claimed emergency accommodation in the city or bought tents. ... Hillary Ord, the owner of a coffee house, which is kept open with the help of a generator of 1,200 schilling a day, makes the government responsible for the disaster. They have failed to ensure that the necessary public economy – I emphasize: public service – "services are guaranteed." In conclusion, from this article: "But the real cause of the disaster is that the electricity company has reduced investment too long. The city's infrastructure has not been able to withstand the enormous economic growth of recent years." Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the laws which we are discussing here, and which we are extending their validity, can prevent such a situation from happening in Austria. I believe that the issue is very up-to-date in the situation we are now facing: We are also liberalizing the energy market, and it is not impossible for us to exclude the privatisation of electricity supply companies. We too can expect - we hear this in the daily discussions - that fewer and fewer participants in the energy market are willing to stand up for public services, which is now the security of supply, in which the reserve of energy stocks already mentioned many times plays a very important and essential role. Since our country is now a member of the EU, we could of course take the view that we have access to the European markets and access to European resources and therefore we cannot get into such a situation. Among other things, there is a lot to be said about that, in the European Union, almost half of what is consumed on primary energy must be imported. I would therefore not rely so much on the EU at the moment. And if we also bear in mind that in Switzerland it has already been decided to withdraw from the use of nuclear energy, that a similar decision is to be expected in Germany, and in Sweden we think quite specifically of how to do so, then we have to note that the supply situation will be much more precarious and the dependence on non-European countries will be even greater. That is why our own energy policy, including the role of renewables, Mrs Langthaler, has a very important role to play. I could already imagine re-examination of the crisis laws. However, I would argue that we should wait for the experience we will gain from the liberalised energy market in the next few years and then prepare ourselves, in good time for the year 2003, for new crisis laws. In this sense, the Members of my group are prepared to extend the upcoming laws, including the extension of the term of two to three years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e10475	Mr Haigermoser is also on the floor. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e10496	Federal Minister! High house! A few brief remarks. – Ms President of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy! On the so-called economic governance laws, "crisis laws", this package has called colleague Oberhaidinger: The promise to redefine these laws has ultimately also been heard before the previous decision-making - nothing has happened. It is actually being rewritten in terms of content except for the extension of the period from two to three years. This is a disadvantage, Mr Federal Minister – now he is really no longer present. Ladies and gentlemen! In our view, this moderate extension is negligent in terms of the euro situation, grossly negligent. [[Abg. Oberhaidinger: Why?]] You're saying, "Yes." In the field – I tell you that, colleague – food management law is in general explanations a contradiction, namely – in detail – to the question: "With a view to the changeover to the euro and the necessary legislative adjustments with 1. A three-year term is scheduled for January 2002 and is therefore planned." The introduction of the euro will take place on 1.1.1999. [[Abg. Oberhaidinger: This is the changeover!]] Of course! So the economic operator is always pretended, the changeover, "Big Bang" begins almost on 1st. January 1999, and that is now the year 2002. That is, there is a contradiction in the argument of Oberhaidinger and also the government. It is only then that you begin to focus the whole thing and put it on new legs. Therefore, if one does not act grossly negligently, one must reject these laws for these reasons. I have one aspect to add. I have already done this in committee, so I should like to mention this very briefly. The Food Act or the provision to this effect requires that wholesalers supply a certain quantity of basic food, according to their turnover. In the event of a supply, a regulation can be used. What happens in practice today? An example from my area, from my constituency Salzburg: EDKA now builds an additional, several thousand square meters store and supplies the shops in Salzburg of Trostberg, from Bavaria, from its central warehouse. This company does not have to take this precautions there and has no cost to bear, as is the case under Austrian law, but the Austrian companies are very likely to bear these costs. This means that there is a competitive disadvantage for Austrian wholesalers. They have to bear costs which, for example, Bavarian companies – Trostberg is equal to EDKA – do not have to bear. That is, the connected thinking, cross-sectional matter – as always called – has not been included in this new European dimension. That is why I believe that it would have been time for the Federal Minister to bind up the package in order not to make this competitive disadvantage effective for Austrian businesses. Therefore, I believe – which would be a reason enough to reject this package – it is understandable and factual that the freedom of opposition to this package of so-called management laws – Oberhaidinger calls it "crisis laws".
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e10545	Mr Magistrate has also been mentioned in the debate. Peter. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e10567	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Unlike the liberals, we will agree to these laws because we consider them necessary. Mr. Oberhaidinger abducted us to Auckland. They have no electricity there – terrible. I can imagine that is cruel. Only this has nothing to do with the privatisation of the e-Economy or nationalization, because I know that in Moscow or in other parts of this world the electricity is relatively often switched off. And there the e-business is really nationalized. This argument is too superficial. Total economic steering: It opposes liberals in principle because it is a plan economic approach. The reason for this is market failure – danger in delay. In this case, a strong state has intervened. I don't get tired of stressing ceterum censeo over and over again: A strong state can only be a slender state, which reduces itself to the respect of real tasks it has to take over. Security of supply and economic governance in times of market failure are included. However, a crisis will be renewed at the latest after the completion of the euro area. I believe that we should start very soon discussions and negotiations on how security of supply, such as economic governance in a common economic area, which I hope will soon become a political union. As a result, I ask the Minister for Economic Affairs to start a second start – even if a first start has not been made – so that discussions can be held on this matter. It is very important to intervene in fundamental rights, in human rights, in economic rights which we would like to agree if we are involved in the negotiations. We therefore agree to the extension by three years and hope for a soon discussion, Mr Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e10600	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e10621	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! So far we have been able to say that every two years again, now it will be three years until we will deal with a similar or equally stored matter again. These economic governance laws – today in prominent place on the agenda, as we know and as already discussed – are a matter of law for extraordinary crises. Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! Two years ago, you actually promised to make these no longer modern laws a change. Today we are dealing with this issue again, and you will decide to extend these provisions – a continuation without changes in content, an extension of the old, untimely supply laws. The situation we have in Europe is not reflected in this. These laws do not take into account today's requirements for stockpiling. Minister for Economic Affairs! They have said in the Committee that these laws have proved to be effective, they are meant to be governing laws. The test would have been – which we all do not want – given in the case of crisis. Mr Federal Minister, your conclusion is therefore inadmissible. There are basically two options: Either you are unwilling to participate in a positive change, or you are overwhelmed. Both are unacceptable from the point of view of the opposition. As we have said, we do not wish for a crisis to occur. It is true that access to European markets and to European resources would necessarily require these changes. Mr Haigermoser has argued that the economic disadvantages that exist will not be supported by the distortion of competition, which will occur in particular due to food supplies. We will not take these decisions on the part of the liberals.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e10658	Mr Marizzi is also speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e10679	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The Socialists are in favour of extending these economic laws. We believe that these are good laws. You've proved yourself. They have proven themselves in the event of energy crises, and they have proved themselves in the Chernobyl crisis. This means that they will be in force by the year 2001. Mrs Tichy-Schreder has already explained that this is also related to the coming euro zone. I therefore believe that these laws, Mr Nutbaumer, are good laws. Mr Peter's statements also contained essential aspects. The fact that, with the deepening of the European Union, there must be common supply laws and security of supply in the long term is, I believe, obvious and obvious. However, if we are talking about the extension of these energy laws, which are also part of this matter, then it is probably also necessary to talk about the electrical supply of Austria, very valued Mr Bundesminister. Mrs Langthaler has put in place a number of essential aspects. I would like to comment on this. Many have been wrong, by the way, I also: In fact, there is no Austrian nuclear policy. Switzerland is now getting out. In the Federal Republic of Germany, it is probably faster than expected. We will have a whole new situation in the energy industry. I therefore believe that we in Austria should first be very proud of hydropower, secondly that all new forms of energy, such as wind energy, biomass and all the other soft energies, which are good energy forms, should continue to be forced. Federal Minister! Another essential point in the "theater" that is now being listed. Ladies and gentlemen! If one reads the newspapers of the last two or three days, it must be noted that the Austrian e-E-Economie plays only the Piccoloflöte in the concert of Europe. The Director-General of the E-Economics acts as if they belonged to Europe. As an example, I would like to mention the link. In the issue of the "Standard" of Tuesday you can find the headline "Verband speckt even stronger ab". After that 500 or 700 people will be released. Ladies and gentlemen! The Minister is beaten, the politicians are beaten, while the Director-Generals have very good contracts and long-term pension schemes. Minister! Why do we need four executive directors while at the same time reducing the employment status? One should also think about it. These people don't think long-term, they think in the short term. When you talk to them about gentle energies, they smile at you, as if you were "E.T." would come down from somewhere. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is important for the Director-General to have their contracts. Whether red, black or blue – of the liberals there are also some – these people are only important to their contracts. They don't care about the fate of the employees. Finally, the "very valued" Director-Generals are playing a "power war" again. EVN against compounding is more angry than Simmering versus Kapfenberg. Just forget that the world is changing outside. My very dear Minister! I think you should just flash in there, so that a power-lassing doesn't come about! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e10731	Mr Farnleitner has been reported to speak. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e10753	Mr President. High house! On some fundamental questions raised. We recently had a debate in the European Energy Council – and we will repeat this discussion next week – on a rewording of the Oilstocks Directive, the Oil Stocks Directive. It was quite clear that consensus cannot be reached because some countries in the EU are not yet ready to share a risk of crisis with other countries, for example, England or the Netherlands undertake to promote 20 percent more oil in order to maintain supply in the event of a crisis. – As long as such a position is taken by Member States, it would be negligent to sacrifice the current Austrian crisis management on the altar of the internal market. – The first. Second point: We are currently talking about the completion of the internal market and we are on the European average about 95 percent of the completion of the internal market. The real completion of the internal market in such a way that emergency services can also be a task for the internal market can only take place if the last sensitive things are resolved. Especially in the field of energy, we see how difficult the last fine-tuning is here. One last point that is important: It is precisely because the present situation is that way – as I have once said to Mrs Langthaler in complete agreement – that we must take account of the time horizon and, for example, use Austrian opportunities in the field of bioenergy and biomass, so that we can then integrate ourselves into a European network of supply. On the other hand, my appeal remains the same – and the House will have to deal very quickly with two energy sector regulations in the main committee, which must prove that the members of the House are also putting pressure on the energy structures – that more Austrian than small regions are thought! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e10789	Thank you very much, Minister of State. No one is reporting on this. That concludes the debate. There is no final word on the part of the rapporteur. We are therefore entering the voting procedure, and I ask the honourable Members to take the places. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we shall vote on the draft federal law amending the supply security law in 1992, together with the title and receipt in 1391 of the supplements. Since this draft law contains a constitutional provision, according to § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to agree to the draft law to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. The request was accepted. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. We shall therefore come to the third reading immediately. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to give their approval to the draft law at third reading too, to give an appropriate sign. – This is also done by the majority. I found that this draft law was also adopted at third reading, with the necessary two-thirds majority. We shall also vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1385 of the Supplements. Since this draft, namely concerning a federal law amending the Food Management Act in 1997, also contains a constitutional provision, I am adopting the constitutionally necessary attendance quo. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to give the draft law the right to vote and go to their places to give a sign of this need. . I note that this draft has been accepted by the majority. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. We shall therefore come to the third reading immediately. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to give the third reading of this draft law an appropriate sign. – This is the majority of the case. In turn, I expressly define the two-thirds majority required for constitutional purposes. We shall also vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1411 of the Supplements. Since this draft concerning a federal law amending the Energy Steering Act 1982 also contains a constitutional provision, I shall adopt the presence quo provided for by the Constitution in accordance with the rules of business. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to give the draft law an appropriate sign. – This happens, as I expressly see, with the required two-thirds majority. The draft is therefore adopted. We shall therefore come to the third reading immediately. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to give the draft at third reading a sign on this point. – This is also done by a majority, with the two-thirds majority provided for by the Constitution. The draft is accepted. Finally, we shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1410 of the supplements. Since this draft concerning a federal law amending the oil supply and reporting law in 1982 also contains a constitutional provision, I am adopting the constitutional presence quo. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to give the draft an appropriate sign. – This is done with the two-thirds majority provided for by the Constitution. The draft was therefore adopted at second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to give the draft at third reading an appropriate sign. – This is also the case with the two-thirds majority provided for by the Constitution. The draft was therefore adopted at third reading. That concludes the voting procedure. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Request for urgent procedure of the Deputies Volker Kier, Helmut Peter and Partners to the Federal Minister for Labour, Health and Social Affairs on the Government Push at Schwarzbeit (5090/J)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e10941	I am now interrupting the negotiations on the agenda, and we are entering into urgent debate on written question 5090/J, as the Federal Minister is also present. As the question has now been answered and distributed to all Members, the reading of it by a writer is not sufficient. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e11098	As the first questioner, Mr Dr Kier is given the floor. His speaking time is limited by 20 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e11119	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The Liberal Group has considered today's urgent question to the Federal Minister for Labour, Health and Social Affairs. I do not now take a look back at today's objection debate. We were and believe that the issue of undeclared work is a problem of growing urgency. The situation, findings and trends show that this rather unsavory phenomenon is becoming more and more widespread, which is, as it were, a growing area. From the point of view of a responsible policy, it is in no way acceptable if such manifestations spread in the way they actually are. In this context alone, we see a serious urgency, and there would probably not be any relevant efforts by the Federal Minister to make improvements in this area if she did not consider the matter important and urgent. The urgency of our request is also based on the fact that we know that there is a project by the Federal Government, which is, as it were, in the pipeline and will soon be reached by the Federal Government and subsequently by this House. And we have learned in the past that it is very useful, valuable and important when problems and upcoming legislative instruments are discussed and discussed in good time in public and parliamentary terms, so that we can save ourselves what we have occasionally experienced in this House, namely that sham solutions are put on the table, which were not properly or at best discussed behind closed doors, and then these sham solutions result in a law that can only be described as puss. We speak from experience here. I should like to remind you, for example, that the work contract regulation was a legislative matter which bore all the features of a Push's Law. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Only the countless repairs that were necessary have proved that. Even when the emergency aid law was reformed, I would like to put it down – probably even consciously, for the first time, one has forgotten the question of the pensioners and has then repaired. This law, which also contained illegalities of the Constitution, was also a law of Pentecost. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: I explained this to you in committee, Mr Kier!]] Mr Feurstein! You will probably take the floor in this debate, so I invite you to really explain that! We want to achieve, through a timely, open and bold discussion on the problem of black work, that in the end there is no one-dimensional solution that does not combat the real causes. We would like to avoid the possibility that behind the closed door "Hinsichtl" and "Recksichtl" we will be able to win back, and then an unjust discussion will take place, in which – as I would like to stress again – there will be a clear solution, which unfortunately will not solve the problem, but will only be pre-accelerated to the people, that this or that law, in this case the Black Labour Act, has been made and that the problem will therefore be solved, while the matter actually looks quite different. What are the weaknesses of the recognizable project, Mrs Bundesminister? – Our request is intensively concerned with discovering this one-dimensionality in time. In our view, the main weakness of your project is that you, Mrs Federal Minister, had to do the law more or less on your own. I wonder why did you have to do it alone? Does your colleague, Mr Edlinger, have no desire to participate, or does he not consider it necessary? Why did the Chancellor not support you in including the members of the government in such a project, which is also concerned but which is different from yours, Mrs Federal Minister? But if not even Your colleague, Edlinger, from the same group – and this is clearly apparent from the previous draft – is more than worrying! If your colleague, Federal Minister Farnleitner, does not promise the whole thing, then perhaps it is because the coalition climate is not good, that he is concerned at the moment and does not want to deal with the blackwork, or that he does not want to touch anywhere in the federal states, or whatever the case may be. Mrs. Federal Minister! I remember that you said at the time when the criticism of the working contract regulations had become particularly loud: This is a wide country that has to be entered first. – It may be more often true that when you do something new or treat something that has not yet been the case, you enter new land, so to speak. But that does not mean entering a new country without a map. Rather, you should all be involved in the prospect of the country before you enter it, and you should look at where the heights and depths are, what the real causes are and what problems can be expected. Finally, there seems to have been no overall analysis in your home – perhaps you teach us a better one – and with this threatening law on undeclared work there is no set of measures on us, but a one-dimensional deterrent law. They apparently believe that you can fix causes by raising the threats of punishment. I don't want to be misunderstood now. I am of the opinion that black work is an evil and socially harmful offence, I would like to point this out quite clearly. Furthermore, undeclared work also distorts competition and distorts the market. In addition, all who are involved in black work are unolidarian. It is known that no joint contribution is made in this respect, but it is only the black-and-collar leader who is responsible, whoever it is, whether it is a client or a contractor. I want everything to come to the table. There is a client for every black job, and every black job is done by someone. Both must be considered together. The only way out, however, cannot be to intensify the threats of punishment. It is not the only means of deterrence that no one cares about the causes! The deterrence to police-state sekkierery, to unconstitutional regulations, to park data protection in the wardrobe, to present denunciantism as an exemplary achievement, domestic law, an inviolable fundamental right to break any time, confiscations and operating barriers without the participation of independent courts, not even in retrospect: In our view, these are signs of political helplessness! Because if you don't know how to help yourself any more than just to pick it up, that's not enough, and it's also worrying, because the causes are much deeper. Let us consider whether one of the causes of undeclared work is the fact that some who want to practice a business simply cannot do so because it fails to comply with the regulations, although it is well-qualified but does not comply with certain rules. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: Nobody fails to do that!]] You may believe that, during my practice at the time, I have learned enough cases in a law firm, in which people have not performed black work for tax or tax reasons, or have possibly used black workers, but have done black work because they lacked commercial rights. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: Maybe at his time!]] And once the first step has been taken into illegality, which lacks admission to trade, then the second step in the illegality is that you are running the whole business outside of the laws, perhaps much easier than it would otherwise be. Have you overlooked that one of the causes of undeclared work is that innocuous taxes and taxes lie on wages and salaries, that the additional wage costs are exorbitant, so that, in case of doubt, some consider the avoidance of black work as the legitimate act of the emergency defense and as a cavalier crime, and some may also run into a apparent fork, believing that this is their only way out? Have you ever calculated how many hours a serious worker needs to cut hair on a hairdresser so that he can pay another of his net wages that cuts his hair for 20 minutes? I bring this example because you can't cut your hair. A tiled alloy, which privately suffocates at home, can provide this service for itself, but a hairdresser cannot provide this service in himself, and he must use two full hours of net wages in order to be able to pay 20 minutes of haircuts. And of course he must pay this service, which the hairdresser has to calculate, at the full cost. Think about it: This applies to the whole range of services that cannot be provided for themselves! The example with the hairdresser may still be funny, but in case of the need for care, the joke probably stops with you. You can't take care of yourself, don't dry yourself, don't lift yourself from the bed into a chair. If you want to pay for all of this, you have to have a net income which is, in the end, three times as much as you would normally need it, because otherwise you cannot afford these services because of the exorbitant additional wage costs that it entails. I know, of course, that it is not possible to change and improve overnight: But one could lead to trends, one might consider how to turn this curve in a different direction instead of constantly increasing the additional wage costs and possibly financing the Black Labour Act with the increased additional wage costs. That would then even be the square of the circle in the sense of a false policy! Is the phenomenon unknown to you, or do you never discuss it, that these days, especially in the construction industry, the smaller companies are buying together with a twinkling of eyes, or do they know that their employees are running by the weekend? This is already taken into account in the context of the references: If a person deserves relatively little, he will be told: Don't worry that you deserve relatively little in the normal working week! You're going to fuck yourself on the weekend and you may even use my mixing machine, sometimes without asking me and sometimes by asking me before and making me a co-founder! The same applies to excessive neighbourhood aid. Faith You do not ask that I do not consider neighborhood aid to be of value in the sense of a self-organizing society! But we must be very careful not to make this a Euphemist excuse. Neighborhood aid is a growing thing, it may be possible in a small context, but it has to be clearly defined, because neighborhood aid ceases when the arrival time of the "neighbor", which helps, may be longer than its presence at the place where it provides the "neighbourhood aid". It is therefore necessary to consider whether one is simply blinding away from the beginning the whole field of neighborhood aid, not only because of the fearlessness of being, according to the motto: There might be annoyed by your own voters! – Such delicate questions need to be discussed with openness and attention. In the case of neighborhood aid, it will be very important to find a proper level of attention, and it will certainly have to be done much more restrictively than it is now. A key to solving the problem that we Liberals have been proposing for a long time would be to consider, as neighborhood aid often takes place in house building, whether one could not be oriented to the Luxembourg model. You should consider whether people who build houses should go shopping at home markets and eventually get the material for the subsequent blackwork, not grant the pre-tax deduction for the building material if they build their own homes. In return, they would have to commit themselves to legalizing the people they employ on the construction site and to ensuring that the people they employ on their construction sites are properly paid, including taxes and charges imposed on them. If this is not enough as a real equivalent for the extra costs – because I am relatively sure that the additional costs of paying off a house and the people who are legally paid there are higher than the advantage from the pre-tax deduction – then it would all be better to consider whether the means of housing support in the area of house builders could not be dealt with differently in order to provide incentives to avoid undeclared work. Today, constructions are still being collapsed and reduced, of which everyone in the area knows that 98 percent have finally come about by blackwork. However, the mayor collapses with joy, and the state government is paying for a housing support for it. [[Abg. Ellwall: Blackwork cannot be colluded!]] That's really paradoxical. Mr President, I should like to thank You may also take the floor. You have to make a proper definition of neighborhood aid! I am not opposed if someone helps his neighbor free of charge, that this will help him to do so in return. I cannot imagine, however, that all the construction services provided in this area would be possible if they were exclusively free of charge. I think that's a naïve, non-realist assumption. This is excessive overcoming a good old habit in the wrong direction. Mrs. Federal Minister! If it is not possible to consider all the causes of any black labour law, if it is not possible to involve the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Economic Affairs and anyone else who should otherwise be affected, if it is not possible to do so on the root side, then the trickle of punishment alone will not benefit you! Where I don't want to be misunderstood: Of course, we also need clear and clear criminal delimitations in this field. You need that, of course! But as the only means, Mrs Bundesminister, that is simply not enough! There seems to be the idea that if the penalty is only high enough, the problem will also disappear. That would be like someone saying: If the fever is only strong enough, the disease will disappear. - That's a mistake! Punishment is at best symptomic and never cause fight. So great can the dissuasive effect of punishment and so high can not be the measure of punishment that there is still no partial obligation to circumvent the law because otherwise certain things cannot be done at all. This is a legally imposed emergency defense, although the word "notwehr" is almost too bad for me in this context. So this method will not help. They will be caught individually, but you will clearly overestimate the general preventive effect of this scheme. Unless you actually cross the whole country with a complete network of informants and tickles. But that can't be the idea! And with the staff they have to offer for it – and that's the calming thing about it – you can't make a complete network anyway, because you want to use the remaining customs officials for it primarily. It's a bit strange, too. But perhaps this is also the reason why the Minister of Finance remains under cover. He may be glad that he relieves his personnel statistics when a few migrate from his place to this field, and there he may be willing to keep silent in view of his own numbers of personnel, instead of considering whether tax law could also generally serve to get some area out of the field of black work. Because with a comprehensive tax reform, where certain income sizes would be reduced to tax-free, my colleague Helmut Peter will also take the floor, and if you have the need, he will also address it – all areas of black work would be legalized by the fact that it would no longer be necessary to do black work in this area. If you could decide to make the annual income the basis of taxation, then what is now being passed by the Fiscus would probably not have to pass by the Fiscus because this would no longer have a significant effect in the total of the year. And then the deterrent effect of penalties would be much more effective. If, on the one hand, the benefit you have, if you act illegally, and on the other, the threat of punishment is appropriate, then this is the better way to bring someone back on the right path than to bring him there exclusively through the punishment, as in your law, exclusively on the back of the economy and its employees. The latter is also very important in this context. For the black workers stand in the Undoubtedly outside or are parked by you in an extremely far-reaching concept of neighborhood aid. And with that, you have not solved the problem, but at best provided an incentive for inventiveness to rise in the field of Push. I mean, Mrs Federal Minister, it would not be useful to give just an incentive for more creativity in circumventing laws as the only solution in the field of blackwork. It would be more than a pity if such an effect arose, and we hope that today's debate, which is, however, only with modest interest from a wide range of areas of this House, may be a contribution to the fact that this time our fear of re-establishing a post-Government – in this case in the case of undeclared work – is not true. That would be our wish! However, if there is no consequence from the public debate, we will on every appropriate occasion remind you that we have said in good time that this must be discussed openly and all the causes must be taken into account that the problem must not be considered one-dimensionally and not only be tried by means of penalties, but rather constructively and with the involvement of all the co-responsible members of the government. This problem must not only be carried out on the back of companies with the help of the Ministry of Social Affairs. They always artificially build an enmity between the Ministry of Social Affairs and companies rather than seek partnerships. However, if you are focusing on the social partners, I fear that they will fail you. Because these will depend on their particular interests and will not focus on achieving an overall view. Otherwise, there would not be the puddle debate in the form it is now running, but it would have been a different way for a long time. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e11201	In response to the urgent question, Mrs Federal Minister Hostasch has reported. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e11222	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would ask you to really believe, if I say now, that I am grateful to the questioners of the Liberal Forum for this urgent matter. This gives me, on the one hand, the opportunity to explain a number of things, which perhaps was only partially transported in the public debate so far. On the other hand, I have the opportunity to draw up your arguments precisely in a phase in which my department has tried to prepare, after long preparatory work, a government template for this new law on undeclared work. I am also glad that we are able to hold this debate today because I am sure that the House will give the support needed in a rule of law when it comes to supporting legal, correct work relations and employment relations and combating illegality. I am therefore convinced that the political objective of combating undeclared work is a common objective of the Federal Government and also of the House. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! I think that you agree with our thinking that illegal employment and organized undeclared work lead to a reduction in the funding base for the public tasks, including lower social security contributions and lower tax revenue. As Mr Kier has already said, there are competitive disadvantages for businesses and businesses that are working properly and complying with the laws. However, it also leads to the lack of proper pay and working conditions. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I believe that we are all responsible for the fact that there is no interference between the people's confidence in the rule of law and administration. I therefore believe that it is really necessary to work together to find a new legal approach to combating this trend. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The applicants believe that the social and economic policies are at the limits of both financial and feasibility. However, since they mention only the gratifying increase in wealth and income in Austria, but do not mention data or clues that would point to the opposite direction, I assume that it is – let me say this under quotation – an "empty presumption". Ladies and gentlemen of the Liberal Forum! You write in your urgent inquiry: "It is beyond dispute that a fairer burden distribution in the financing of state tasks... not only results in economic and employment-political positive effects, but ultimately also in sustainable social cohesion in society." I would like to stress this clearly and say to you: I am really pleased that this common view is given. However, you will write in the following episode: "Experts agree that the high taxes and taxes on work and the lack of tax morale at least in part is the main reason for avoiding production and services in the grey sector." Dear ladies and gentlemen! I believe that taxes and taxes are undisputed a burden on taxpayers. This burden may be higher or lower, so is the provision of public services – whether in the case of social security, the services for schools, for hospitals or the infrastructure in the transport sector. However, contrary to the obvious illusion – forgive me if I use this term – I do not believe the applicant is that, through general tax or tax reductions, the basic willingness to pay taxes and taxes properly actually increases. Such attempts in the United States are abuses, and the current levels of undeclared work would cause significant loss of revenue, while the additional incentives to correct tax payments would be so low that the effects suspected by the applicants would not even be measured. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I think we can rightly say: This Federal Government is not available for attacks on the social and service states. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Kier, ladies and gentlemen! You write in your request and mentioned this earlier in your debate contribution: "Moreover, the present draft "Black Labour Act" once again demonstrates the inability of the government to work interministerially and networked: In any event, a balanced package of measures would have required the cooperation of the Ministry of Social, Economic and Financial Affairs." . Allow me to inform you that there has been cooperation far beyond this circle and still exists in the preparation of this bill. Since the beginning of this year, the Social Ministry, the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the Ministry of Justice, the Federal Chancellery, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Finance, the social partners and the Federal Government liaison body have worked together to develop this draft. I believe that more representative cooperation, more interministerial and stronger cooperation than in this case, can only be demonstrated in a few other examples. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I say with regret: Although I am trying to do a very extensive information work through my department, including the House and the clubs, this information does not seem to have landed very precisely with the ladies and gentlemen of the Liberal Forum. I really regret this because I know that in many other cases the information actually lands where they should. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: In the design is no trace of it!]] Mr Kier, honourable Member! In a draft government in preparation, when a law goes into the review, it is mentioned in the rarest cases who has all been involved in the preparation. But it is a discussion that has been open to the public for many months, and it is understandable that we do not negotiate behind closed doors in the silent chamber. We did not have the entire competence in our House either, because it was really overly addressed the competence of many other posts. Dear ladies and gentlemen! However, allow me to take advantage of this subject in so far as I would like to give a few information on the development of the control activity of the labour inspection, because it is not well known. Labour inspectorate took over the control of illegal foreign employment from the labour market service in 1995. Since then, some 40 outside staff have been controlling 11 000 to 14 000 businesses and construction sites each year. In more than 2,000 cases, foreigners were found to be illegally employed. The criminal proceedings against the employers of foreign workers, initiated by the labour inspectorates alone, amounted to well over 60 million schilling. Overall, 50.5 million schilling of fines were taken up by the labour market service or labour inspection for illegal foreign employment in 1997. As a result of the entry into force of the Anti-Fraud Act from January 1996, control activities were facilitated and criminal rates increased, but a significant reduction in illegal foreign employment could not be achieved. We have increased the staffing capacity in the labour inspection somewhat, but only random checks could be carried out. Especially during the examinations on weekends, we encounter the absolute limits with the resources; we cannot carry out this task sufficiently, not satisfactoryly. I therefore believe that this development alone shows that it is important to improve this form of control and also the management of a proper labour market on a wider basis and to come to a new overall legal basis. The creation of the internal market and appropriate organisational measures now provide particularly suitable staff resources for the Federal Government's project in the field of customs administration, in the field of civil customs. At the same time, taking over the activity by customs means that, for the extension of the control measures, the necessary personnel capacity is also available and controls to a greater extent – and I would like to stress this – can also be carried out on weekends and in the evening hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Allow me also to point out that from my point of view this draft law contains proposals which represent clear administrative simplifications; I know that it is also your concern to achieve administrative simplifications where it goes. For example, it is envisaged that the main customs offices take over criminal proceedings at first instance and that there are organ mandates for minor infringements so that the procedure of proceedings is not necessary if minor infringements occur. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to take the opportunity to refer to the Luxembourg model mentioned by Mr Kier, which I naturally looked at. In the knowledge of the problem of the whole situation, this would be a model that we could also apply and implement in Austria. However, we need to know that there is no housing promotion in Luxembourg, not least a housing promotion of our dimension and kind. I should like to remind you that some 29 billion Schillings are being made available to the population in Austria. In Luxembourg, it has been decided to make part-time VAT allowances when invoices are presented, but not generally for everything, but for private, which is certainly very logical and understandable, this applies to the material and services listed for 25 tax purposes. There is a 10-year observation period, so there must be no change in ownership within these ten years, and there is also a clear cover of the volume, how much reparation is possible. This is 20 percent of a maximum of 510 000 S, i.e. 60 000 S. If these measures are opposed to what we contribute to housing promotion in Austria for private individuals, for families, then we can see that this is disproportionately more. We asked the Ministry of Finance to calculate what it would mean to have such a Luxembourg model. It would be a net tax loss of 6 billion schilling, so for those affected a profit of 6 billion schilling. On the other hand, there are 29 billion Schilling housing. So I think that we have a much fairer, more comprehensive but also better form of support not only to those concerned, but also to businesses, companies, industries affected and addressed. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to reply briefly to the questions. I don't think I need to repeat it because you have the urgent request anyway. Question 1: An independent study of my department on the scale of the shadow economy has not been prepared. The estimates of the scale of the shadow economy in Austria are based on the calculation method used in 1997 between 94 billion schilling – as ÖSTAT calculated – and 233 billion schilling, as Professor Schneider of Linz calculated. On the basis of the ÖSTAT calculations, the Federal Ministry of Finance assumes 4 percent of the gross domestic product. This is also the indicative value that we have in mind from the point of view of the resort. They ask in question 2 the calculation methodology. In principle, the calculation of the ÖSTAT is based on an approach developed by Derek Blades in 1982, which distinguishes between the shadow economic activities of the companies – these are called "off record activities" or "under reporting" – and those of private individuals – where the term "moonlighting" is used. The University of Linz uses the so-called cash approach, which was also mentioned by you, and it is based on the idea that the services provided in the shadow economy will be paid off cash and that with the help of a cash demand function it will succeed in appreciating these cash-paid benefits. The data to be reported to EUROSTAT on the national accounts already cover the "non-recognition transactions" reported by the ÖSTAT with 1.3 percent of the gross domestic product. The work of the ÖSTAT on the recording of undeclared work is based on the guidelines for the collection of gross social product at market prices. In addition, the ratio of the "non-recognition business" to the buffer on the part of the ÖSTAT is estimated at about 1.2 percent. Question 3: No, no, no, Question 4: First of all, it must be noted that the methods of calculating undeclared work and the resulting results are not undisputed in specialist circles. Although the estimates on the size of the shadow economy differ depending on the method used, certain groups can nevertheless be seen. On the one hand, there is a group of countries where the estimated share of the shadow economy in gross domestic product is 5%. This group includes the Scandinavian countries, Ireland, Austria and the Netherlands. On the other hand, there is a group of Italy and Greece where the corresponding estimate is more than 20 percent. Between these two extremes – 5 and 20 percent – the other countries, such as the United Kingdom, Germany and France, are located in the middle of Belgium and Spain. In this context, however, I would like to say something very clearly from my point of view: The level of social security and taxation is by no means the driving force for undeclared work. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Studies in international comparison show a similar level of shadow economy in countries with a low level of social security, such as in the United States. I think that this fact should be emphasized and kept in mind. Question 5: Dear ladies and gentlemen! The draft law on the fight against illegal employment and the revision of other laws, which I have sent out, contains a wealth of measures based on experience in combating illegal employment. These measures are intended to achieve effective control, not least through a large-scale concentration of control by an authority. There are only a few new cases of crime, such as serious cases of organized illegal employment. The draft does not intend to criminalise those affected by undeclared work. Rather, those who comply with the laws should be able to rely on the state to guarantee compliance with the laws and the black sheep to be held accountable. On question 6: I understand, under the help of the neighborhood, an activity that benefits a friend, a friend or a neighbor, and is usually carried out on a mutual basis without any remuneration. [[Abg. Gaugg: Mrs Minister! Don't!]] The border will then be exceeded if the person offering their services in the context of the neighbourhood assistance achieves a regular or more extensive income and thus withdraws market shares from the regular market, which provides taxes and social security charges, and, in the absence of delivery of public taxes, uses unfair competitive advantages to the officially offering companies. [[Abg. Gaugg: Why do you criminalise the house builders in Austria?]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! This form of interpretation is the one that is also in review, and I also expect the positioning of the individual bodies in the review. Question 7: The review of production and services based on non-recognition operations does not suggest a significant impact on employment. Whether the reduction in undeclared work will have a significant impact on employment or will lead to an increase in overtime for already employed workers is relatively difficult to estimate. In practice, however, it is always evident that the reduction of undeclared work has positive effects on employment. A scientific assessment has not yet been carried out by my department. I also do not know about other scientific studies in this regard. Dear ladies and gentlemen! However, one thing is unquestionably clear: By extending legal employment, more resources are available for employment policy and active labour market policies. Question 8: It is the primary task of the State to ensure compliance with the laws. The protection of life and health must be of commercial interest. I assume that the adoption of an appropriate law is sufficient to ensure that these essential regulations are complied with. On the basis of the complexity of the subject, I expect further proposals that can still significantly influence the proposed measures and their effects. On the question 9: In the service sector in particular, large employment potentials are expected in the future. But there, too, labour and social standards must apply. I would like to maintain that with all the clarity. An essential element of the forthcoming tax reform is the relief of the labour factor, so that the competitiveness of the Austrian economy is further strengthened. It is precisely the punishment of black work that is equal to the resulting distortive effect of black work. That is why I believe that the strengthening of criminal provisions is an important element in the production of fair conditions. Questions 10 to 12: The draft law sent for review was drawn up on the basis of a mandate of the Council of Ministers on 4 June. November 1997 as part of a working group in which all the parties involved – I have already mentioned it – were represented by the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Justice, the Federal Chancellery and my department, as well as the social partners and the liaison body of the federal states. A number of meetings drew up a package of measures and a proposal for further action. This was then jointly presented by the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and by me as a report to the Council of Ministers and approved by the Council of Ministers in spring. At the same time, my department was assigned to prepare a bill. The above institutions and organisations were also involved in the preparation of the draft. In a highly committed and particularly in a very competent cooperation with the Federal Ministry of Finance, this draft was voted on to the last detail and sent in this form for review. On the question 13: This legislative proposal focuses on the spectrum of illegal employment. However, the tax reform should also implement the relief of the labour factor. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I do not consider the demand for the availability of private services to be a target. These tax subsidies would be income-dependent and therefore should not be justified in terms of distribution policy. A payer with a monthly income of less than 11 500 S would not at all benefit from your proposals, and income groups, which then belong to the lower, could not benefit in any way. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Question 14: On your last question, ladies and gentlemen, From my point of view, this is not a question of either-or, but of both-as-auch. Attracting the legal labour market is not contrary to measures to combat illegal employment. An extensive package of measures, both in one and the other direction and in the other, should ensure that work is carried out under prescribed conditions. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to give four examples from the practice on which I really want to prove that there is a need for action. A short time ago, a check was carried out at a construction site in Vienna, where it was found that 25 undeclared foreign workers were not registered by the 30 employees present without an employment permit. These workers were mostly in Austria without a residence permit. They lived under catastrophic hygienic conditions in part on the construction site, partly in basements and got 200 S a day for their work. Of course, none of the workers' protection provisions have been complied with. I mean, that's to stop. Or: Recently, I received a letter from an Iranian citizen who spent years in prison in his home country and then received asylum in Austria. In mid-September, he was obliged by a businessman for a housing improvement as a construction worker, and he was promised a proper application. After four weeks of work, he was accused of having damaged tiles. The promised wage was retained and it turned out that no registration for social security had been made. I think this case too speaks for itself. There are – I have also been told – some bus companies that use unregistered drivers for day trips in order to be able to compromise with the prices of serious bus companies. These drivers are often already insured by other employment conditions or pensions and therefore do not attach particular importance to being logged in. Such practices are damaging serious companies, and the safety of passengers is at risk because these unannounced drivers do not comply with working hours or safety regulations, but they are not least at risk of jobs. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, another example of practice: A so-called businessman travels from construction site to construction site and offers the construction manager or polishing black workers. If the offer is accepted, the polisher pays a sum to the so-called intermediary, and if a check is carried out, it is stated that the illegally employed person – mostly foreigners – is employed in a sub-contractor for which the general contractor has no responsibility. And the employee only knows that he gets money from someone once a week. This amount of money certainly does not correspond to what it would be entitled to from the collective contract. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I have only briefly reported from the fullness of the cases that occur to our place of business in this context and which become known to us. I believe that this underlines my request to you to stand by me in the implementation of this law.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e11320	I thank the Federal Minister for her reply. We are now entering the debate. The speaking time is limited by 10 minutes each, the group speaking time at 25 minutes. The first speaker is Mr Magistrate. Helmut Peter. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e11350	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Something must have happened in our society. About 25 years ago, the proportion of undeclared work in our society was quite, very small. In 1995 it was already up to 8 per cent, and for 1998 it is assumed that it is 9 per cent when it comes to taking the cash method that I think is the only serious one, because only with it can one really see what is done by the laws in that country. Mrs. Federal Minister, what happened? – Since 1970, the Social Democrats have been in the government. If their teaching policy fails, has their education policy failed, have they ruined public morality? What could be the fault of it? [[Intrusion of the Abg. You son of a bitch.]] You told us one thing, Mrs. Federal Minister: It cannot be labour costs. You have clearly explained this to us. It cannot be the level of the tax and social rate, the additional wage costs. Then it must be another effect of your policy. Or have the Austrians simply become more and more dishonest due to the age of the Second Republic? Is it a trend when a republic gets older that people become dishonester? Your answers to Mr Kier's urgent question, as I think very serious, were actually taken a little bit, so as not to have to express it otherwise. They actually explain to us that all of this has nothing to do with each other. I'll read the numbers to you now. They won't believe it anyway, it's pointless anyway. But I'll do it anyway. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Dr Gredler.]] In May 1996, 55 percent of Austrians surveyed – source: Schneider 1998, survey results of the Market Institute – said that doing work in the Pfusch is actually a cavalier crime. In June 1998, two years later, that said already 64 percent. There's nothing your federal government can do about it, it's "just like that," that's terrible! The people in Austria are not worthy of this government. That's crazy! When assessing the speed of the motorway, the figures remained surprisingly the same. The Federal Government has obviously acted correctly. Even working black and buffing – 36 percent said in May 1996, 41 percent of the respondents in June 1998 said that this was a cavalier offense. Mrs. Federal Minister! Your inconsistency, maybe to have done something wrong, bothers me. Do you have any insight in this direction, or are you sure you're right? – I am afraid you think you are right, and that is the terrible thing about it. Do you know where you were successful? – The fact that, at once, only 17 percent – rather than 18 percent earlier – say that people are pretending and bluing a disease is a cavalier offence. Or another compliment to the Federal Government: Only 4 percent – before 9 percent – of people say that driving drunk cars is a cavalier crime. – You have obviously achieved success with your policy here. But with regard to undeclared work, you have not achieved any success; quite the contrary: You have caused the blackwork with the sum of laws and standards you pass. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dietachmayr: This is polemic!]] That's not polemic, I'll prove it to you. Even if it hurts, I will continue to prove it to you, Mr Dietachmayr! Even if you're biting up there, you'll listen to that now! It's a very simple thing: People can count. You can calculate that the legal repair of a car costs one auto mechanic per hour 750 s. In order to be able to pay 750 S grosso for an hour, you have to work for a whole day. Perhaps it also highlights to Mr Dietachmayr, who is a great earner and can still bring his car to service, that an employee with an average of 25,000 S grosso, that is, a little more than a thousand a day, cannot afford a day's wage to be able to pay an hour's autoreparation. But the Minister of State tells us: Ladies and gentlemen, one thing you already have to understand: The whole has nothing to do with the extra wage costs and the tax and tax rate. – With all due respect, Mrs Bundesminister: I haven't heard anything like that in a long time. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Swimmling: That was at most a plot you said!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riepl.]] Yes, my colleague, this is all not true. Then the Austrians under your thirty-year-old government have become loud fraud. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Headmaster.]] But then you did something wrong in the education policy, then have She's done something wrong otherwise. Why, after thirty years of social-democratic government, do the Austrians suddenly become black workers? Answer the question! Imagine the discussion, and don't just say Sibyllin: This has nothing to do with labour costs. It can't be. – So cheap you really can’t do it! [[Abg. You're going to tell us how it is!]] You'll have to find a reason. I can tell you where the reason lies. People can no longer afford official work. [[Abg. Koppler: make a suggestion!]] – The proposal will be made soon, Mr Koppler. I'm glad you're so greedy about it. [[Abg. Schwemlein: How much time do you have yet to speak?]] - I've got five minutes left. You have launched a big campaign against host who make black money. You're right for three reasons: First: Of course, a state that does not enforce the laws that it leaves does not give up. Secondly, For competition reasons, it must be the interest of all those who legally pay their taxes that others also pay their taxes. And thirdly, It is, of course, unolidarian to the Community when the others pay their social security contributions, but they do not pay for them themselves, but benefit. - That's a fact. It's undisputed here in the room. [[Abg. Swimmlein: Proposal!]] We are all committed to the Constitution. Please note, however, that 40 000 gastronomy establishments, including the sum of laws and regulations, which this House has decided mainly with the votes of the Social Democrats and the People's Party, would not be viable for a quarter, namely 10 000, if they did not make black money! You can't survive! I can prove this to you on the basis of operating comparisons, I can prove it to you at any time on the basis of cost calculations. That is, the only chance there is for these businesses to make black money, because you have gradually made an increase in commercial activity, piece by piece, here in the National Council, which has now reached such a high cost level that the consumer – yourself! – is no longer willing to pay the prices for it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Copper]] Mr Dietachmayr, who always tells us how expensive half the beer is. It's so expensive because you've made such laws that have half the cost. Beer has been so expensive, and now you're getting over the price! This is a hammer, Mr Dietachmayr! [[Abg. Dietachmayr: Shame!]] That's a hammer! Your own laws have so expensived the beer, and now link You're about the expensive beer price! Shame! That's the point. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dietachmayr: You should be ashamed! You operate...!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The point is: You now stand there like an obelisk and see what you've done. They have so expensive activities in this country through a sum of laws – each of these individual laws has had a good reason, no question at all, and one has to comply with these laws, of course, otherwise one gives up on itself – that the benefits have become so expensive that the Austrian people cannot afford to do the same. So what happens now? – Mr Koppler, you wanted to know what is happening now. Now comes the Do-it-yourself society. Every construction company already has its own pick-up market today, where of course "do it yourself" is made. Your distinction between black work and non-black work, between neighbourhood aid and non-neighbourhood aid, Mrs Bundesminister, as you have answered on our question, does not deny a certain comic. Yes, of course, the neighborhood aid is paid! It is clear that everyone is coming together! Of course he gets a 150 S, and of course he gets You have the VAT on the use of a brick – but not on the brick with all the wage costs you have incurred, and all the additional costs that are still on it. In other words, the company can no longer afford the service which is officially offered. The example of my colleague Kier's haircut – I won't use it as you understand it – was probably excellent. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Headmaster.]] If you decide today on the Black Labour Act, you have to ask yourself: Do you really have the forehead, in addition to your overregulation of this society, to your expensive and therefore to thick state – to a strong and slender we always know – to put on the "police machine" now? – Considering What you have done wrong, Mr Dietachmayr! Don't always go here and don't point your finger to the others that don't fit you! Think about what laws you, Mr Dietachmayr, have pushed forward and decided here in Parliament! And think about what cost consequences these laws had! I recently filed an application for a law impact assessment law here; "recently" means 16 months ago. Recently, that is, nine months ago, there was a first reading of this Law Impact Assessment Act, and the "parking" of this request was actually done in some deep subcommittee of the Economic Committee in order not to have to deal with it. Ladies and gentlemen! You have to consider what your laws cost this country. Then you will understand why there is more and more blackwork. On the other hand, it is with the police that it is the one side and serves to maintain the rule of law, but to take measures so that black work no longer needs to be done, so that it no longer has to happen, that would be your real task.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e11562	I call Mr Kaufmann. [[Abg. Haigermoser: The clock is already running! Like ice hockey!]] That does not mean that I accept the honourable Member's remark that Mrs Minister's speech is a "smart". You might be able to talk in your club, but not in the plenary! That really annoyed me. Please, Mr. Kaufmann.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e11591	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! Mr Peter, you can still shout so loud here and be particularly artificially outraged. This request is really weakly formulated. Your argumentation is actually wrong in the back and in the front, and you do not make any proposal at all on the subject of blackwork itself. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Kier: (a copy of the urgent request to the height) Read!]] First point: Their basic assumption that there is also more black work where there are more regulations is quite simply wrong. This shows a very simple international comparison: 15 years of deregulation in England under Margaret Thatcher did not minimize the blackwork, but raised it and put it on a stand that is about twice as high as that in Austria. Countries such as Italy, Greece et cetera lie in the black-work in front of Austria. So your argument is not at all conclusive in this way. Second point: Your urgent question seems to me to be strange at all. In any case, this law on undeclared work will be in the House, and you will be able to discuss it for a long time in committee and in plenary. They repeatedly oppose the fact that regulations are discussed and taken in advance, for example in the case of the social partners. But now you yourself are trying to influence this before a government decision. So that doesn't fit in at all and contradicts your own argumentation. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: We'll get that 5 minutes before the meeting starts!]] Deputies Kier! You yourself said that black work is a bad crime. They also point out several reasons: Competition distortion, risk of the rule of law, blatant defaults in social security funds et cetera. – What you and your party do not think of at all, although the list you have made is that you add, for example, black work also leads to a particular reduction in individual workers' rights. You didn't say that at all. This leads to the fact that labour rights are not recognised, which leads to the individual being individually concerned about his future social security claims. This too is not a matter for you at all. [[Abg. May. Peter: No one argues!]] – But you do not suggest that, and that does not happen in your request. I believe that wage dumping is not a concept at all. That black work also leads to wage dumping is with you... – We will often discuss that enough, you know my attitude on it. [[Abg. Haigermoser:... Easter expansion!]] – The fact that undeclared work also leads to wage dumping is not at all a matter for you. But when it comes to workers, you can only imagine that the number of sick people is supposed to rise. In reality, the number of sick people is currently falling, not because people are so much healthier, but because working conditions are getting harder. But when it comes to neighborhood aid, you see things differently. You prefer to sympathize with the entrepreneur, and you are more sorry for the entrepreneur, who, in your opinion, is forced to employ illegal persons. On the other hand, in the case of neighborhood aid, you are more excited, although we must all be clear that without neighborhood aid many houses in Austria would not stand and many apartments would not be renovated. The student, for example, who gives a follow-up, helps in studying, is really not the problem with what it is all about. We are mainly concerned with the fight against illegal employment carried out in the framework of businesses, of businesses. This is clearly also the main problem. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They have, of course, talked a lot about additional labour costs, but they have not mentioned that the Minister of Finance has already said several times that the government's objective and the objective of the forthcoming tax reform is to reduce additional labour costs and thus labour costs. You're always talking about pay side-by-side costs, but I wonder where you really want to make the big cut. Some 30 per cent of the so-called additional wage costs, according to the entrepreneurs, which total more than 100 per cent, are remunerations for times such as holidays, health care, holidays, medical visits and government routes. Do you want to take something away from it? Do you want to continue paying for such times or not? That is why the discussion will take place in the future. Another point in the case of additional wage costs is, for example, 13th and 14ths. Reference, which is usually referred to, although that is not quite logical. You want 13th and 14th. Make reference narrow, do you want to take something away from there? [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Peter.]] And then less than half of the total additional wage costs are incurred by employers and employees in social insurance. – In so far as the additional wage costs are concerned. You also point out in your question that the preparation of the Black Labour Act is proof that the government is unable to work interministerially and networked. [[Abg. May. Peter: That's right!]] A balanced package of measures would, at least, require the cooperation of the Ministry of Social, Economic and Financial Affairs. That's what it says in your inquiry. § 10 of the draft law on the Black Labour Law provides under the heading "cooperation" that the individual authorities regularly inform themselves, coordinate in the pursuit of infringements, coordinate controls and carry out them together. And § 9 says which authorities are these: the main customs offices, the financial offices, the offices of the labour market service, the building workers' holiday fund and so on. So you obviously didn't read the draft of this Black Labour Act at all, otherwise you wouldn't argue that way. They claim, for example, that the draft police method reactivates et cetera and cites, as an example, the possibility of the authority to set up operations. If you had even missed the draft, you would know that this has to be done under strict respect of proportionality and only if, after repeated occurrences, the usual methods no longer work. But then, as a real last step, it is justified. That's exactly what the law says, but you obviously haven't read that. In my opinion, the bill on the Black Labour Act in the form now under discussion is absolutely necessary. We must fight against undeclared work because of the reasons which you have already mentioned in your request, but also because individual workers' rights are not to be cut down. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: Not only symptomatic, also causal!]] [[Abg. Dr. Kier: Don't say what's not going on!]] The major progress made in this law on undeclared work is – listen, Mr Kier, now that is what is going on – first of all, that control rights are strengthened and that the main customs offices are involved in the control. Currently 35 persons are available for the fight against illegal employment across Austria, then there will be 184. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: 42 jobs create them!]] If this is not an important measure! In any case, it's more than you've ever given of yourself. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: That's with the causality, but that's just the one side!]] Secondly, there will be more stringent sanctions, and thirdly, I think, the provision that, at the start of work, the application must be made to the local health insurance fund. This does not have to be done to the full extent that a notification would require, since, as everyone knows, this would of course be a data awareness which is not to be done so quickly. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: You have created the data consciousness yourself!]] However, you can at least specify the name of the worker, the employer and the start of the work via mobile phone, fax et cetera. – This is a very important instrument, since the most common objections to the checks were that this one and the black workers who had been found had already been notified, and 90 percent of the cases under this title were not at all traceable. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: How's this kausal?]] Therefore, the immediate registration at the start of work – and this is very causal – is particularly important. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: No, that's not causal!]] I come to the conclusion. – Deputy Kier! Your question also says that the draft does not give an answer to the question of how the fight against undeclared work can be achieved so that consumers can return to services. We also do not want to make this possible by making black work possible, but through higher wages, higher salaries and higher pensions. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: Why? It's an infamy!]] That's our way!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e11815	The next speaker is Mrs Tichy-Schreder. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e11837	Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Klubobfrau Dr. Schmidt has today dealt with the way in which the government parties deal with the opposition, because of the agenda: There was a desire from her side to negotiate agenda items 2 to 5 later et cetera. Dear Mrs. Dr. Schmidt! Although I think some of your statements are justified, what you have offered today was – forgive me – pure show. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Because – I wrote this exactly because it hurts me insanely that we in this House are more often just beating more and more foam – in the early days, in the best time, you are trying to put everything possible on your mind to the government. However, you are concerned only with the show, because the debates took place from 9 a.m. to 10.52 p.m., while the debate on those four agenda items took exactly 36 minutes. The debates were three times as long. If you had raised this urgent question on a subject which I believe must be discussed, but which is absolutely not as urgent as you are, then we would have been in the debate on the report by the Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors' Subcommittee on the End-Trace. In one word: All just show! I regret this because I have thought that you are a very serious politician. Today I have been told that this is not the case. I'd be glad if you returned to the seriality. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am quite clear with the urgent question, not with the title, but with regard to blackmail, in various points. However, I must say that the Federal Government is trying to create a government template on the subject of undeclared work. This is absolutely not easy, and most of us do not agree with those proposals that are now contained in the draft law. – It has made me very happy, Mrs Federal Minister, when you listed who was all involved, namely mainly the Ministry of Social Affairs in consultation with the Ministry of Finance, of course the social partners have been heard and so on. But the Ministry of Social Affairs, Mrs. Federal Minister, is responsible for the draft law. We will see from the opinions what the government template looks like. I cannot agree with everything that is currently in the law either. Do you know what made me particularly stupid? In your answer to question 6 of the Liberal Forum's question, which concerns your personal definition of neighbourhood assistance, you said – I didn't know everything so quickly – that for you neighborhood assistance is usually without pay, and then mention the regularity. I will take a close look at your answer to question 6 because I think the dog is buried there. On the other hand, we reject, quite rightly, black work in businesses, so that people are black, because this does not correspond to fair competition. For those entrepreneurs who conduct their businesses properly and according to the laws are harmed by this. That's why the Chamber of Commerce also has its own department, its own force that fights the "fush". Perhaps one could connect the individual groups, as it is so beautiful in new German, by bringing together the forces in this area. But I would also like to mention something, Mrs Federal Minister. They spoke apodically of the Luxembourg model and of the lack of housing in Luxembourg et cetera. The fact that Luxembourg has no housing support is true. In my opinion, we have a housing promotion, but to look at the Luxembourg model and to turn it into Austrian would be a possibility. This also requires the economy for a long time. [[Abg. Haigermoser: You just need to decide!]] Wait, gentlemen, listen! The Luxembourg model comes from crafts and trades. It is about how it should be designed in connection with housing development. How can I change it? It is a matter of discussing the various proposals. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Don't ask any questions! You have answers to give!]] – Mr Haigermoser! Discussing is not yours, you just want to go over it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I understand. But we need to discuss the various proposals. How do you see housing promotion, how do you see the Luxembourg model? Both are to be taken into account, namely that on the one hand, the distribution of labour is fair and fair taxes are coming in, but on the other hand, it must not be facilitated to divert taxes around the state. It offers itself – in this I give you the right – through some laws there and there just to bypass the state. We should consider this, but that is why this question, Mr Kier, is not so urgent. It is important that we talk about it. No country has so far found a way to deal successfully with this phenomenon. So we have to talk about it, I am right in it, and we can certainly also talk about it in the committee. In my Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, I am sure no one can complain that requests are not granted enough time. I give Mr Peter the right to say that some of the amendments are incomplete, but I promised him that we will debate in detail in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy the requests made by the Liberal Forum. For I have never had a discussion in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, but everyone could talk as long and as much as he wanted. We'll talk about it. We must also try to find out what is being done in other countries. I know that there is the Send Directive in Germany. The employees of Austrian companies, who can work beyond the border, are already being pursued by a convoy from the point of view of the border – it is usually "cushion" or something else on the vehicles – up to the one who has given the order. It will then be asked whether the company which is now carrying out work there has made all the requirements for the notification of workers in accordance with the Send Directive. If we work together across Europe, we can draw up different ideas for further action in this area based on the experience of other countries. Mr. Dr. Kier! They have said that the first step in illegality has practically led to further steps being taken. I have to ask you now: Do you also represent this opinion in the drug debate? . I would be careful in your place with the sentence that the first step into illegality led to further illegality. So be more careful in your debates so that you do not say that once you take a drug, you are immediately in the world of drugs. I know that the Liberals' opinion on this is quite different. One has to apply one argument in such a way that it applies everywhere. – But Your argument is not even valid on this issue, and the drug problem is precisely the opposite. That's what I wanted to say. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: If the topics are different, the arguments are different too!]] I hope that we will discuss this in detail. We want the same conditions of competition, not only between businesses, but also against the so-called bufferers, who already offer themselves in the daily newspapers, from where they can be followed very easily. There are possibilities, and I have great hopes that the government template will be in line with our wishes.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e11923	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Haider. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e11944	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! In my opinion, Mr Kaufmann rightly pointed out that the problem of black work, the "grey" market, is related to the fact that many people simply cannot afford the services offered on the market. The question arises whether to continue for years: Black work is on the increase, and it is tried to get under control with methods of police supervision and stronger controls and so on. It's always been done that way. There is already a wealth of controls, the state is working to a great extent towards the economy. [[Abg. May. Merchant: Not at this point!]] The labour inspectors, trade inspectors, local health insurance companies, financial and wage taxpayers now come to the customs authorities or the special "checkers". I wonder if people will have more money at their disposal because the state is spending more money on fighting the peppers. The real task must be to get hold of the cause of the problem. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The reason for the problem is that employees are too expensive for businesses and the wages that employees get for their professional qualifications are too low. The first point is therefore: It is important to make a proper tax reform. A government that is talking about the fight against the "fushers" but has not even returned the cold progression to the workers for ten years, should not be surprised if the people involved in small and medium-sized incomes are increasingly "black" or need to escape to the black market. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They, as responsible for the Chamber of Labour, know very well that the government is really in arrears. The same is true of the issue of additional wage costs. It is really amusing to follow the way in which the two government parties have given each other a gift. The black economic alliances – whose Mr President is present – are rubbing themselves in advertisements of the red government half in which they claim that reality is terrible: Load record: the highest tax and tax burden of the Second Republic – in this I agree with you, Mr President – Sub-sector: Workers' Chamber and ÖGB prevent the training of apprentices; Push: Blackwork is booming because nothing is done against the high additional wage costs. – Economy creates work, Economic Federation of the ÖVP. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Here you look!]] I can only say: Bravo! But what consequences do you draw from it? – Their consequences are not to develop a model to reduce the high additional wage costs. There would be a lot of possibilities. [[Abg. Ing. Madethaner talks to Abg. Tichy Schreiter.]] Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council. Perhaps you and my colleague will give me your brief attention. I would like to address you personally and ask why, on the one hand, you are calling for the reduction of additional labour costs in an advertisement, but on the other hand, the Chamber of Commerce is all the more important to ensure that additional labour costs continue to rise. There are, for example, Chamber II. Since 1986 no more schilling has been paid out of this worker-handling fund, but the Chamber of Commerce is still taking up this Chamber II in billions only for workers-handling. You could give up on that! This is more than 3 billion schilling! This would be a substantial relief from businesses. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The same is true of the calculation of the building workers' holiday fund. There it concerns red like black, workers' chamber and union on the one hand and economic chamber on the other. The calculations of contribution rates are far too high. Surpluses are constantly generated, which are then divided under the hand between red and black, but not passed on to the operation by concrete contribution reductions. Such a transfer would, for example, contribute to the reduction of additional labour costs! Or, Mr Kaufmann: Why do the Austrian Chambers of Workers have to calculate the maximum contribution granted to them by law from all the wages of the employees? Why is that necessary? Why is it necessary for the Chamber of Labour to calculate the maximum contributions? All over the world, 0.5 percent of the gross wage amount is charged, although this is the highest mark. Be honest: They alone have so many billions on the high edge at the Chamber of Labour of Lower Austria that you now use the billions to finance a special pension right for employees and staff instead of reducing the additional wage costs with lower contributions and thus contributing to employment. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Or on the other hand, to reduce the additional wage costs – Madethaner and Kaufmann, both social partners –: What about the high red tape in the farms? – Mr Maderthaner says in almost every issue: 70 million hours of work must be done free of charge for the State. Yes, Mr President. But then you have the obligation to do something with your government group to ensure that the Austrians do not have to do 70 million hours of work in the enterprises free of charge for the state! What working hours are these? – Such for wage settlements, tax settlements, health insurance and social security accounts. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Statistics!]] Are you not able to submit a legislative proposal once, so that perhaps a uniform basis of assessment is introduced for all wage charges, so that businesses have less effort? – This would be a proposal to make the whole thing a little cheaper. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Then you go here and say, Because we are not able and not willing to reduce the effort in our own Chamber Filz by only a billion or a few hundred million schillings, so that the additional wage costs are reduced and that we have more legal work, we must divert ourselves from the problem. Distraction at SPÖ: police methods, even more control, even more caretakers; the customs authorities are being removed from the border and heated to the construction sites. A distraction from the ÖVP: expensive advertisements of the forced members who are still allowed to finance the nonsense that is being propagated there. Ladies and gentlemen! So you won't be able to solve the problems. Instead of saying that the puss must be restrained and the house builders must be held responsible, let us try it out with the market! Maybe we'll create a model in such a way as to say: Anyone who legally builds his house or builds his own home and proves this by legal invoices from professionals, to whom we return the VAT! This will make you much more successful than if you sit around the construction sites with new police forces. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I would have liked to hear that from you, Mrs Federal Minister! Move out! Go to the construction sites and ask the people what they really want! The workers then want to earn more when they work, and the businesses want less burden due to additional wage costs. This is the task of the framework conditions you need to set for the businesses. But politics is moving in a different direction. There is nothing going to be changed, the chamber envelopes remain the same, the additional wage costs will not be... [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Silhavy and Mr Edler.]] What? [[Abg. Edler: All over you have the money!]] Where? [[Abg. Edler: In the chamber!]] We don't have the majority there. The liberals have even been pushed out of the Bureau in the Federal Chamber, although they are the second strongest political group, and the socialists have been co-opted so that you will continue to be among you, dear friends! That's reality. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: (in the direction of SPÖ) Abkassier are you!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] In order to continue where the money is distributed, one remains among himself and thus no one who might say – like Haigermoser – once: Yes, we'll reduce the chamber envelope II! Ladies and gentlemen! And in this way it goes on. The next step you're going to come to the dilemma is the Easter enlargement. If you go through Easter enlargement, in turn, you will have more cheap labour illegally on the Austrian labour market and Austrian workers will get into a more problematic situation. I would also have liked to hear from you, Mr Kaufmann. You know, and that's a problem for you, too. But you should also make it clear here, as a Member of a government party, that the path to further enlargement of the East will only lead us to have even more undeclared work, even more illegal foreigners on the construction sites and even more wage dumping. We will have to finance even more unemployed people. This is the success of a policy that says: We have to stop the blackwork. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That is why I ask you: Let things be with the controls! Think about how you could reduce your chamber state in order to reduce the additional wage costs. Think about it, Mrs Sozialminister, as you may be able to make a contribution to the fact that those who work in this country are getting more money into their hands so that it is no longer the same as today on the construction sites: If you employ a construction worker, he earns on average – I would say – 18 000 S to 19 000 S if he does a few overtime hours. This costs a total wage of 50 000 s! People no longer understand the world, both entrepreneurs and employees. For they say: If 50 000 s is the wage burden for getting 19 000 s net, then work is no longer paying off! There you have to go: with market solutions – and not with police state methods!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e12117	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e12138	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Somehow I have assumed that Mr Haider, of his national studies in the United States, has a little more knowledge of what we should actually talk about. But since he's obviously not alone with this, I don't need to worry about it any more. The request is called "Government Push at Blackwork"... [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The criticism goes against the opposition as always! That's the answer to the government!]] I'll explain the answer. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Take a stand with the government! But that's unpleasant! The Trade Union Left Block is moving!]] Although the request is called "government-punch in blackwork", it makes a fundamental mistake. Better said: You, ladies and gentlemen of the Liberal Forum, make a fundamental mistake. That is what the honourable Member Haider has now done. They argue with numbers from Univ.-Prof. Dr. Schneider, who do not refer to blackwork. These figures relate to the field of the shadow economy, and the shadow economy, Mr. Peter, is in part black work, in part tax evasion, but most of it – please check with Schneider! – that area which cannot be legalised, as you suggest in question 7. [[Abg. May. Peter: I didn't defend the blackwork!]] The whole area of criminal action down to trafficking in human beings is shadow economy, drug trafficking is a shadow economy, shoplifting is just as shadow economy as anything that happens in the area of organized crime in economic activities. [[Abg. May. Peter: Who defends this?]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: You want to legalize drug trafficking!]] This explains the sum of 230 billion Schilling, the Univ.-Prof. Schneider for Austria suggests for this. Not all 230 billion schillings concern undeclared work, but the blackwork is part of it. That is, when we talk about it, we also need to know what we are talking about. We are actually talking – I suppose – not about the shadow economy, but about the blackwork. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: In your opinion, what is the share of black work?]] That's not a question to me, it's a question to Prof. Schneider, and he's going around her. Read this in the studies! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: He's going around us?]] Please? [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Is he going around us?]] It's possible. You know better, I know, Mr. Haider. You know better. You know how much the share of undeclared work in Austria is – a question that concerns many more for legitimate reasons, but which are still a little more cautious in the answers. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: In concrete terms!]] What you have offered answers has had relatively little to do with the real problem. [[Abg. Gaugg: What you have told us so far has nothing to do with this!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I don't think we should have shadow boxes around the shadow industry. If we take the issue of undeclared work seriously, we should consider exactly what we need. It can be seen that two large answers are given in this Chamber. One is: The State should control and regulate everything, monitor everything, and submit to the work as a whole – in particular labour – down to the last area of concrete, general rules, which are also normative and can be controlled. I have a problem with that. In this context, the State is the player, who also makes regulations in the field of greywork, which approaches to blackwork and leads to legal work. For example, I take up the field of care work, ladies and gentlemen. What is other than greywork, please, what the state makes available in the field of care work on the care allowance? - It's not blackwork, it's greywork. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: This is not a shadow economy!]] The State closes its eyes – you, Mr. Feurstein, above all – and says: We know that this work is priceless and cannot be legalized in the sense that it can be paid as normal employment, and that is why we produce 20 S to 30 S. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Then the housewife is also a shadow business!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] However, the state is still in another area... [[Abg. Dr. Haider: colleague! Then the housewife is also a black worker! She gets economic money that she doesn't tax!]] I will come back to that, Mr Haider. I do not want to give a national lecture on how you obviously did not visit them properly in the US. But I'm still talking about housework. Now I'm talking about greywork. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You throw nebula grenades to help the government!]] That's exactly what's happening in the field of care money. The problem we have is not just the field of nursing. There the state apparently closes its eyes and says: We are pleased that this work is done at all. We are not interested in whether or not a normal fee is paid there. We can't pay it, we don't want to pay it. The most important thing is that this work is being done. – This is reality. Look at the hourly rates! The second area is a little further away. The State is also involved in the area of shadow economy in which it is concerned about transnational corruption. Purchasing funds abroad can be claimed tax-reduced by Austrian companies. Please, Dr. Haider, what is the other thing than that the state is acting as a promoter of corruption in the area of organised crime – what you are always interested in? – We should talk about it too. It's a shadow economy. But I am now returning to the field of black work – because this is the interesting one, or that would be the real topic. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Let's hear it!]] There are two major regulatory options: Either to control everything – that is the proposal that the Federal Minister represents – or – so the other proposal made here in the House – to leave it essentially to the market. If we reduce the tax rates as far as possible, then it will go somehow. The tax rates are currently too high. If we make the tax rates so low – Dr. Haider finds himself with his "flat tax" as well as the ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP and partly also of the Liberal Forum – that they are accepted by the economy. I also think that this path is an impracticable and false one. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: This is a step you can understand!]] There are also corresponding results. Where this path has gone, it has already been said in the debate: in the USA under Reagan. With a huge tax reduction programme, we have generated huge deficits for the state. That was the result. But I'm coming back to the blackwork. What is it about blackwork? – We do not need an additional police department, which does not again cover the employees – the black workers – but continues to criminalise the black workers. We also do not need any measures to be taken to remedy tax evasion by means of tax relief. That's nonsense. We need – and that should be the subject of the debate – real work, a redistribution of paid and unpaid work. That would be the questions we should discuss. But redistributing unpaid work requires different answers than legalizing undeclared work. You'll have to agree with me, too, Mrs Schmidt. That is exactly the problem that you have answered in a completely wrong way – also by the fact that you have confused the economy of the shadows and the blacks in your request – and completely inadequately answered. By the way, the economists are also of different opinion as to whether the effect of undeclared work in a country on the economy is really so negative. We should talk about which areas we do not want to have a black job. Some criteria have already been mentioned by Mr Kier, and I share his view that where the competition is distorted, and – I would add that – there are also inhuman conditions in which employees are subject to unhumane conditions. This applies to the examples cited by the Federal Minister. But the matter has never been discussed in the House. That is why I am going to take the party of those, Mrs Federal Minister, whom you mentioned in your example, but which you have given an insufficient response. This is what the whole debate is about so far. Mrs. Federal Minister! The 25 employees who have been taken up in the holding you mentioned will be removed from Austria without receiving a remuneration without having the opportunity to claim their illegal relationship in a legal relationship. They don't have this possibility, they're being postponed. The employee is most likely to receive a small fine. You know that, Mrs. Federal Minister. A very simple answer would be possible. Why are we not talking about the fact that, in the areas where organized undeclared work takes place, workers have to pay unemployment insurance contributions for at least one year in order to allow employees to legalize their status? – That would be a "Lex Bärental", because Mr. Haider has been... [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e12379	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e12395	...that's exactly what it's gonna have to do. Ladies and gentlemen! We need measures of a different kind. We need measures that also provide understanding for those who must work as black workers in this country and not for those who work in the area of neighbourhood assistance. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] These are other measures, ladies and gentlemen. We should talk about these and not have a sham debate, a shadow fight.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e12434	Mrs Schaffenrath's next speech. The speaking time is 10 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e12455	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! I would like to join where Mr Oellinger has stopped, namely in the case you have referred to here and where people have been illegally employed: Foreigners and foreigners without insurance, still for a hunger wage. I think we all agree, anyway, that this must be strongly condemned and that it is above all about protecting those concerned accordingly. I would like to remind you once again. Mrs. Minister! You know, of course, that, in connection with the many refugees in Austria, there has been a very restrictive policy when it came to giving these people the opportunity to work legally. I think that the people in charge have to ask themselves the question to what extent they have not also prepared the ground for this situation. With the law now under discussion You find such companies, of course, and that's good. But you will not be able to cover many areas at all, and you will not be able to eliminate the causes of the problem in particular. Many of these causes have already been addressed here by the various parties, especially the high additional wage costs which make these services simply no longer manageable. I do not want to try this famous mechanic hour here again. In any case, they will not change anything in the entire service sector at all, neither with the hairdressers, nor with the cosmetics and cosmetics, nor with women who do change work in black work, because they may be able to cut well. Also in many other areas They don't change anything at all. I admit that it would be good if these people made themselves independent and would become entrepreneurs or entrepreneurs. But independence cannot simply be ordered. Self-employment needs less bureaucracy for the economy, and it needs a cost relief. It just needs a new corporate spirit. But what has the government done so far? – She probably worked directly in the opposite direction. I say it again: Nowhere can this be seen more clearly than under the contract regulations. With this, you have created more bureaucracy, so that you have created higher costs – when it comes to work performance – so that you have made the way to self-employment much more difficult. And for those people who would dare the way into independence, you will also build barriers in the form of a very restrictive trade order. In this case, you will retain qualifications in areas where they cannot be justified. We have put forward two proposals not only for this but in the meantime. Of course, women are particularly affected in this area! It is more difficult for women to provide proof of qualifications, because they often leave vocational training early on, take care of them, and so on, and because the financial burden on women in particular is not so easy to compensate for the receipt of this certificate of qualification. I simply can't see why, for example, a woman who is able to sew well can make the changes – that's what I'm saying as a woman, because I often need such changes – can't make herself independent in this area, why she needs a master's exam, a qualification certificate in the cutting industry, instead of getting the chance to make herself independent, why she can't get out of the blackwork in legal conditions and create her own job! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Childcare is also such an area. What happens to blackwork is probably not accessible at all. And I am not yet talking about the unpaid work that mothers of course do, but I am only talking about all those women who care for children for a certain remuneration in the neighborhood or in the near vicinity, but are not covered by social law. You have, of course, also recognized this, Mrs Minister, because in the National Employment Action Plan you yourself say that 3,000 jobs could be created alone in the field of day-mothers. But you know, of course, that reality looks quite different! In Lower Austria there are care permits for 1,372 persons, but only 58 are reported as legal employment. Or: In Vienna there are 615 care permits, reported only 166 employment conditions. In Tyrol we find this in a much more extreme relationship. There you finance black work, because the country of Tyrol provides 8 million schilling for the day mother projects, but these women are not registered, are not covered by social law. In any case, they work in a very, very grey area – I call it that. Of course, I know that women in particular often have no other option at all than to resort to such grey areas, because public institutions are simply not enough, because we are simply under-supplyed in this regard. But it is precisely this that we should set out measures and provide for rules that will also allow these women, those people who have to care for them, to organize themselves. We have already tabled a similar proposal dealing with the tax deductibility of child care costs, and we are now making a similar request in the course of this debate, which reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] The argument – Mrs Mertel's not here now – is also outraged, but only those who can afford to earn a lot of money. In any case, through this negative tax model, we also help those who are in a difficult financial situation. Unfortunately, I have to conclude. Mrs. Minister! You also know, of course, that you can't reach those estimated 60 000 people in Austria who work as a host, as domestic workers, and also work around the house, in the garden, so to speak, with this law at all. In any case, only 4 700 of these persons are officially registered, 2 900 of whom are slightly employed. We should really be discussing a tax deductibility of services here. We should discuss this fairly and openly and also jump over our ideological shadows. It can't be bad to create jobs! It can't be wrong to give people an opportunity to social security, to safeguard labour law. The need is there, the work is paid – but these people are not insured. Mrs Minister and ladies and gentlemen of the Government! You should really think seriously about the areas in which you are actually provoking black work and the shadow economy. Unfortunately and restrictive measures will not remove the problem at all!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e12571	Mrs Schaffenrath's motion for a resolution has been properly tabled, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Mr Riepl has now come to speak. Speech time: maximum 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e12595	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! First of all, I would like to deal with a comment made by Mr Haider. In his remarks he spoke of the additional wage costs and in this context also mentioned the Chamber of Workers' contributions. I just wonder, Mr Haider, how workers' chamber contributions are to help reduce the additional wage costs of employers. In any case, you have drawn this conclusion, but I note that you are not interested in my question. [[Abg. Dr. Haider talks to a group colleague.]] This is actually the subject for me, too. In any case, the Chamber of Labour is a solidarity contribution to the great achievements of the Chambers of Workers and therefore certainly makes sense. On the other hand, the solidarity of the Members of the Liberal Party serves, for example, to eliminate the debt of the Free Party. The question of whether this is just as meaningful, I leave it in the room. Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning of her reply, the Federal Minister meant that the Liberals should actually be thanked for this urgent request. I should like to thank you for the fact that, at the beginning of this question, there is a very honest and correct statement. As you know, the first sentence of this question, Mr Peter and Mr Kier, is: "The past decades in Austria have been marked by a continuous improvement in the economic situation, but also by a general increase in prosperity." That's a fact and a statement that we support that's right that's okay. I think it is important in this context to bear in mind how this prosperity, which we have achieved together, and the very positive economic development has ever been achieved. I think there are several reasons for this. The first reason I am aware of is that there are a lot of diligent workers in our country. Secondly, there are also a lot of hard-working entrepreneurs who are genuinely trying to subordinate the economy not only to profit, but to be the real social partners in our economy. This is certainly the majority of entrepreneurs – I say as a convinced trade unionist. But there are, and I would also like to stress, a third reason, in my opinion, why it has gone up in Austria in the last decades. That is the fact that the government in this country has been in the social democratic hand for 28 years. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Peter: Of course I can't share that! I can't follow you that far!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I think that should be mentioned in such a discussion. I would therefore like to thank you for the introduction of the urgent request, which is actually proof that my claim is not incorrect. You stress in your request that state regulations are to blame for people working black. . I can tell you from practice that in recent months and years we have been more and more confronted with the fact that a particular form of illegal employment seems to be coming into existence. This is not a matter of individual people who help out somewhere that might be there or there deserve a few schillings, but rather a turnaround of the trend. We have noticed this when we have suddenly found quite new forms of organized illegal employment. As companies that were not legal companies suddenly entered the market, dumping prices brought market shares and exploited the workers concerned. Mr Oellinger has already pointed out: There are cases where workers do not receive a fixed or collective wage. They often get no pay at all, but are fed off with a pocket money. If you look at where, for example, in certain areas of construction and construction, but also in the area of metal, these companies occur, you can see that they are always the same. It has, as it were, developed its own section in the field of this economy, which makes great competition and distorts competition among those companies that comply with the laws which are designed to make a proper and correct business policy. For example, there are competitive advantages for the black sheep that already occur in flocks, and competitive disadvantages for those farms who want to work correctly and thus get under great pressure. In 1997, the competent authorities already pointed out that there had been revisions in the same way as in previous years. Farms were reviewed, in particular in the direction of infringements of the Foreign Employment Act. We can see today that in the central administrative penalty established in our Republic, there are already 9 958 convictions that have been held. These are cases in which companies have been noticed, in particular because of the violation of the Foreign Employment Act. We are today at the beginning of the debate on a new law, and I am convinced that in the next few weeks and months we will have even more opportunity to deal with details of this government template and, above all, to discuss its implementation. I believe that this government template is a suitable, important and new instrument to combat, in particular, the organized forms of illegal employment. I think that, in detail, as I said earlier, we should really deal with the proposals of the opposition parties when it comes to re-creating and subsequently applying an instrument, a tool that will restrict the shadow economy in this area. I think we will not get out of this area without control. It is necessary to determine in the checks how long workers have been illegally employed, and it is especially important to determine, in particular, on larger construction sites, which employer belongs to some undeclared workers. It is also necessary to put government cooperation in a new legal field. The possibilities for cooperation were available, but not yet efficient enough. I think that it is also necessary, in connection with the checks, to ensure records of employees and to be able to give a direct ruling by the control authority in the event of minor offences. Finally, this path would also lead to a reduction in bureaucracy. I think the registration of social security at the start of work – Mr Kaufmann has already done this – is a very important element in this new legal situation. I believe that we will also have the approval of Mr Peter in particular when it comes to fixing the application for social security. Mr Peter, ladies and gentlemen! As I take out an APA notification, you have even advocated a social security card to be introduced in your opinion. So if we want an immediate registration and you even have a ID card, it is only logical that you need control of it at the end of the day. Ladies and gentlemen! As a whole, we Socialists are interested in a serious and reasonable debate on this issue, and I appeal to all those who want to postpone the guilt of blackmail to individual members of the government, or to titulate the law with the word "smart," but to bear in mind that they risk not being able to see a political group making such comments as serious interlocutors on this issue. They would not do the same! I think we are creating more tools for combating illegal employment with this bill, which will ultimately lead us to take a step in the right direction!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e12643	The next speaker was Mr Feurstein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e12664	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to start with two positive remarks. This urgent question differs in principle from the other urgent questions we have discussed and discussed in recent weeks and months. With the exception of two "slippers", I would like to say that the discussion was very factual. There have been arguments and attempts have also been made to formulate clear positions. That is positive. I am also in favour of what Mrs Ingrid Tichy-Schreder has already mentioned, namely that the draft law of a ministry can be discussed here in the House as early as possible, even though it is not yet a government proposal, and exchange views on it. [[Demonstrative applause at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! But let me also make a clear statement: We should be careful to criminalise the terms "work" and "employment" through this law! I believe that we should, in principle, adopt a positive attitude towards those people who work in the economy who earn money and provide services. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This must not be questioned, and I do not particularly like it if I have to criticise this draft, if punishment is put too much at the heart of this law, so to speak. Rather, we should take all the opinions – not only those that have been expressed here in the House today – seriously and also clarify those which have already been delivered by various bodies on this draft and deal seriously with them. I mention only two examples in this respect, although I could mention many of the comments that have been received. The board of attorneys says: "The measures envisaged are superfluous, unclear and constitutional sometimes dubious." Second example: The Federal Ministry of the Environment, Youth and Family writes: "Before taking measures that are not accepted by society as a whole, restrictive measures in the reduction of undeclared work" – this is our concern – "such measures should be considered, which in the past create a positive incentive for employment under the legal provisions." – Ladies and gentlemen! This is a very important point in the further consultation of this law! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would therefore like to add that we attach to the control the importance it is supposed to have. Control must not and should not always lead to punishment, but control should also result in consultation and assistance. I would like to give you a very specific example of what we have been calling for over the last few weeks. The Workers' Protection Act provides for controls, and if a person fails to comply with the provisions, it is very often punishable. I think we should consider whether we should not focus more on consulting, helping the labour inspectorate in the context of dealing with this future law. I think this is a very important point that should be considered in connection with such a law. The second important point is neighborhood aid. Some of my previous speakers have already mentioned them. I should like to warn you that this law will affect the aid of the neighborhood. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A few months ago, we discussed the intensification of the association law. This would have threatened volunteering in important areas. We have therefore distanced ourselves from it. I would also like to thank the Minister responsible for dispensing from this draft law that he has not brought him here in the House. In the same way, it is on the issue of neighbourhood aid that we urgently need. I have some concerns, ladies and gentlemen, about the "Luxembourg model" on the Liberal Forum. It is certainly not possible to solve this problem. Neighbourhood aid must be considered quite different from the one in the "Luxembourg model". I do not want to deal with the definition of the word 'neighbourhood aid' here, but the Minister has quite rightly meant that one must look at it very carefully and that this is a very sensitive question. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Last point: Black-on-the-collar work. Black jobs are problematic when there is an abuse of social benefits. We must also take this into account in this context. There is the abuse of social benefits from two sides, one when someone is illegally employed. I cannot agree with what Mr Oellinger has asked for here. Those who are illegally employed must not be preferred. I can't! This would mean a very massive intervention in our legal system and would reward those who violate laws. [[Abg. Oils: likeness!]] This means, however, that we must be very careful to ensure that all social security schemes are subject to employment, as provided for in our laws. It is equally important, however, that real social benefits should not be received if work is carried out. Unemployment insurance is certainly an area in which we have not reached that which would be desirable, namely that only the person who receives an unemployment insurance benefit has the right to be unemployed who does not find employment which cannot work which does not find decent or suitable work. Only this one must enjoy protection, and it must not be in principle the way it can be observed again and again today. That is why I am very much in favour of the implementation of these measures which have already been taken. We know that over the last two years, in much more cases, unemployment benefit has been discontinued than before, before 1996, because an instrument has already begun to be grasped. Finally, I would like to say: First point: This law has a huge regulatory significance. That is why careful consultation and discussion is needed with all the groups that have made their views known. Second point: It is necessary to protect the person who acts correctly in the social security field in the field of taxation. A law of protection is intended to serve those who act correctly in economic life. There should be no competitive preference for the one who violates laws. Third point: We are opposed to Austria becoming a police state when this law comes into force. In this I agree with all those who have notified themselves and put forward this argument. Fourth point: Control must also include consultation. Control shall not lead exclusively to punishment. If we take all of this into account, I think we could work out a good law.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e12727	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e12748	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The need to combat undeclared work is correct. Mrs Bundesminister, you mentioned numbers, among other things a number of Professor Schneider, namely 233 billion. I would like to mention the figure that he made for the previous year, which is 220 billion. This means that there is an increasing trend. [[Abg. Oellinger: This also includes crime, and it has nothing to do with black work!]] After all, this is a segment of the shadow economy that he is leading, and that is also known, as I mean. It is therefore necessary to counteract this. However, the approach to counter this is different. But one thing is certain, Mrs Bundesminister: An essential reason for the exploitation, for the growth of the tax resistance, are certainly the constantly rising taxes, which are constantly rising taxes. You know that in Austria we have achieved a tax rate of 45.7 percent – rising trend! [[Abg. Oillinger: That's not true at all! There must be much more black work in Scandinavia!]] They're going here, and they're trying to counter this with this black work law. They are obviously – and this is a symptom fight – the causes of this matter don't matter. That is, Mrs. Federal Minister, a refusal of reality! These are the effects of 28 years of socialist economic and tax policy. It must not be true that the desire of the State is constantly increasing, the incomes of the Austrians are constantly falling, the cold progression is not being balanced, and workers are also becoming too expensive for small and medium-sized enterprises, especially small and medium-sized enterprises. Mrs. Federal Minister! There is, of course, a need for funding, but you are also very likely to make money available for job security, as you say. I am thinking, for example, of the request made by the company Ankerbrot, which is located in Brussels, with 90 million schillings – 45 million shillings of which come from your resort – among the poor – not to secure or create jobs, but to destroy jobs, to help the company finance its branch network at the expense of the small and medium-sized economies, at the expense of the industrial bakers! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! Together with your colleague, Mr Edlinger, you are developing into the horrendous duo of this Federal Government. The Minister of Finance criminalises the host by passing over it on a flat-rate basis and by his actions almost every one to the tax evasioner, to the rightbreaker. Why don't you expand your look? – The point of view of things may, of course, be different for you. Why Grab hold But you're not up to the possibility that the liberals show, along with your Minister of Finance? Why don't you look at the fact that you are actually entering into a tax relief to get the economy back into economics to get capital out of the way, not to get capital to get profit out of control, but to be seen as a necessity for the economy to flourish? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Why Wear You are not helping to strengthen purchasing power in our country, domestic demand? – It seems that this does not fit, as I believe, into your socialist view of this area. How else can it be – and this statement also comes from your political field; it comes from one of your successors; it is about the tax reform of 2000 – that workers' chamber president Tumpel says that tax reform 2000 should benefit mainly workers with low and medium incomes? This measure – as he says – takes precedence over a relief from companies. Mrs. Federal Minister! There is no class struggle, but it is recommended that this necessary measure be given the necessary armor. This means a clear discharge, a reduction, a withdrawal of taxes. Mrs. Federal Minister! A law will soon be discussed in the Committee from your area, namely the Building Workers' Coordination Act. This is a directive which must be complied with. The costs, which are not mentioned, will again contribute significantly to the development, particularly in the field of construction activities, the construction industry – this goes down to the smallest structural measure being taken. A safety and consumer protection coordinator is required. As a result, there is an increase in the cost. The consequence of this is: The bureaucrats welcome, the effort increases, the benefits to be paid for that State and not paid out. Think about it, please! Finally, go on to think of tax reductions and a withdrawal of the state in many areas!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e12809	Mr Smolle is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Time left: 6 minutes. [[Abg. Smolle: (on the way to the speaker's desk) 60 minutes?]] - Six minutes. [[Abg. Smolle: I understood 60 minutes! I was excited!]] The day isn't over yet. You can take the floor later. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e12857	Gospod predsednik! Visoki Dom! Mr President. High house! Minister! Gospa administrativea! It has already been said by my previous speakers in the area of the entire social spectrum, which we are discussing here today. Minister! It must, of course, cause concern to every serious politician about the development of the labour market throughout Austria, but above all to those in Carinthia. On the one hand, we are dealing with businesses that leave our Republic and migrate to neighbouring countries, and on the other hand we are faced with the fact that a number of services, in particular, disappear first into the grey area and then into the dark area. We are all here, of course, opposed to undeclared work, that is clear, and our request also clearly points out in this direction. Just, ladies and gentlemen: We do not want to fight symptoms, but to eliminate the causes of undeclared work. [[Abg. Schuster: Are you for neighborhood assistance?]] – I am, of course, for neighborhood assistance. For example, I also cut the Thujans of my neighbor, because we have a common land border and do so alternately. I'm very happy to do that. There's no theoretical access to neighborhood aid for me. But now on the subject. Minister! Just as you want to fight brushwork, as you announce in your law, so it can't go. When we first learned that the customs authorities were being dismantled, we thought it was about reducing red tape. Now we see that, in reality, a new bureaucracy, a "punch police" is being set up again, and that is certainly not a solution, ladies and gentlemen. We are not in favour of combating symptomism, but rather of combating the causes, and we simply have to find that there are several reasons for this development. Many people are already in poverty – I am referring to the results of the Salzburg poverty conference – and they simply cannot afford expensive services. There are not a few minimum pensioners in Austria who can no longer pay the installer bill. That is why, Mrs Minister, it must come to a relief from work. This is already a prayer mill-like repetition, which has already taken place x-time here from this pult: There must be change! There must be a reduction in red tape! It must be cheaper for the state! It must be liberalized in the trade order! We must leave it to the individual companies to proceed flexibly in their business agreements! It is no longer so easy to overwhelm any increase – including those in the pay sector – globally. We know that a 3 per cent increase in wages ultimately causes 5, 6 per cent or 7 per cent of the cost of the product price, and that is not as easy, especially for an economy that is as export-oriented as ours. I also have to say that I am not satisfied with the reports that have come from the Pörtschach Summit. It was very wrong for me to say that one would try to finance the labour market through a somewhat more generous monetary policy, through a not quite that hard currency. Minister! This is certainly not the right way! This could result in theoretically more money being available in the pockets of the citizens, but in fact it is money that is no longer worth what is on it as nominal. Minister! I would like to mention another area that I think is very important. This is the area of cultural cooperation in the border area. You know, Madam Minister, what I am addressing you to. It cannot be assumed that cultural exchange is, as it were, covered by the entire strictness of the Austrian labour regulations. [[Abg. Gaugg: What?]] We have it to do with people who carry a trumpet or guitar in the trunk when they enter Austria, and these are referred to for one year of the country when they say they are on their way to some cultural event in the Southern Carinthian region or somewhere in the Burgenland. I believe that one should not resort to such measures, but, in my opinion, it would be very important to introduce clear derogations in connection with the forthcoming legislative change in which we promote cultural exchange. Finally, I would like to clearly represent the other attitude of the Liberal Forum: We Liberals believe that we will bring about reforms, especially with regard to our eastern and south-eastern neighbours, through an opening there and that we need not be afraid of the opening of the East and the South-East. We should accept the challenges and, through a good economic exchange with our neighbours, also protect our own economy and thus combat unemployment. It must be noted that we owe our prosperity to this already opened up to the east and south, and therefore, I believe, we should also let our neighbouring countries participate in our prosperity, because good partners, economically strong partners are able to be also good economic partners and also strengthen the businesses here and are ultimately a guarantee for a solid labour market also in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e12905	Mr Donaauer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e12927	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! When this urgent question was put, I thought about how this debate will be held today. The introductory remarks in the urgent request are certainly interesting, but the headline you have formulated must be rejected with all determination. It clearly shows that you are hardly interested in a solution, but rather in things that are almost scandalizing and populism. It has been discussed in various ways in all the contributions to the debate. In fact, not too many real solutions to the problems identified were heard. However, it was interesting for me – and I stress this, Mrs Bundesminister – that you thanked the applicants. This proves that you know the problem, recognize that you are looking for a solution, and that you are not really shy about any discussion, including this one. This was also expressed very clearly in the answer to the urgent request, which really contained a lot of interesting for us. The other contributions to the debate have often shown only statistical figures and sometimes unnecessarily complimented them. The fact is: First, we have a high employment rate in Austria and second, a good economic development. The fact is, however, that there is a black job – unfortunately too much – and that it cannot be tolerated to a certain extent. Perhaps we all have to criticise ourselves and say: We have sometimes watched for a very long time! The development in this area does not come from yesterday or yesterday, since this development has been a long time, and I believe that our goal should be to focus very clearly on organized black work and to look for solutions. The main question for us as a responsibility is: What leads to blackwork? – Of course, this can and will also be profit-making. No question at all. However, I believe that there are a number of other reasons for this, which one must very well point out. There are many speakers today who have spoken about the fact that additional wage costs are too high and oppressive and much more. There must be a stop. That's not a question. I believe that all taxes are important, the question is whether they are correct. The question that arises in the future is as follows: If we take back some kind of tax – after all, why not? –, what do we do on the expenditure page? – A multi-debt of the state, ladies and gentlemen, can by no means be our goal! At this level, we cannot continue this discussion. The Minister of Finance said this morning that over the last ten years the labour factor has been charged with a tax burden of more than 7 percent. This shows very clearly that a tax reform is urgently necessary, and especially we from the Austrian People's Party can rightly and with some satisfaction point out that we have for some time been presenting really useful papers and are here on the best track. We hope that we can find a good solution with the government partner in this regard. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We all know that discharge is necessary. Another factor related to undeclared work is the economic situation of many citizens, the lack of purchasing power of entire industries. I refer, for example, to agriculture, where, in recent times, almost nothing has been purchased due to dramatic price cuts, because the money for it is not available, or to the poverty conference that took place in Salzburg and made it clear that 10.8 per cent of households earn less than 6 100 per month. That's really unfortunate. I am somewhat wrong when I pursue the discussion with him in the context of the adjustment of pensions and pensions, and I hear that, in general, one has met with a very realistic adjustment factor – I am glad to say – but that one exercises excessive restraint with regard to the increase in the compensatory allowance rates. I believe that these people, more than 300 000 in number, need improvement, an urgent improvement, no matter what group of society they come from. They are Austrian citizens, and we must recognise their difficult situation and help them. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course, the statistics of the poverty conference show that families with children, especially with several children, are also heavily affected. Progress on tax reform, i.e. family policy measures, has just been made to introduce and implement an enormous improvement in this area. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In order to make it easier to find legal work, this Federal Government has already taken the first and, as I believe, the right measures. There is no doubt that the commercial regulation has brought easier access to the practice of a business and thus a reduction in costs. The cost issue is not only in the tax and social sphere, but the cost question is very often also in the business field. Too long process duration, too high procedural costs – these are also stressful factors. With this trade regulation, the government has taken a very reasonable course. It was not easy, because there are very many different interests, but they could be coordinated, and I think that belongs very clearly to have been put out as a positive. Ladies and gentlemen! Work must contribute to the social system. We all have access, we all want and need benefits from this social system, and if these benefits of contributions do not come from the labour factor, I ask you: What do you want to cover all these achievements that we have standardized by law? – We have little room for manoeuvre, and that is why I believe that we have taken a right course with the contract regulations. Of course, there are also some weaknesses, not a question, but it was a very reasonable way, as the social and tax regulations have been agreed. The Black Labour Act, which is under discussion, has already been discussed by Mr Feuerstein; I do not need to comment on it anymore. I believe that sanctions are also to be expected in other areas, namely where social benefits are received and, incidentally, undeclared work is done. One has to say very clearly: Until here and no further step! Whoever violates laws cannot expect forbearance, no matter where he stands and what he does. We all need to ensure more correctness together. We also need better training, we need permanent training, we need a needs-oriented job placement. In all these decisions – and I really liked this, Mrs. Federal Minister – one should leave the church in the village. In this context, you have made a very clear reference to the assistance of the neighbourhood. Ladies and gentlemen! It is not in our interest to ban everything and everyone under control. We need a reasonable, argumentable tolerance in the interests of a reasonable economic development of our families, the citizens of our state and our economy in general. This statement, Mrs Minister, was a truly decent and good one, deserved our recognition and appreciation. Our aim must be to create legal work for as many citizens as possible through reasonable frameworks. This is what the citizens want, and I believe that policy is facing a huge challenge. Policy in Austria, politics in Europe – all of us are required, and we have not only to discuss these issues today and here, but we have to face up to this discussion every day and to work together to find reasonable, useful and applicable solutions.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e13026	Mr Dolinschek is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 9 minutes remaining speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e13047	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Blackwork is on the rise. In principle, this has been regretted by every previous speaker and by every previous speaker. However, the tax and tax burden is also increasing, and these two factors are inseparably linked. The costs for the Austrian families rise on the one hand through the cold progression. The wage tax revenue in 1989 was still 88 billion schilling. By 1997 it has increased to 183 billion schillings, a plus of 95 billion schillings, and we are going to exceed the 200 billion schillings limit this year. On the other hand, the Austrian population has been reduced by the two savings packages, as well as by increases in fees, taxes and tariffs, which are ultimately to be paid by net income. I just remember the increases in post and train, the health certificate fee was introduced, the prescription fees were increased a few times, the fees for garbage, water, wastewater, electricity and gas were increased, there is no more birth aid today, and the depreciation for the special expenses were reduced by half. Considering – and this has all been said – that an employee must work for a whole day or eight hours to pay an hour's work of a professional, whether this is a car mechanic or otherwise a craftsman, one has to find out: With the current tax system, ladies and gentlemen, you simply drive the Austrian population into black work. They do not support the state of affairs, and they are still promoting this black work, Mrs. Federal Minister. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We in Austria have achieved such an extent as to enable everyone to think about working a professional. You prefer to buy the material yourself and then let the corresponding work be carried out in the shadow economy. A large part, of course, is also covered by neighborhood aid. Of course, I completely exclude this from the blackwork, because it should continue to exist in the future. One would therefore like to use one's own authority to combat undeclared work. I wonder, How much staff is needed for this? Will new jobs be created? – Well, some are, but others would be better for me. How high are the costs for this staff, and does it even pay off? We already have too much administration – and administration is wasting tax money – and the administration is still unnecessarily bloated. What we need is a deregulation of the factor labour, a higher net income, because the difference between the gross income of a worker and what he netly obtains is simply too high. The employee becomes too expensive for the operation, but he deserves too little. What we need is to strengthen the purchasing power and improve the economic location. But less income and higher taxes and taxes also mean less purchasing power and less economic growth. Ladies and gentlemen of all couleurs! If you really want to limit the punch effectively, then lower the taxes!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e13106	Mr Leikam has also been mentioned. 6 minutes remaining speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e13127	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I will certainly not need the speaking time of 6 minutes. I wanted to make an actual correction on my own, however, to an item on the agenda which has already been completed, and that is why it is not possible. I therefore use this debate because the subject itself is well suited. We have once again seen how much the Federal Party observer of the Freeman is opposed to something being controlled in this country. However, one has a certain understanding of one’s position when one knows what customs prevail in the Freedom Party. There are, of course, a number of comments in this debate that cannot be left in the room. Mr Peter said that it was quite normal for some 10,000 of 40 000 hosts to have to tax practically and work black because they would otherwise have no chance of survival. It was practically an invitation to blackwork. [[Abg. May. Peter: An invitation to think!]] In this context, the following questions must be asked: How does the wage level look? I do not know any businessman who would volunteer only a schilling of wage increases to his employees. In these days, in these weeks and months, our trade unionists will once again fight for every big and every schilling; and it is a shame, colleague Peter – and that is why some actually cannot afford the high cost of working hours of professionals – if there are still workers today who do not even have 15 000 S net incomes. That's really a problem for these people, because they certainly can't pay for these professional lessons. So: When we discuss undeclared work, we should also involve the wage discussion. But I have spoken because I would like to make it clear that this morning, in his contribution to the development of tourism, Dr. Haider did not claim untruth for the first time and probably not for the last time absolutely. He claimed that in a farm on Katschberg a teacher, i.e. the employer, had to pay a penalty on the basis of a check by the labour inspector 42 000 S, because his apprentice had still been found with the work raiment after the time of service in the local. That's completely wrong. I informed myself at the labour inspectorate in Carinthia, as well as at the labour inspectorate in Salzburg. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that there has been no controls at all in a farm on the Katschberg since 1991, i.e. for seven years, and that there have been some cases before, smaller cases where penalties have been imposed between 1 000 and 3 000 S. [[Abg. Marizzi: Unheard!]] So: Today, Dr. Haider has once again said the untruth to support his arguments accordingly. So he lied here; I want to call it that.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e13179	Mr Gaugg is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 5 minutes remaining speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e13200	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would like to point out that what Mr Leikam has given of himself here is the most decisive thing. He knows everything, he can do everything, he's got everything under control, there's instant phone calls – like the KGB. I'll tell you something that you can question in the morning: Her Landtagsreiter Kollmann, a member of the ÖTK, who works as a labour market service director in Carinthia, has been sentenced to a fine of 5 000 S in 1996 because he has employed illegals. [[Abg. Leikam: How was the apprentice?]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: How was the apprentice?]] That's the reality with you! Why don't you ask? There you can ask tomorrow, that's your view of things! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: How was the apprentice?]] But now, Mr Kostelka, or should we warm up the old things? We can do that once too. [[Abg. Koppler: One has nothing to do with the other!]] Now on the urgent question, Mr Koppler; I am already referring to it. Your Minister of Social Affairs is indeed a positive person, a positive person, in itself; therefore, she should provide positive incentives for black-collaring work in this country – but not through constant controls, through the use of head-money hunters, because nothing else is it if you need additional staff again 184, causing 60 million schilling of personnel costs. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Scatter]] [[Abg. Dr. Krammer: Under the table he was sitting, the black worker from the shark, he hid himself!]] That's about what you got from the illegal workers when I'm right in memory of that. Put positive incentives instead of the use of top money hunters, and in your draft law, define once again very clearly, also legislably comprehensible what neighborhood aid is! In fact, it is lawyers who cannot begin with anything that recommends that you take back your draft law and redesign it. That is not how it can work, because it will not be held before the Constitutional Court. Mr Peter meant that 25 years ago the pussy had not yet been so marked. I think that even then, the differences were not as big as they were today. How is a person who earns 15,000 s a month – and if he has it, he is already happy – to survive if he has two children who may study both? – This is the socialist system. Mr Leikam made a self-esteem here at the speaker's desk, saying that 30 years of socialism allows working people to have not even 15,000 s. This is your form of politics! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I do not allow the domestic farmers to be criminalised in Austria; that is what is being thought of. Mrs. Minister! If the definition of neighbourhood aid is the way you have done it today, then this leads to criminalisation of all the house builders in this Republic. We will be able to resist it. [[Abg. Marizzi: Is the Princehorn the first "flat-tax" refugee?]] – You have to ask him what causes him to leave such a nice community. The fact is that the applicants for the urgent request of today also disregarded the demands of the Freedom Party to introduce photo identifications on the construction sites. This would have been one of the first measures to prevent illegal employment to a commercial level. They're criminalizing everything that's somehow related to neighborhood aid. I would like to know once again how this – now corrected – amount of 54.3 million schilling is composed. Is this the purely personnel costs, or is the actual effort involved, are the administrative costs involved? What's that amount? – This is an amount specified in your draft law, and I would therefore like to have an answer. To sum up, the draft law, as it stands today, is in itself a puss, as has already been stated in the urgent question. I would therefore strongly recommend that you take back this draft law, rethink it, rethink it, and then bring it back in again.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e13320	There is now no mention of this. That concludes the debate. We come to a vote, and I therefore ask the honourable Members to take the places. We shall come to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mrs Schaffenrath and others on tax deductibility of child care costs. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. 6. Point Report of the Economic and Social Committee on the Government Template (1274 of the Supplements): Federal Law amending the Patent Act 1970, the Patent Contract Introduction Act and the Model of Use Act (1458 of Supplements) 7. Point Report of the Economic and Social Committee on the Government Template (1156 of the Supplements): Federal Act amending the Trade Statistic Law 1995 (1459 of Supplements) 8. Point Government template: Protocol to the Madrid Agreement on the International Registration of Trademarks, adopted in Madrid on 27. June 1989 (1315 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e13394	We are now returning to the agenda. I call on points 6 to 8 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There is no wish for oral reporting. We are therefore entering the debate. The first speaker to speak was Mr Ing. Nut trees. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e13424	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! My contribution to the debate relates to this government template for the Federal Law, which amends the Patent Law 1970, the Patent Contract Introduction Act and the Model Law. This bill has one with most Austrian laws: It has reached a state through many ongoing, small changes in which an innovator no longer recognizes himself without the help of a patent lawyer in the rupture of the provisions. These patent lawyers now have to do very quick and, above all, good research for their clients. By selling the international patent information centre from Vienna to the European Patent Office, these patent lawyers are more and more immediately contacting the European Patent Office in Munich from the outset. In addition, this is possible online today. Austria has also acceded to the Convention on the Grant of European Patents. What does that mean? – There is a shift from national patent offices to the European Patent Office. Therefore, my criticism is that it is not crucial whether small adjustments to EU legislation are being made on a regular basis, as in this case, is crucial that the changes made by EU accession and further global developments are taken into account and that new laws are therefore created which give the Austrian institutions the opportunity to play an active part. However, the issue of the international patent information centre weakened the Austrian Patent Office, instead of strengthening it by adopting European agendas – a measure that will damage the Austrian innovation process instead of promoting it. As a consequence, there will be a development which will result in the surrender of the Austrian Patent Office to the European Patent Office – at least in the long term. But that would be fatal for the Austrian innovators. This would also be a great loss, yes, I would almost say, annihilation of the high-quality work of the outstanding experts in the Austrian Patent Office today. Mrs. Federal Minister! I would like to say something else, with the request to pass it on to your esteemed colleague, Minister for Economic Affairs. The patent and model protection laws have been merged. It was found and also suggested here by Minister Farnleitner that Austria would be one of the leading applicant countries in Europe if patent and model protection applications were to be compiled. The practical truth is that model protection in this form only has meaning in Austria – perhaps still weakened in Germany, but in addition, model protection is meaningless, especially in overseas. There is therefore no real protection for innovative Austrian model protection applications abroad. – We cannot therefore give our consent to this bill. The Federal Act, which is also under negotiation, which amends the Trade Statistic Law in 1995, brings such benefits, so we will agree with it. Finally, however, I would like to say a few words on the Government's draft Protocol to the Madrid Agreement on the International Registration of Trademarks, which was adopted in Madrid in June 1989 and Austria on 29 June 1989. ==References====External links== It is about the ratification of the protocol to which Austria is obliged. We will not oppose this, but we will give our consent. But in spite of this criticism, it should be noted that the protocol has already been signed by 1. It has entered into force on December 1995, but we are only now ratifying it. That is to say, we have for three years abandoned the benefits of this Protocol for Austria's trade mark applicants – for example, the possibility to obtain easier trade marks in countries that have only been accessible through separate national registrations, or the possibility of active design and participation within the framework of the Madrid Association's Assembly. We didn't do that! Of course, a rapid and efficient government cannot be spoken of in such a case. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e13467	Mr Dr. Drinkl, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 10 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e13489	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Patent applications are a good indicator of the innovative power of an economy. [[Abg. Ing. Nut trees: There are no in Austria!]] Mr Nußbaumer! We are not that bad compared to the EU countries. We're in the middle field anyway. [[Abg. Ing. Nutbaumer: I have just said that there is no protection for it!]] With approximately 400 invention applications per 1 million inhabitants per year, we are on the good, or not as good, depending on how you see it, sixth place. After all, we have 3 230 applications for invention. But I admit that we are behind Germany, Finland and Sweden. There are still Great Britain, France, Italy and Belgium behind us, which means that EU member states are also worthy of honor. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] The present amendment of the Patent Act, the Patent Contract Introduction Act and the Model of Use Act improves the existing possibilities for Austrian entrepreneurs and inventors. In addition to adaptations to changes to international contracts, this novelle also provides procedural simplifications, which, in particular, enable the Austrian Patent Office to improve efficiency. The inclusion in the law of the partial rights of the Patent Office, which has been regulated so far in a regulation, will also bring additional legal certainty to this organisation. But most important are those changes in the novel, which improve access to patent protection for Austrian inventors. This concerns in particular the possibility of a turn-off, which will also be possible in future from European and BCT applications, as well as the possibility of using the internal priority for the first time in Austria. These two possibilities are very important because patent applications are particularly important for small and medium-sized enterprises. The amendment also ensures that the dual protection system in Europe is further developed. This dual protection system, the presence of patents in accordance with the European procedure, as well as the respective national application and patent procedures, enables economic operators to choose whether they want to register in Europe or whether they want to do so in Austria. But especially for Austrian companies, the application to the Austrian Patent Office is important. After all, 80 percent of all Austrian inventors report their inventions on the national road. We are very likely to see a positive development. In the last five years, the number of applications from Austrian companies has increased by 6.5 percent at the Austrian Patent Office. We are quite proud of this trend. Mr Nußbaumer! I would like to point out that, as part of their patent talks, the Chambers of Commerce are likely to use patent lawyers who are making substantial progress in the preparations for Austrian inventors and thus make the examination process much easier at the Austrian Patent Office. Overall, I believe, the protection system in Europe, but above all also the Austrian protection law system, will be substantially improved by this novel, and we can therefore give our consent to this proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e13544	Mrs Ing. Langthaler. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e13565	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The patent law is a very dry matter for many. I consider them to be an incredibly exciting thing in the international field I would like to speak to, and especially with regard to various international environmental agreements. The previous speakers have mentioned it briefly, so I would like to address it very briefly. There has been a European Patent Office in Munich since 1978, as you all know. There is no doubt that many areas have moved from national to European level and will also be relocated further. The questions of restructuring and also the partial reduction of the Austrian Patent Office will certainly be discussed in the next few years. However, I would like to speak on another point. I would like to draw the attention of the few Members in the Chamber, who normally talk about environmental issues, to one point: What is to be decided here today is more or less the ratification of an agreement on trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights. The famous 1995 TRIPS agreement has been strongly criticised in the environmental debate and is still strongly rejected by almost all environmentalists worldwide. This is the wide range of biodiversity, but it is also the issue of the patent for life. I would like to remind all environmentalists, all of them, that a large convention was adopted at the Rio Conference in 1992, which has also ratified Austria, namely the Convention on the Protection of Species. A new strategy was adopted, namely the fact that biodiversity is national property and that the resources that can be economically exploitable due to biodiversity must also be shared with the country concerned. This is exactly the opposite approach that has not been in place until recently. There was the FAO agreement, Mr Federal Minister, the 1989 regulation, the FAO Undertaking, with exactly the opposite philosophy, saying that natural resources are actually common good. A pharmaceutical company, a gene group, a chemical group that drives into a country, whether Costa Rica, or Brazil, where a plant is extracted and a drug is produced from it, has ownership not only on that patent, but also, of course, on the subsequent profits, provided that it has previously been patented accordingly. This regulation was broken in the important Biodiversity Convention by saying that no, the countries, especially the developing countries, should benefit from their natural resources. At the same time, however, there were major trade liberalisation efforts. In 1995, the WTO Agreement and, at the same time, the TRIPS Agreement on intellectual property rights were concluded. Federal Minister! One thing would interest me because it always affects me in my work. In 1999, a revision under the WTO will be made to the TRIPS Agreement, and I would be interested in the Austrian position. The principle of the TRIPS agreement is diametrically different from that of the Biodiversity Convention, and there is also a strong dispute over it. If you or your experts look at the various publications on international patent law, you will notice that there are two completely contradictory regulations. They have the Biodiversity Convention, in which not only the protection of biodiversity, but above all the economic benefit that needs to be shared with the country, whether it be Brazil, or Costa Rica. They have the other principle under this TRIPS agreement, which is actually more about the privatisation of natural property and less about the protection of property. There are the famous examples of the Niem tree, but also of the Basmati journey, which is currently in discussion. An American company has filed a patent which, for example, would make it more difficult for the Indians to sell their Basmati rice under that name. I would just be interested: Is there any relevant information from your resort? – It will be discussed next year – it is clear – of this TRIPS agreement, which is to be decided here today. I'm sure I won't agree to this because I think it's really bad. I also do not think that anyone here in this House has been concerned about what this TRIPS agreement actually means. You are now EU Council President, and I assume that there should be a position for the revision of the TRIPS Agreement from the EU as well. I would be interested in your role as EU President of Economic Ministers, which represents Austria, but above all what position the European Union will take with regard to this revision next year. I also wonder if the legal discrepancy currently existing between these two international treaties will be corrected in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e13614	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Maier. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e13636	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The government template of a federal law, which amends the patent law, the patent contract introduction law and the utility model law, is in principle acceptable. This novelle has become necessary, it goes back to a desire of the economy, in particular because it regulates the services and intervention services in more detail. This is about § 58a of the Patent Act. Nevertheless, High House, one cannot still see this provision uncritically. The Patent Office is an authority in Austria and a legal person due to its partial jurisdiction. This partial capacity is limited and is derived from the law on the basis of the task catalogue. Nevertheless, from my point of view, there are still some questions and civil problems. Allow me to present this briefly: I am surprised that no mention has yet been made of delegating this area of equity into a capital company. I wonder if the liability schemes, which in particular meet management bodies – here the liability is based on the General Civil Code, according to § 1199 ABGB – are fortunately chosen. I wonder, What about the insolvency capacity of the partial patent office? I also wonder: Why is there no provision for a minimum liability capital? Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I therefore believe that the debate on patenting must continue on these issues. However, the debate must also be held from European point of view. We have national patents in the Member States, we have different regulations per Member State. As my previous speaker has already suggested, we have a European patent, which is a bundle patent, and the applicant announces the country in which the patent is to apply. The Munich Patent Office has around 90 000 applications annually. There is also the Community patent. This Community patent cannot be enforced at the moment. This is likely to be associated with language problems, administrative burdens and open legal issues, if one reads the Green Paper accordingly. For this is the basic question: We now have a single currency in Europe, but we have not yet managed to create a single system for protecting inventions. The Commission is therefore right to ask whether industrial legal protection should not be better handled by Community law than by an agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! From my point of view, a Community law would benefit the economy. That is why I am a little depressed when I consider the debate at the European level. Mr Drinkl of the ÖVP has still said that patents are very important for small and medium-sized enterprises. But the Members of the European People's Party have voted against the European Parliament or the Committee in the debate when it came to small and medium-sized enterprises when it came to facilitating this Community patent. The question was which official language should be submitted, it was the question of a 50 percent estate. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Over 80 percent!]] I must say that I was very surprised that the Members of the European People's Party could not follow the request of the Socialists. Federal Minister! I believe that today's debate must continue, that we must be able to speak with one voice at European level, especially when it comes to a global patent system in the context of transatlantic negotiations. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e13674	Mr Haigermoser is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e13696	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I will try to explain some of the key points of statistics in the short term. Ladies and gentlemen! You know exactly that the statistics as a whole are one of those enterprises – I say it – which make entrepreneurs in broad areas of white light, of course, without prejudice to the fact that statistics are necessary in the appropriate form. First of all, the positive message: We liberties agree to the amendment of this Trade Statist Law, Federal Minister, because it achieves an improvement in the current situation. This means that the draft regulation lays down that undertakings subject to the obligation to provide information, whose revenue or shipments are less than 50 million schillings per year, are exempt from the determination of the statistical value. That would be the positive message. That is what I have already said in the Committee. Secondly, I must say that we also agree with the Madrid agreement, because it brings benefits to Austrian brand applicants and is therefore a step in the right direction. As far as the positive message is concerned. The fact is, however, that, as regards the total statistical problem according to the Chamber of Commerce, the entrepreneurs of the "statistical forces" are in place. Federal Minister! However, you are assigned to the Federal Chancellor in your responsibility in the Federal Government and are responsible for not treating and implementing a unanimous motion for a resolution from July 1997 on the statistical burden offensive to date on the part of the Government. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: What Farnleitner could do, he presented here today!]] That means that Parliament is not interested in you, Minister of State. This government has taken a unanimous decision, and the government is not even sparse. She says it's none of my business. She's moving that away, into the bottom, deepest drawer. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: However, the Minister of Economic Affairs is not responsible for all statistics!]] Mr. Drinkl! You don't believe me now! But I have taken this from one of you not unknown magazine, namely the "chamber news of the Upper Austrian Chamber of Commerce", that is to say, Mr Kaun's leniency, which shows exactly that Parliament is being dealt with, as if it were the ones responsible in the government. Ladies and gentlemen! This should not be a self-confident Parliament! I don't understand, Mr. Drinkl, that you're just going to have a smile and you're saying, It's me. I've got my hands in my pants, and I don't care. Ladies and gentlemen! It is precisely these things that cause entrepreneurs to believe less and less. For how else could it be that on the one hand, as has been said, there is a call for increased costs and the effort for statistics and, on the other hand, that unanimous motions for resolutions, Mr Federal Minister, are not being implemented? I know that the Federal Chancellor is responsible for this, but I would ask you, before the end of this legislative period, to insist that at least plans on how to curb this statistical will come to the table. Federal Minister! It is also high time to look at the right at the Statistical Central Office. Some things have happened – in the positive – but it is not all in the clean. I therefore believe that it should not continue so that new statistical floods will be invented again and again and finally the traders and the entrepreneurs will have to pay the token. Finally, you promised us that you would like to work in the Intrastat area at European level before the end of the year. Now there would have been enough opportunity to act on the occasion of the EU Presidency and to limit this Intrastat problem to the fact that only the exporting economic operator will have to deliver these statistics and not the importers. This double track should be allowed to descend the Danube as soon as possible. You should use the last days of your Presidency in the EU to bring home at least a few small examples to reduce the flood of statistics.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e13744	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Peter. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e13766	Mr President. Federal Minister! The Liberals agree to the two government proposals and to the Convention for the Vote. A few words on the subject of patent office: The Patent Office has a long history, an indispensable archive, important employees and – how could it be otherwise – a great persistence too. The pace of time has passed the patent office here and there. Although reforms have begun, the computer has been introduced, the users of this patent office miss the necessary dynamics and impact they would like to have. The self-esteem of the office itself often dispels the view of the satisfaction of the customers. We have listened in broad areas and talked to people who have a lot to do with the Patent Office. Although these confirm absolute correctness, they feel that the duration of the search is too long and that there is a lack of service. I think that this is an occasion, Mr Federal Minister, on Austrian patent law as a whole, on its structures and, above all, on the issue of cooperation with the European Patent Office and, as Maier said, on the subject of Community patent. It is difficult to imagine that we have an economic and monetary union and go towards a political union with 15 national patent rights. It should be our task, especially during the Austrian Presidency, to give rise to the possibility of this Community patent. That does not mean that we will leave an Austrian patent office. Of course, we will not do that, but it will be part of a European structure and thus have a greater willingness to provide services. There will certainly not all applicants wish to have a Community patent; perhaps they only want a regional breakdown, and perhaps only in a few countries. That too is to be clarified. But the objective of all our efforts must be this Community patent, despite all the language problems that I do not know. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I should like to stress another idea that has been drawn up in recent days between the Austrian and the Russian Patent Offices on the Commission's suggestion for the great Europe. I think this is a very good idea. In Russia, which has all the economic problems in the world, there are a number of research institutes and a variety of individual inventors who have little opportunity to implement their inventions. The joint proposal of the Austrian and Russian Patent Offices provides for an invitation to the Austrian and European economies to acquire rights to these patents in the examination phase, in order to provide support to inventors up to the time when their patent is used and they receive license fees. I think it is not uninteresting for an Austrian company interested in a particular type of invention to acquire options for patent and licensing rights. A Russian inventor would already have the opportunity to continue working out his inventions with a monthly fee of about $1,000. I hope, Minister of State, that this initiative of the Austrian and Russian Patent Office will also be implemented in practice, because I think it is a partnership research funding that could be in the sense of the Russian inventors and the Austrian economy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e13821	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Merchant. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e13842	Mr President. Minister! High house! I would like to take advantage of the debate on the patent law as an opportunity to point out a particular circumstance, namely the problem of employee inventions. We are talking a lot about the importance of creativity, the promotion of innovation in our economic sectors and the promotion of research. We must be clear that workers play a very special role in this, and in particular that the question of employee inventions in this area must be solved in a reasonable way. It is quite clear that it is a question of how employee inventions are compensated. It should be noted that the rules for compensation for employees' inventions are very different and insufficient not only in Austria, but in principle in all EU countries. The problem is that, although there is in principle a right to obtain the invention of the employee, especially if it has not been directly part of the individual employee's task, it is very often the case that a person who works for sale for example and has experience on the basis of contact with customers or who is active in the production and has experience of the production process, without being directly responsible for inventing inventions, is inventing some of the employees' inventions. In this respect, the practice of compensation is weakly regulated, and I believe that, in my opinion, it would be a major motivation shift, a major innovation boost for the Austrian economy and a competitive advantage if one could better put creativity into play and use it better. In particular, it would be necessary to clarify the amount of the remuneration claim more clearly – the remuneration claim itself is regulated – and in particular to clarify the question of the enforceability of removals only through courts or also through arbitration committees, as is the case in Germany. I think arbitration committees are a better way of doing this, because we must take into account that the individual inventor is directly in a service relationship which he does not want to give up. It is therefore very difficult to face his employee before court. It is likely that solutions would be better by means of arbitration committees, and a longer limitation period would also be needed. At the beginning of my professional life, I myself had the opportunity to participate in the assessment of employee inventions. At that time it was about controls of forging hammers. It was quite typical that the servants claimed their claims because they had retired in the meantime and the limitation period had not yet expired. If they had not retired or had the limitation period expired, they would certainly not have asserted their claim – in the upright service relationship. That is why I believe that we in Europe - the Commission has made a number of proposals in this regard - must insist that there is a reasonable regulation, and that is reasonable in the sense that those servants who are not directly engaged in making inventions are also more motivated to inventions. I believe that this could generate a lot of energy, motivation and innovation in the sense of the staff, but also in the sense of our economy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e13886	Mr Magistrate has now been reported to speak. Gaßner. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e13907	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The modification of the trade statistical law in 1995 brings substantial reliefs, in particular for small and medium-sized enterprises, in the field of statistical reporting requirements. These reliefs are also the subject of the EU Presidency, which has set itself the objective of simplifying statistical reporting requirements in the implementation of the action plan to complete the internal market. The reference has already been made on the reduction of the threshold to 50 million for inputs and shipments of goods. Simplification of legislation will improve competitiveness and increase the potential for creating new jobs. The case of excessive administrative costs and over-bureaucratisation has already been heard several times by this House, and it is also widely justified. In the international comparison of location, for example, administrative requirements appear to be at the top of the list and constitute a main reason for negative decision-making of companies. In principle, the Austrian site is improving, especially by increasing productivity and the resulting decrease in unit labour costs, but the cost of government administration is higher than in the EU average. A study by the company Profaktor and the Technical University of Vienna shows a burden on Austrian companies by administering laws between 5,000 and 40 000 S per employee per year. This study also shows that small and medium-sized enterprises in particular are particularly affected. The smaller the operation, the higher the administrative costs per employee. However, particularly in these small enterprises, the number of employees has increased significantly in recent years, while in large enterprises it has fallen. Overall, the statistical survey only accounts for 2.2 percent of the total administrative costs, but this change in the law has made it a start for small and medium-sized enterprises and enterprises to minimise administrative constraints. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, we very much agree with this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e13943	Mr Farnleitner has now been reported to speak. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e13965	Mr President. High house! First of all, I would like to make a few observations on the subject of patenting and related legal instruments in the European internal market during the Austrian Presidency. ==References== September this year, dedicated to patenting a separate EU Internal Market Council and there, starting from the Community patent to the Madrid Protocol, deals with all open issues, including the important issues relating to the competitiveness of the European Economic Area compared to the most innovative economic area, namely the USA, and with what legal changes are necessary. I'll start with the second point. We have agreed that, in the so-called news protection period, we will have to eliminate European and Austrian disadvantages very quickly. This, ladies and gentlemen, is because, in the United States, an inventor may publish a news about, for example, the Internet or elsewhere, without losing the claim to the patent. However, if he publishes something in Austria or in the European Union, he loses the novelty and the purpose of the patent, which leads to the fact that in fact innovative and, above all, epoch-making inventors are just too insane to publish in Europe, but rather avoid the American states in order to secure themselves there about the publication of financially powerful companies, investors, and give up on Europe. This is the first priority. Second priority: In the debate on the Community patent, we have found that we have profound differences about the scope of protection, especially in two countries. Great Britain and the Netherlands are not prepared to recognise protection for what we call patterns of use in Austria. There is a trend in us today that many, especially small companies, do not use the lengthy, much harder testing procedures of the patent, but rather the shorter protection periods of the utility model, including the facilitated registration procedure. It would be quite reprehensible if countries such as Austria and Germany offered a European Community patent to use the model of use that is of great importance to innovation. We must therefore continue to discuss this. I believe that a worse level of protection for Austria's spirit of invention cannot be the result of a European regulation. With regard to the question raised by Mrs Langthaler, namely the TRIPS agreement in relation to others, such as the CBD, it is true that at European level there is no sensitivity in this direction, but rather that both agreements are supported and not competing. But I can only give you this as a state report. In the European area, it is still stated that: The language problem also plays an increasingly important role, because if all nine patent documents in as many European languages are essential to patentability, we will not be able to regulate them very quickly. Ladies and gentlemen! Some comments on the question of statistics: I would like to remind you that every European regulation that replaces the existing 15 national regulations is a progress in itself, because it separates each country, especially if more and more companies are operating in the internal market, 14 other rules. This does not mean, however, that the scheme must be complicated. Mr Haigermoser! In our presidency in the SLIM issue of programmes 1 to 4, we have maintained that a report on what this has saved individual entrepreneurs will soon be presented by the Commission, which of course we will be happy to make available. The pressure remains open here. However, what we need to see with Eurostat, Intrastat on a daily basis, is that, in fact, fewer and fewer countries are ready to abandon the previous level of coverage. Therefore, in my area – and you will soon see that in my decisions on production statistics in Austria – we will reduce the statistical scope nationally. However, I cannot refer to other statistics that do not fall within my domain. In the field of production statistics, for example, if we reduce the level of coverage from 240 000 companies to 40 000 – I have signed such a regulation today – if we go back to 4,000 companies in other areas, this is a real relief for small businesses, which will also have an impact. We will also make this known separately as soon as it enters into force. On the question of inventions in the company, I would offer that we should in due course make a survey together with representatives of the Patent Office and the Ministry of Economic Affairs so that we can deal with the open questions. A final comment to the Patent Office, also in the direction of Mr Maier: I think it makes little sense to extract parts of the Patent Office into own capital companies. The patent office per se brings more than it costs. I believe that it would be a great temptation to create the appropriate conditions for a customer-oriented, but also very profit-oriented, institution at competitive prices through the independence of the Patent Office. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e14024	Thank you very much, Minister of State. No one has been reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. A final word will not be desired by the rapporteur. We are therefore immediately entering the voting procedure, and I would ask you to take up the respective places. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1274 of the supplements. In the event of your consent to this draft law, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. In the case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign at third reading. – This too is the majority. I note, therefore, that the draft law was adopted at third reading. We shall also vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1156 of the Supplements. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. We shall therefore come to the third reading immediately. In the event that you wish to agree to the draft law at third reading, I would ask you to give an appropriate sign. – This is also done by the majority. I note, therefore, that the draft law was adopted at third reading. I shall also vote on the approval of the Protocol to the Madrid Agreement on the International Registration of Trademarks in 1315 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who would like to give their consent here to give a corresponding sign. – This is done by the majority. Approval shall be granted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the French and Spanish versions of the Agreement in accordance with Article 49. 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act must be made known by the fact that they are available for public consultation in the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs, in the Industrial Protection Unit. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the majority. Accepted. 9. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the report of the Standing Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors in accordance with § 32e para. 4 GOG to examine illegal transactions related to approval and partial construction (Wanne Stainach, Sallaberger Bridge) of the "End-Trace" and the resulting financial burdens of the federal government; hopeless charges against citizens who have resisted these illegal transactions (1460 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e14132	I'm calling 9. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Apfelbeck has spoken. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e14160	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! As chairman of the Standing Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors, I note that this Subcommittee has not been able to carry out its control in any way. It was not possible for this committee to carry out a real audit in the sense of control. Ladies and gentlemen! The Court of Auditors is Parliament's assistant body, and by setting up this Standing Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors, this Parliament itself takes over this control for it a particular subject of examination. This also means, of course, that those control possibilities which the Court of Auditors has to bear must also be in place with this subcommittee, such as those provided for in Sections 2 (1), 3 and 4 of the Court of Auditors' Act. The fact that you, ladies and gentlemen of this subcommittee, were also of my opinion is clear from the fact that, in the first committee on procurement, you decided unanimously on the request for a dossier. At that time you were fully aware of your rights and tasks. But then the chief guardian of democracy has intervened here in the House and declared that this committee should only require reports from the audited bodies and not a file template. . I cannot see this from the Rules of Procedure, because I think it is necessary to distinguish between a subcommittee which can be set up with each committee, including a committee of the Court of Auditors, and the Standing Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors, which must also be given a special position, Mr Wurmitzer. Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! It is clear to me that you have recognized too late the rights you have granted to the Member of the opposition with the creation of this § 32e. You are now trying afterwards to fix this by explaining the Rules of Procedure the way you need them. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and SPÖ, you are "castrating" yourself by refusing to load certain persons by, because you are still in this house – I emphasize the word "still"! . have the majority of people who want to make requests that you only have a report from the audited. You miss yourself a fig leaf, but the voters will certainly take it away from you! And on the other hand, neither a new party program nor a beautiful mesher will help you! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] As chairman of this Standing Subcommittee, I note once again that this committee was unable to fulfil its task, since those who were politically responsible for this decade-long disaster were not allowed to be questioned, such as, for example, the head of state, Dr Josef Krainer, as former road builder, Mrs Klasnic, also as a former road builder, Mr. Federal Minister Schü Schüssel as the former Minister of Economic Affairs, Mr. Federal Chancellor Climate as the former Minister of Finance, Mr. EU Commissioner Fischler as the former Federal Minister for Agriculture and Forestry. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: ÖVP!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: ÖVP too!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: ÖVP again!]] This list is not complete, but it is possible to read the names in the report by Mr Wabl, Mr Grollitsch and Mr Smolle. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: He's wrong!]] Ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP! They have not even allowed the environmental lawyer of the Styria and the Volksanwälter Korosec to be invited. That's how you deal with the right to control. That's how you take your duties so seriously. This is your citizens' proximity! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Finally, one example is to see how seriously this committee has been taken: On the questions raised by the Members of the Committee, Mr Hirschmann and Mr Wielinger refused to answer. The official of the Styrian state government said that the Committee was not at all concerned. And the reply of the Council of State said: Now we're going home again over the Semmering and going to rule. – Said it, got up and wanted to leave the committee. That's the Styrian custom! [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Then he came again!]] [[Abg. Wurmitzer: A steirer too!]] A letter from the President to the Head of State has not been given to me as committee chairman, but it is very likely that the SPÖ-deputy herbs, who then received the reply from me in the committee. This is precisely the parliamentary custom, ladies and gentlemen, so is your living democracy!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e14283	Mr Kröll is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 12 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e14304	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The Ennsnah track, an infinite story – that's how you could name it. Even today's debates on applications showed that this issue was not used by the opposition in the sense of a solution to the problem, but for a long-term discussion in the public and for preventing and delaying better transport solutions in the Innstal and for the people in the Ennstal, while we are primarily concerned with the people concerned. Speakings, contributions and press releases such as those of Mrs Applebeck and Mr Wabl and Mr Smolle, or Mrs Schmidt, today, confirm this acceptance very impressively. There have been nine meetings in this subcommittee since February. I was very happy to have worked in this committee and spent a lot of hours there, but it was also interesting to see how seriously the solution and the question is being worked on and how relevant it should be. At least 22 people were questioned – one should not therefore pretend to have been rejected –: active politicians in the country, the federal government, officials, experts and many others. Water law, nature protection, which is regulated by the country's decision, but also EU procedures, constructions – I am addressing the tub of Stalinach, the total street of Stalinach–Liezen –, damage to demonstrators and much more were the subject and content of the consultations. But it was also about the rule of law and democracy. There were hours of debate, information and information, taking into account the right of opposition to questioning, the right to draw up this subject in a subcommittee. But we also had to experience Tirads and hourly hearings, which were far away from a serious Enlightenment and had very little to do with the real thing. Finally, the final report for the House was drawn up in good time, which was decided by the government parties. The opposition has written a minority report to which my colleagues will address in detail. My speaking time is not enough, and I would also like to focus on another point in my speech. If you have experienced Mr Wabl live at the many meetings of the Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors, Mr Smolle, you have not been there from the very beginning, as he has qualified recognized officials and experts such as Dr. Schurl and the State Director and University Professor Dr. Wielinger to name only these two, how he raised allegations against them and arranged for them any competence, then you must already ask what Mr Wabl was about. At the last meeting – and we have to talk about it again – we had to let Members please us that Mr Wabl compares us, whom we see differently from him, with the Nazis. I can only understand, therefore, that Mr Brix really rejected this allegation at the time. I also point them back to the sharpest. We are not Nazis and have nothing to do with them! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] It is also not a minority right that, if they are different, the majority should be associated with Nazis. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: The Wabl has already hanged the Nazi flag in Parliament!]] It is also these comparisons that do not make the woes of this morning about the withdrawal of control rights, about the danger of democracy in a strange light and the credibility of the country too great. The summit, however, is – and one feels offended by it – that one must be called Nazi by a colleague who has been in the house for so long and has already hanged another flag. I have the impression – and it has been partly proved – that Mr Wabl, in particular, was not about solving the problem and dealing with it, but with the public. If a few weeks ago I had the opinion that he was rowing around his body for the next election, it is certainly about drawing attention to a strong departure from Parliament today. However, my colleagues of the People's Party and I are concerned about the preservation of nature, including the animal world, but above all about the people, about the people concerned in Stalinach, Wörschach, Weißenbach and Liezen and even in the Ennstal. Since the 1970s, the population in the area of Stalinach-Liezen has been waiting for a corresponding solution with a large-scale drive of the villages of Stalinach, Wörschach, Weißenbach and Liezen regarding the B 146 from the Trautenfel crossing to the A 9 Pyhrn motorway Selzthal-Kreuz. This was originally planned as S 8, was then returned to search for a compromise with the farmers, with the greens and other activists. And since then it's about the Ennsnahe track. Ladies and gentlemen! People still suffer from the traffic load of 14 200 to 21 400 vehicles daily. This is a great burden, which has not become smaller, on the contrary, the trend is continuing to rise. Noise, sleep disturbances, aggressiveness, increased risk of accident – many accidents are detectable in statistics – are the result. The situation is particularly tragic for the children. Disability in road crossings, especially for elderly or disabled people, is a major problem for those who are offended. The entire habitat of these people is devalued by this, and they have the feeling of being second-class citizens. You also have to fight with difficulties when driving to the workplace and when shopping or using services – you think of a trip to read to a specialist doctor. All of these are examples of how the population suffers. – And in addition, it also means a massive devaluation of the life and economic location of Stalinach and the surrounding area. The suffering-tested population has a right not only to consider how to delay the project of a transport solution using all possible political and legal authorities and to prevent this from being seen in the example of Ennsnahe Trase – especially at the address of colleagues Wabl and his Green Group – but it rightly expects us, the people's representatives, to do everything – that is, from politics – so that it can finally be built. Only by this is the population really served and helped. In the main five municipalities concerned, the population was surveyed in a population survey directly to the Ennsnaher Tresse in 1993 and 1994 and their results were included in the opinion-forming process. This was originally a proposal from the Greens. Since the outcome has been known – as the people have thought about it, voted and expressed their opinion – this is no longer the result of democratic will-building in the Greens. I have to remind you of the results, which are detailed in the report on page 5: 27. November, Pürgg-Trautenfels: 712 persons entitled to vote, 39 percent of them, 61 percent of them for the track. 14. November 1993, Stalinach, the municipality concerned: 1,636 persons entitled to vote, 71 percent of them, 94 percent of them for the track. Wörschach: 906 persons entitled to vote, 71 percent of them, 86 percent of them for the track. Weißenbach bei Liezen: 898 persons entitled to vote, 52 percent of them, 56 percent of them. Finally, the capital city of Liezen: 5,250 eligible members, 60 percent of them, 65 percent of them. On average, 72 per cent of all citizens surveyed in these five municipalities are clear about the decision in favour of this road construction. For the main municipality of Stalinach or its parish residents, a solution with a southern passage of the village seems to be identified. The state government of Styria, with Mrs. Klasnic and the Transport Officer, State Councillor Ressel, wants to build a national road at the expense of the country around 130 million Schilling as a detour of Stalinach. This is very welcome! According to the Landesrat Ressel, the land is largely replaced and the population is involved in the project. High house! This could help, in a first step, the stainac population that is most affected. I am pleased that the stainac detour in the route now in hand will also agree to the entire opposition and do everything to ensure that it is actually implemented. But this is only a small part of a solution. It is clear to us from the People's Party that it is also necessary to implement the planned and ordered route as quickly as possible until integration into the Pyhrn motorway near Selzthal. While yesterday the councillor of the Greens from Wörschach, Mrs Barbara Stangel, announced new bitter resistance to any continuation of the road buildings – now again! – let us work for the first time to help people in Stalinach and, as soon as possible, to help all those concerned in the Innstal. [[Abg. Wabl: Read the article correctly, my colleague.]] [[Abg. Wabl: Read the article correctly, Mr. Cot!]] That is why we also support the efforts of the Styrian government and the Federal Government to build the ordered Ennsnahe Trasses quickly, and also ensure a rapid completion of the pending or pending legal permits. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we are also for the rule of law and democracy, we are also for nature and also for the Wagel King and for other birds. But even more counts for us the person who has to live there daily with these unsustainable conditions! That's the big difference! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Wattelkönig and human beings are not worth much to us on this issue. Ladies and gentlemen! That is why we will be happy to agree to this majority report by the government groups of ÖVP and SPÖ. We believe that this report will make a positive contribution to the construction of the roadless. I conclude by quoting from the 1416 report of the Supplements, page 13, point 1 of the Opinion: "This region is a less favoured region in terms of transport infrastructure, particularly at the expense of the people living there and the regional economy. A study in Europe's regional comparison has shown that this region is located next to Galicia's traffic infrastructure in the last quarter." For us, man has absolute priority! Therefore, as with Mr Smolle, it does not say for us, "Back to the start!", but "Sudden action helps people!" The words must finally follow actions!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e14381	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Barmüller. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e14403	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is only possible to agree to Parliament's Kröll in a wide range of areas. It is true that there is a traffic problem in the Ennstal, Mr Lukasch! It is also true, however, that in the Ennstal area, especially by the mayors responsible for it, the spatial order has not been drawn up in such a way that we are not constantly confronted with traffic problems despite new buildings. However, the Subcommittee of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, Mr Kröll, did not have to deal with the question of whether this region would be disadvantaged by transport policy, or whether the Styrian Government, together with the Federal Government, did not reach a solution for more than 20 years, but it was only to clarify the question of how to proceed under this procedure and whether there had been illegalities in the context of the procedure for the end-of-life trajectory. Maybe people – because you say it's about people – have they been robbed without the legal basis of their private property, which is supposed to be so important to the ÖVP? And I'll tell you: Yes! It was not only people, but also those people who were important to you, namely the farmers who took away the land and land without having a legal basis for it. Deputies! If the summaries of the government groups can be read under point 7: "The authorities tried to carry out the procedures under the laws. I must say to you: Well, I hope so! I would like to hope that the authorities in Austria are trying, at least trying to do so - that does not mean whether they have succeeded - to exercise the administration under the laws. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lukesch]] That must be the case, you can already read in Article 18 of our Constitution. But that you also have the "snowing" here to write in that flat-rate accusations of the illegality of any basis, and thus to the unobtrusive reader, who wants to predominate unobtrusive reader, it was all right here, is a very conscious error, and you know that too! Let us go again to the question of expropriations, Mr Deputies. They say it's about people in the End Valley. I ask you: What is this expropriation that should have been carried out in the first instance by the Styrian state government, but for political reasons, let us say, "unfitness" – since it could not be demanded by the head of state Krainer to expropriate farmers in the Ennstal who have done nothing – has been immediately passed on to the Ministry of Economic Affairs? – This is not the case with Mr Farnleitner, but with his predecessor. That this case has been postponed to the federal level and that farmers in the Ennstal have been expropriated without having a legal basis, and through this evolution from the state level to the federal level has also deprived of their vocational authority and has immediately referred it to the highest courts: How do you think, Mr. Deputies? Do you think this is a way of dealing with people? Is that the protection you prefer in the Ennstal that you rob farmers and farmers of their property, land and land without any legal basis? [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] Deputies! In addition, they deceive that it was this illegal procedure of the politically responsible – and that is the ÖVP, partly also the SPÖ, but it is primarily the ÖVP – which has led to a blatant hardening of the situation – which is also logical: No one should like to see public authorities and politicians intervene in private property in this country without any legal basis! I would very much like to recall the discussions on rental rights here in the house, which have rightly been noted by your group, that the right to rent is, in fact, a cold expropriation for homeowners. There are sometimes different political opinions on the agenda, and they are being carried out in this way. But that, when it comes to carrying out road construction in the Ennstal, you are double-measured and people, although you do not have a legal basis, take away grounds and grounds; that, if the Committee finds out that officials have acted on instructions, that officials in the Ministry of Economic Affairs have warned and said that there would be no legal basis for expropriation, that opposition would be required to bring those persons to committee, in order to be able to know who gave this political direction, but you, the ÖVP delegates, with the votes of the SPÖ delegates, prevent this charge and we have not been able to clarify the question, Commissioner Lucisch, who has given this illegal instruction to rob people of their reason and soil for political reasons, you have to answer! [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: You are a victim of your opposition role!]] [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: You know everything better!]] That doesn't give a nice light to control in this house, but that's cover-up! You cover that! They don't want political calculation to show that. Ladies and gentlemen! Now you have loaded and heard 22 people – admittedly, that's true. But, Mr Kröll, what is the point of loading people into a matter that is quite interesting, but at the crucial point, that is, where it is a matter of establishing responsibility, not to load those who could provide information? By the way, this was also in conformity with business rules, because you have decided by a majority not to load these persons. There is no point in saying that the majority must decide on this. But that you are emptying the decision-making possibilities of a control body in such a way that you do not bring people who can't say anything about it before the committee, but those who could say something about it, and then say that you've heard all of this, and it's just not going to happen, that's Hohn! This is white cock, and we reject that vehemently! I say this to you, above all, because, when people in the Innstal valley – those people who supposedly want to protect you – opposed that they were taken away from them without a legal basis, and when they occupied the construction sites, it was subsequently the Republic of Austria who complained about the financial procuratorship students, students, farmers, namely, for disputes over hundreds of thousands of schillings to intimidate them. In this respect too, the Committee has made it clear, Mr Lucisch... [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: compensation! That's why it went!]] That was intimidation, and you know it too! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lukesch.]] Mr Lukesch! Stop seeing this exclusively party-politically! How would you react if you were to take away your own ground and ground for road construction without having a legal basis for it? It may be necessary, in the interests of the people and in the interests of the Community, Mr Kröll, to carry out expropriation – and there is a legal basis for this measure too – but private property is rightly protected, and there are, rightly, very restrictive possibilities to expropriate someone. But that one then in a thoughtless legal interpretation... [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Think about the meaning of words!]] Mr Lukesch! I have been thinking about the importance of words since I was sitting in this subcommittee, and I am telling you that I no longer know the Council for how to make it clear to the people of Austria that there is still parliamentary control in this country. I feel it is a pity that you want to withdraw to a formal position and not acknowledge that the action of the state which has rightly made the citizens in the Innstal valley is illegal. I think it simply irresponsible for you to complain in rental law that private property is restricted, but on the other hand, I do not find a word of criticism of expropriation without legal basis. That's theft in my eyes! That's normal theft! [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: That's wrong what you say! Completely wrong!]] One cannot simply rob people of their rights and then not even have the political'snow' in a committee, Mr Lucisch, to say: Who of our people did that? And if someone has done it and it comes out, then there must be consequences from it! But They do not allow this clarification, and that is the accusation that makes you the whole opposition, and that is why this minority report is so extensive. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: He's wrong!]] [[Abg. Wormitzer: He's wrong!]] No, he's not wrong, deputies, and you know that. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: One-sided!]] Then tell me an expropriation decision that remains. Mr Wurmitzer! Tell me a certificate of expropriation that remains. [[Abg. Wormitzer: He's still wrong!]] You know that the Supreme Courts have removed these, and so on, and that we are immediately facing a next problem, namely the money that has already been transferred and is still "circling" on some private accounts, although the expropriations have been abolished. But, Mr Lukesch, I come back to the fact that there has been an blatant escalation in the Ennstal, that, for political reasons, one simply wanted to push through something from the state without having the legal basis for it. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Wrong!]] And that's the pretext... [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: That is exactly what is wrong, Mr. Deputies!]] Mr Lukesch! Is it possible to expropriate reasons which are not directly necessary for road construction due to nature conservation? Is that possible? Then say yes, if that is possible! But you cannot say yes, because it is not possible and because you have done exactly that! [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Don't get upset!]] This is the accusation that you have to make in this context: They took away cold private property from the people out of political culprits, and that they had defended themselves was their right. That was her right! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch and Abg. Wormitzer:Falsch! Wrong!]] Now let me say something to you, Mr Deputies: In my view, it is peculiar for Mrs Klasnic to send a letter to the President on the last day before the end of the committee, after he had already sent her the second letter, because it was from the national politicians – specifically: Hirschmann – and from Mr Wielinger, the highest national official in Styria, it was not possible to obtain information on the nature conservation procedure in a cooperative manner in the Committee. That wasn't necessary. You refused. You know that. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Is Nature Conservation State matter or federal matter?]] Mr Lukesch! Nature conservation is an undisputed matter of land, and you know that the question of nature conservation, regardless of the legal situation of competence, is an essential question for the clarification of the questions we had to answer in this committee. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Is he state-owned or is he federal?]] Mr Lukesch! If the Committee refuses to clarify the questions, which they would not have been allowed to answer, then this is a refusal to cooperate and the elimination of parliamentary control, which has not been requested from your side, but in view of which you have been sitting there and have said: [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: That's not a question!]] Yeah, that's how we do it, and that's how we let it go. In this way we come to the peculiar situation in the Ennstal, that there is a nature reserve there, which the Styrian state government itself has informed Brussels about – it has been said: [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: But much later!]] Natura 2000 area, Birds Directive directly applicable – but still granted derogations, although there are decisions at European level that clearly state that nature reserve and road construction are incompatible. Now I'm telling you: As long as you do not have the political courage to suggest such blasphemy from the side of the administration, regardless of which party they come from, you undermine any parliamentary control in that country. But then you no longer have the right to hold back the others who do. Because you do the same when it suits you, as in this case! That, ladies and gentlemen, is worthy of relief. That is why we also want this Committee report to be referred back to the Court of Auditors so that we can clarify the few, but essential, issues that are still open there. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lukesch.]] If that is not possible, then all the meetings of this subcommittee were for nothing. They were not free, but they were for nothing, Mr Deputies, and we should not let that be said. We should not let ourselves be told that these events here in the house are actually "for the fish". You should not let that be said, we must not let it be said, because we are thus undermining the credibility of democratic and parliamentary bodies in this country, and we must not allow that to happen. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: No, they are for the people, for the people of Stalinach, who are rolled down by traffic!]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e14694	Mr Brix is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e14715	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Wabl: Brix, no tricks!]] I would like to point out that, in order for your mares to end, the government parties – I speak here first for my party, but I believe that both are the same – are very likely to be on the ground of the rule of law and are very likely to be interested in the control of the things that are going on in Austria. – and we will continue to contribute to maintaining parliamentary control. [[Abg. Wabl: Yes, interested! Interested!]] [[Abg. Smolle: And why not in this case? Why not in this case?]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! But here you have to find out what you mean by the word "control". From the very beginning, the spirits have separated. On the one hand, those who were very likely to check the processes in the construction of the Ennsnahen Treasse, but on the other hand, were also in favour of the construction of this road with the Ennsnahe Trasse project, and on the other hand, those who, in fact, only proposed control in order to change political small money in the end, so that this route could not be built. This is the difference between these two controls. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Yes!]] Mr Kröll has presented this even more clearly before. I have learned from him for the first time – I don't know in which paper it was said – that church councillors of the Greens have already announced further resistance against the Ennsnahe Tresasse. It's a difference to ask: What do we want? What do we want to control? Ladies and gentlemen! High house! One thing I am particularly sad about is that we are trying to play the environment against the people. It is interesting that, for example, rare animal species, such as the quail king mentioned today, must be compared in order to say: You have to protect it all, but people don't care about us. There can't be built a detour! [[Abg. Smolle: That's not the point!]] [[Abg. Wabl: This is dark...!]] [[Abg. May. Barmüller:... is a district skier!]] Even though Mr Wabl and the Greens say that they are for this road anyway, they say in other places and in other words always again, they are not so much for the road, because they can mobilize their clients there and bind them more to themselves. – That’s the real reason! It was said today who these demonstrators are. I'm just saying, I look at this very critically and I wonder: Is it any good that an action was initiated? I'm just saying, I consider this very critical. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: Really?]] For me personally, the right of demonstration is a great sanctuary, with which one should deal with very carefully. But one should at least have the courage to say who these demonstrators were. These were first and foremost citizens who are not at home in the Ennstal but who have been brought from other parts of Austria and who then protested, tied up and demonstrated themselves! [[Abg. Wabl: I'm from the South Styria! There's no home license to be allowed to demonstrate!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Barmüller.]] Mr Barmüller! If it had been as you said, then the result of the vote should have looked different. You probably didn't pay attention and you didn't hear what Mr Kröll said here. He has read about the outcome of the vote in the municipalities. I don't have it here now, I just got it in my head: About 70 percent of the citizens in the affected communities have voted in favour of the Ennsnahe Treasse, which is a very clear majority. So it could not have been that the majority wanted to demonstrate on the other hand! [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] Two more comments on the Committee's proceedings. When I think about how it was tried to manipulate, I realize that, for example, one of the loaded ones suggests that a certain Dr. Hauser was. We didn't know him. [[Abg. Wabl: But you rejected him!]] We then learned that he is a civil lawyer. That is why we said: He has nothing to do with this, so we reject him. [[Abg. Wabl: You didn't know him, but you rejected him!]] Then the Green Group said: Then he'll just be a group expert. So he was a political expert in the committee. And Mr Wabl then said: If he is a political expert in the committee, he gets money for it, so he also has to talk, he can't get money and just sit down and talk nothing. – And with vehemence he was forced to speak as an expert. When we said that this was not the case in the Rules of Procedure, we were put down as the evil ones who rejected it. Another point concerning the liberties and their behaviour in today's debate: Mr Stadler, in particular, said that he was never noticed by Mr Brix. – I can only say: It is better for me not to be noticed at all than to be noticed by Mr Stadler, who is particularly aware of the fact that he is a politician who simply discriminates against people, defames them and shows them contempt for his human beings. It's really better not to notice than to notice him. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Especially the liberals have said proudly in the preliminary meeting: We already have a report. Talk to us! And Mr Grollitsch was sitting there and always waving his report. [[Abg. Aumayr: You have not submitted one!]] But when we said: Please, please show us the report, let us read the report!, it has turned out... [[Abg. Aumayr: You didn't have one at all!]] But I did not say that we had one in our hands either. I said we didn't have one in our hands. But we didn't have an empty paper to wake up either. We were not at all so hot that we would have watched, as Mr Grollitsch did with this report. – In fact, the liberals have also seamlessly connected to the others on this occasion and have tried to switch on this wave of opposition mainly political small money. In conclusion: My group and I, too, were not satisfied with the appearance of the Council of State Hirschmann, which I would like to say at this point, and all those who have said are right: State Councillor Hirschmann has not behaved in any way democratically friendly. This is not the way to deal with Parliament, so we do not deal with the representation of the people. And just as Mrs Landeshuppmann Klasnic deals with Parliament, it is not possible to deal with him at all; for it is certainly outrageous and it is to be refused that a letter will only arrive a day before the debate, only after he has been engendered twice by the President of the National Council. This must be said at the address of the Styria. There are certainly some things that have changed, because we simply can't deal with them! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Aumayr: We have not yet received this letter, Mr Colleague.]] So far, we Socialists have always pursued a principle of creating a healthy environment in which people can live. That is why we know very well that a healthy environment also includes a reduction in noise and transport pollution. And that is why we know that it is necessary to build this road: Firstly, so that people in this region can live healthier, and secondly, to create jobs for the economy there. . For these two reasons, we will also vote in favour of this report.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e14962	Mr Wabl has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e14984	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! When party members of the SPÖ and party members of the ÖVP, the Christian-Social Party, come to the speaker's desk here and say that they are primarily about human protection and only in the second line about the environment, about the Wagel King and about nature, I wonder: What have my dear friends of social democracy been discussing in their future workshop with Josef Cap and the others over the past 15 years? [[Abg. Brix: I was never there!]] What have they discussed there in connection with the questions of ecology and economy? Mr Kröll! What did you talk about at the Krainer House in Graz with people like Hirschmann, Schoeller and others when you were today – in 1998! – are still trying the opposite of ecology and economy, in the sense of human protection?- Oh, my God! Mr Kröll! What to Discuss You with Mr. Schüssel? What are you discussing with Mr Khol if you still have not understood that nature does not need you, but you need nature to live and survive?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Kröll: Man also lives in nature!]] – You still have not understood that economy is part of ecology. [[Calls and calls between Dr Petrovic and Kröll.]] An economy that believes that these two terms are a contrast is not an economy, but a plump of exploitation of nature, a plump of profit maximation at the expense of the later generations and ultimately a plump of exploitation of the people. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] They always come with the argument: There are people who are tortured and tortured by the noise. - We all know that. But why are they going to? – Because You have for decades allowed a transport policy that has caused exactly the conditions you are complaining about! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What was this transport policy in the last five, ten or 20 years? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Headmaster.]] Mr Koppler! They have demonstrated in Hainburg and explained that it is about man and not about nature. You have also demonstrated in Zwentendorf where you explained that it is about jobs and not about these "ecological spinteries". Why do you want to deliver this "conceit debate" to the next millennium? Why can't you even think about what the problem is? [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Koppler and Mr Kröll.]] Mr Kröll! Since April, since the first meetings, I have been trying to make it clear to you that we are discussing two different things here. Mr Barmüller has also explained this to you. One thing is transport policy; for these you have and unfortunately you still have a majority. But the other thing is that you believe because you have the majority in the Styria and in this House to be able to take legal principles with feet and ignore private property if you want to enforce your political will. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: We don't!]] You think you're legitimate. We – Mr Wurmitzer, Mr Lukesch and others – have also discussed the question of democracy for a long time. It is of course true that in a democracy the majority determines the law of action. Of course! We have nothing against it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kröll.]] – Mr Kröll, take Please note that the majority is the "movement law"! It cannot be, however, that, because a majority has a political will, those laws which have been passed by this people's representation here and by that people's representation in the Styrian Landtag, are being trampled on and interpreted in such a way that you can enforce your political will, although the Supreme Court, the Administrative Court and the Constitutional Court have explained to you that this was illegal. I can, like Mr Barmüller and colleagues from the Freedom Party, list you in a minute's terms, how you have bended the right, how you have disregarded the laws, and how you have simply deprived the farmers of their property within the meaning of your false transport policy! Even if you have a majority, it is. [[Congratulation with the Greens, the Liberal Forum and the Abg. Young.]] [[Abg. Kröll: The Supreme Court also found that the prescribed trail was on the right and is still on the right today!]] Mr Kröll! Only because the regulation is right can you not conclude that everything that officials do on behalf of the regulation is right! It can't be that if the Minister of Economic Affairs has a regulation in respect of a trajectory, then on the ground to enforce this trajectory, the rule of law will be ignored by your officials, who will influence you... – Mr Luke, it is unfortunately so. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: That was not the case either! It wasn't like that! That's what you're talking about.]] Mr Lukesch! You even admit, in your majority report, what an immense process it was, but beautify it. Mr Lukesch! They say: "It was not possible to establish objectively in the context of the nature conservation authorisation." – You have written this in your majority report. Imagine the following: There is a law on nature conservation which lays down that a road may then pass through a nature reserve if there is no reasonable solution in another area, in an area not protected by nature. It's in the Nature Conservation Act. And what was the course of the Styrian government? – This one said: We want to go through the Ennsnahe Trase project, and that is why we give the nature conservation officials the direction, they have to grant the derogation for the Ennsnahe Trase. – First breach of justice! Despite the officials who have clearly stated that there is a reasonable alternative – in terms of human protection and in terms of nature conservation – you have said as a political majority party: We don't care. We give an instruction, which is granted by law to protect nature. - A breach number one. Fraction number two: Water law laws have been passed here in this House. I have to admit that there has been a change during the procedure, but the competent official has, in order not to lose the right to natural protection, drawn up a decency notice for the policy in which he has claimed things that were clearly illegal. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Not at all!]] He claimed that there was a consistent expansion. Mr Lukesch! Read it! The Supreme Court annulled the decision for illegality. Please note, however, that in our State, the political majority does not decide, but ultimately decides on such legal issues as the Supreme Court; and its decision was clear. The official has not chosen the legal find to say: I don't depend on the real state of the river. - No! He has chosen a very special legal find and said: I am putting my mind on the legal situation in this area. – Whether there has actually been expanded, whether there are really flood protection buildings, he has not even been interested in. He was only interested in legal status. In the clear text – an example of better understanding –: The officials were not interested in whether there was a house, but they were only interested in whether there was a building permit and whether an authority had found that there was a house there. Whether the house actually stands was indifferent to the official. But the incredible thing about this was that there was not even the consistent state. The official knew that! He admits that in the protocols. - A breach number two. The decisions were repealed by the Supreme Court and the Administrative Court. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: That's just illogical!]] You're right. You're right. No. Three. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Krainer and later Mrs Klasnic were too fed to expropriate the Styrian farmers, for they had sworn to the election assembly, and no peasants and no peasants in Styria were expropriated by a Styrian head of state. That is why Mr Krainer himself has confirmed that he has become sluggish and has put forward a motion for a resolution: The Minister of Economic Affairs should be expropriated! – In the direction of Vienna, we can continue to insult Steirer, which does not matter. Most importantly, we Steirer in the state government have remained clean! We, the Landesmutti and the Landespa, are decent people! We leave the dirty business of the expropriation to the Minister of Economic Affairs. Then a devolution request was made against itself. The head of state made a devolution request that the expropriations be carried out in the Ministry of Economic Affairs. And what happened in the Ministry of Economic Affairs? – The competent official came to the legal conclusion that expropriations were not possible. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: To a legal understanding!]] He also made a note of it. Mr Lukesch! I asked several times: Is there a single official in the Ministry of Economic Affairs who took a different legal opinion from that of Mr Neuhaus in a meeting? Is there a record note? Is there a definition, some document on which we can understand why, despite the lack of a legal basis – Mr Barmüller has responded – has been expropriated? There was no such record. There was also no discussion in which a protocol on this was made, but only political pressure was crucial. These expropriations were carried out through instructions. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Because the procedure obviously went empty! Obviously, it failed! It's going to be an official or a department...!]] Professor Lukesch! It's as pathetic as you constantly defend the officials' illegalities here! [[Abg. Steibl: What is this language?]] [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: That's huge!]] It is simply such a tragic thing that a professor, an intellectual who teaches at a university, tries to justify illegal conditions here with all the tricks and possibilities available to him in his native language. There was no record. The responsible negotiator has admitted that there has been an instruction for him to carry out the expropriations despite the lack of legal basis. We opposed Members then wanted to consult those officials who gave this direction so that we could know who the politician was behind it. But there was Mr. Oberdecker from Carinthia, the top decker from Innsbruck and the top decker from Vienna, Mr. Brix, the Democrat, the "great" Democrat in front of the Social Democratic gentleman, and asked: What do you want to know? For whom? What control? What democratic control in this House for? – And they said: What control is, we determine. We believe that the majority says what has to be done, and that is democratic. Ladies and gentlemen! It was not possible to question those who eventually gave this admonition. They of course did not want to know who that was, because the alleged abuse of office might go into the ministerial room. But that's not enough! They lose in all instances and try to intimidate farmers, environmental activists and environmental activists with complaints. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lukesch.]] But after that, when these processes were lost, nobody wanted to have been, Professor Lucisch. Then nobody wanted to have been, then there was and even there was a coalitional dispute! [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: It was the Landesbaudirektion!]] Mr Pöltl, the National Council for the Beautiful Styria, wrote a wonderful letter for "his" farmers. He writes: Mr. Finanzminister! Put those complaints in place! We don't want to complain to our poor farmers. Make sure that it is descaled. Please be so sweet, Minister of Finance! With this letter, Mr. Landesrat Pöltl of the ÖVP has walked around with his farmers. It has also made copies of the complaints in order to make it clear that the EIA has nothing to do with them. The actions were brought by the Financial Procurator on the request of a political agent, but you refuse to return the name of that agent to the protocols. – What is this, Mr. Wurmitzer? Is that democracy? Is that your concept of democracy, Professor Lukesch, that the name of the person who has given the mandate to complain to farmers and environmental activists does not appear in the Minutes? Because then it would have been black on white there! [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Is in it: Landesbaudirektion!]] The National Construction Directorate! – It was the officials! These, of course, have led the farmers to complain! – Professor Lukesch! [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Of course! Liability claims have also been filed!]] Don't you enjoy this incredible game you're doing here? Has You don't have any more shame at all? [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] Skill Do you not imagine that a bio-builder who has to take note of the fact that, with your transport policy, you want to traverse a new road through his territory, through his field, through his meadows, is of the opinion that it is immense that he is expropriated against his will and against Austrian laws and is then also accused by the ÖVP, by ÖVP politicians? Should it not, at least as soon as it becomes apparent that this was an illegal process on the part of this policy, be found to be true? – But They do not value it and hide behind a so-called democratic majority! Professor Lukesch! This has nothing to do with transport policy, which is an incredible increase of fellow citizens in a democratic country, in Austria, in a democratic republic. I'm telling you, you didn't... [[Abg. May. Mühlbachler: I would once ask if the overall interests are not ahead of the individual interests!]] They have not followed the meeting in committee. Mr Wurmitzer wanted to argue until the end that the accident had begun because the laws were so bad. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Common use of self-interest!]] Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. May. Mühlbachler: That's quite clear! As an opposition you look at the individual interests, but there are also total interests!]] They always confuse transport policy misconceptions – or right decisions, as you think it is – with a legal situation. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: But no!]] Why we are fighting in this way is relatively simple: You can enforce certain political things by majority decisions, and that is also good - or not good - but you cannot disregard laws because of political arbitrariness in a rule of law! But as long as I can, I will raise my voice. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: These accusations go empty!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kröll.]] You will not be able to do that, Mr Wurmitzer and Mr. Lukesch, and you too, Mr Kröll, will not be able to do so. And please stop by saying that you now want to see actions - as if some committee in this House, some hour we have been negotiating in this Court of Auditors subcommittee, would have contributed to a reduction in the implementation of them. Mr Landesrat Ressel and the State Government have decided that the so-called small bypass will be built. We have, of course, immediately accepted from the political side. But you will not make us say that you have violated the laws, and we will not be aware that, after 20 years of tough struggle, you have now cost not only much personal but also financial substance – I am not talking about those experts who have obviously put pressure on your authority and threatened it in their existence, I am not talking about it at all! – first of all, by preventing democratic control as if everything had been all right, and secondly, you say that we are building not only the small bypass, we are not only making the expansion of the stock, but also that trail that has been properly fought against for 20 years. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Protection claim!]] You won't experience that from us! We will resist it as long as we are able to do so in democracy! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Wormitzer and Mr Khol – unfortunately he is not present – you have said some wonderful things – especially Mr Khol – in the last few issues. I would also like to comment on this Nazi accusation that you have brought back today. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Don't apologize?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brix.]] – I don’t even think about it! I do not think, Professor Lukesch, to do you the pleasure of playing this game that you have been playing in this country since 1945. [[Abg. Wormitzer: An excuse is due!]] Sometimes I understand very certain naïve, historyless people who have given their voice to a particular party, which we all are not very satisfied with. [[Abg. May. Steindl: Now he's going to the voters!]] Since 1945, they have always acted as if what happened before 1945 had nothing to do with us – nothing with the SPÖ, nothing with the ÖVP and nothing with the other people sitting here in this house. These were our fathers and mothers who were responsible for this, in any way! [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Mein was a resistance fighter!]] You, Mr Brix, Mr Lukesch and Mr Wurmitzer, are mistaken if you believe that an Austrian parliamentarian is not allowed to say that there have also been majority voting in totalitarian countries, and also in the Nazi era!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e15429	Ladies and gentlemen, please put the final sentence to the vote. Your 20 minutes have expired. [[New calls.]] I ask you to hold back with the calls! Mr Wabl is speaking on the final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e15481	Oh, my God! Please spare me with this inferior, incredible view of history, which you have shown here since 1945 and which has led to people's not having come to their right for decades and decades because you have kept these things quiet and you too...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e15505	Your speaking time is over. [[Congratulations with the Greens and the Liberal Forum for the Abg, which leaves the speaker's desk. Wabl.]] The next speaker is Mr Wurmitzer. 10 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e15535	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! A better description of what we have been able to do in committee, what personal differentiations and accusations we have had to bear, than the just finished appearance of Mr Wabl could not exist at all. Mr Wabl! All you have claimed here are personal interpretations. They are in no way covered by the Committee's investigations. [[Abg. Wabl: It's incredible! It's incredible!]] They have literally spoken of plumper profit maximization at the expense of nature, but they are not sure that there has been an immense public interest in the construction of this road and still exists today! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Koppler: This is the green sausage!]] That people living there who suffer from the noise, we all know, have claimed you. – But you are doing exactly the opposite, Mr Wabl! They have made the claim here that the principles of the rule of law have been trampled on. [[Abg. Smolle: Yes!]] It is interesting to note that those who first demand the protection of nature later oppose the fact that they are also enforced and implemented. This is a double game we won't join. Mr Barmüller! I also do not understand what you have said in connection with the federalist construction of Austria and the behaviour of the Steiermark representatives. If you are true to law, you need to know that Austria is federalist, that there are federal and national competences, and that this is a law in the constitutional order. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Barmüller.]] If anyone calls upon it, he is right, and not wrong! You must take note of the following: The rule of law and the legal principle apply even if you do not like it! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Barmüller: That was very nice what you said!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smolle.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Today there are two reports on the assessment by the National Council: the first of the Committee's report and the second of the minority report by Mr Wabl, Dr. Grollitsch and Mr Smolle. [[Abg. Smolle: You both prevented the Martinek as well as the Baumann! Read it!]] – Yes, I would like to read. I would even like to read to you what Mrs Landes Captain has still written. I quote from her letter: "As I have been told by the two gentlemen" – that is, Mr. Landesrat Hirschmann and Mr. Dr. Wielinger – have members of the Committee on which your letter dated 10 January 1990 is based. July refers to taking a lot of time not to ask questions, but to presenting accusations against members of the Styrian state government and Styrian state officials." - Quote. That was the goal, and that corresponds to the facts. Today there are two reports on the debate. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Smolle.]] The first, the Committee's report, is the result of serious and conscientious work. We have checked with great accuracy. If only six dates for the investigation were initially estimated by the chairman, we have made a total of nine dates. We wanted to present an objective report to this House and invited the relevant personalities – 22 in number – and asked intensively about it. There was a report from the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs, a report from the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and a report from the Financial Procuratorship. This included the published documents of the Styrian Government and the Court of Auditors' report. These documents were very probably available in the Committee. It was, as I have mentioned, our aim to present a comprehensive, serious and sound report. The second intention we have pursued was to help the affected population in the Ennstal. If anyone is entitled to send out a cry for help, this is by no means the opposition, but the population of Stalinach, Wörschach and Liezen. You I conced the right to send out a cry for help. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] For us democratic votes in the communities concerned are binding. This explanation is also out of the mouth of the liberals and on the part of the liberals, but it is only a lip confession, because when it comes to it, they do not stick to it in any way. One can therefore draw the following summary – and that is the central point of our studies –: No illegal transactions have been detected, and they have not been found! [[Ironic cheerfulness with the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. May. Barmüller: This is not true, Mr Deputies! You know that! They deliberately say the untruth!]] ==References====External links==* Official website September 1990. A regulation is binding on the administration and it is therefore not necessary to add further instructions to the regulation. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: It is not about the race regulation, it is about the nature protection regulation!]] ==References====External links== ==References====External links== His extension was sought. The Water Law Act 1990 also sought the approval of water law. Mr Barmüller, perhaps you could listen to me! What exists is legal uncertainty in some areas. [[Abg. Wabl: "Legal uncertainty"!]] Until the decision of the Supreme Court, it was not clear whether the expropriation of sites for the protection of nature was possible or not possible. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: That never happened, you know!]] After the decision of the Constitutional Court, no one signed a decision on expropriation. Nor was the question of the obligation to approve water law not clearly settled until the law entered into force in 1990. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! I'm gonna make you a compliment now. The opponents of the Ennsnaher Tresse have exploited this uncertainty to the extreme and have used it to block everything and prevent any construction measure. In this way, this report is also a chronology of targeted and planned prevention. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The victim of this procedure shall bring the affected population. The opposition parties perform a very transparent double game: In the Ennstal they call for measures such as noise protection and the like, but in Vienna they are opposed and prevented. You're still running a double game now, at the turn of Stalinach. You say that you are for the so-called small bypass, but you are not saying that this is not at all possible with the involvement of the tub of Stalinach and the Sallaberger Bridge. So you're going to play a double game again! I have read your report very carefully. He breathes exactly that spirit you've revealed here several times. I have only chosen five points from your report, in which you give this House completely incorrect information, and can now mention them in detail: You claim in your report: A new nature conservation process had to be carried out due to the new 1994 detailed project. – This claim is wrong. ==References====External links==* Official website In October 1995, the extension of the derogation granted under nature protection legislation was clearly recognised as admissible. - That was point 1. Point 2: They claim that road construction is not possible through a designated and supported protected area in accordance with EU law. – This claim is also incorrect. Article 6(1) 3 and 4 of the Fauna-Flora-Habitat Directive is very likely to permit derogations. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: Bird Protection!]] Point 3: They claim that farmers were not prepared to make any redundancies. – That too is incorrect. The expropriations in the Western area were easily possible; most of the areas in the Western area were acquired in agreement. It was only because of your het campaigns that it was then no longer possible in the eastern area to acquire basic areas lawfully and in common ways. And that's what you're going to argue about as a counter-argument! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Point 4: You write in your report that the complaints had been a means of intimidating. – If you were to think on this claim, you would notice that this would make it possible for every person in Austria to file a complaint. A complaint is a legal remedy for someone who believes in being damaged. Therefore, it is also irrelevant who – the Landesbaudirektion or the Straßesbauamt Graz – has called on the financial procuratorship to complain. It is crucial that a damage has arisen and that the Republic is obliged to claim this damage. She has no other way at all! Point 5: They write on the last page of your report that it shows how little the opinion of the people is taken by those responsible. – That too is wrong. I should like to say that in the People's Survey, 72 percent of the votes cast for the Ennsnahe Trasse project were in favour. Those who stand for it support the will of the population and not the opposite. Finally, allow me to make one more sentence on political style. Mr Wabl! If someone has the courage to call other political groups who send Members to this House on democratic elections as Nazis – literally so, heard from me, and not only from me alone, but from all the members of the committee – then he should also have the courage to step in and say: [[Abg. Wabl: That's wrong what you say!]] I am sorry that I have exceeded the limits of what is possible, and I apologise for that. If a person is dealing with information individuals like Lausbuben and does not systematically use academic degrees that are part of the name, then he is also crossing the limits of the future and refusing to demand something here. If a person considers majority decisions to be a refusal to democracy, he will very often have the opportunity to talk about the refusal of democracy. It would be high time you changed your behavior. Then we'll get a little easier together.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e15767	Mr Wabl asked for an actual correction. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to give you the floor to that. Start with the claim you want to correct. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e15791	Mr President. Mr Wurmitzer claimed that I had called him "Nazi" in the subcommittee. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: You said, "As with the Nazis"!]] [[Further call of the Abg. Wormitzer.]] – What have I said in your opinion now? – I understood that you said I would have said: "They're a Nazi" or "They're Nazis." [[Abg. Brix: No, but "as with the Nazis"!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Look, I've found there – so that's clear –... [[Call the ÖVP: Set up right!]] [[Further calls.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] Please, Mr Wurmitzer, you can take out the protocols. Get the logs out and show us this place! I said: A majority decision does not yet have to be a democratic decision. [[Abg. Brix: You haven't talked that long! That's not true!]] There have been enough majority decisions in totalitarian systems, which were deeply undemocratic. Even in the Nazi era, there were referendums, with large majority who were disdainful, undemocratic, unsocial and racist. [[Abg. Brix: You haven't talked that long!]] [[Abg. Wormitzer: This is the untruth!]] – To make you hear that, too, Mr Wurmitzer!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e15934	The next speaker was Mr Grollitsch. Member, you would like a four-minute voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e15956	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] If you, as those who have not visited the Committee, heard the last two speakers, then you probably cannot believe that these two were really in the same committee, the two presentations are so different. We have actually used full seven days for this topic. The well-known attempt of the liberals, but also of the Greens, to make a little bit of the traffic cars in the Ennstal, is a big mistake. That must be said. He is mistaken because the willingness of the acting persons of the government parties to find a solution to the future was simply not available by admitting past mistakes and by handing over those who have made these mistakes. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: Yes!]] If you don't want to blame, this is Mrs Applebeck. It has made a fair effort to keep this committee neutral under the most difficult conditions. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I think you, too, of the other groups, will give me the following right: The fact that there is now a mini solution for Stainach is nothing more than the finally recognition of the 1994 proposal by the Liberal Council in Schmid to create the first solution for the transition of Stalinach. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Brix.]] This has now taken up Mr. Landesrat Ressel for himself – be it! If at least Stainach was the result of the Committee debates, I should be right. Due to the selection of those acting on the government side, this attempt was actually predictable. If Mr. Consulent Brix from Vienna-South – without the slightest reference to the Instal Valley – and Mr. Oberlehrer Wurmitzer from Upper Carinthia are released in an area for which the majority – the firm, deep majority – have not reached a solution for decades, then you should already think about why that was so. My reigns! At the top, this is an area that has been defeated by the farmers and the workers there over generations of nature. The Enns was handcuffed there for 200 years around 4 meters in depth to make the ground urable. They have tried very insensitive to force a project into this area, without speaking enough to the people who live there and without sufficient research. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: This has confirmed a part of the population!]] You have worked for decades in a sluggish way, and you have worked very hard and unlawfully, as has really been demonstrated in the de facto committee. The fact that we still have no solution is also proof of how sloppy has been worked. It is not to be expected that the two representatives in this area will find the acceptance of the population. The Ennstalers are contentious, there are old people living up there. [[Abg. Brix: But that was not the debate!]] There is a district court in this area about every ten kilometers. This also does not come about, as Mr Kröll knows. In Liezen, in Irdning, in Gröbming and in Schladming was and is strongly disputed and complained. It is therefore necessary to act very sensitively in this area, but not with this wooden hacker method. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If we have heard here that the majority is right, even if they act unlawfully, then thank you, Mr Wurmitzer. They have marched through the committee on this parole and have not given the feeling of emotional speech, as Mr Wabl, for example, has also said – he has worked hard on this matter – or on the conciliation attempts of the chairmen. Mrs. Apfelbeck has made a real effort. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e16064	The next speaker is Mr Eder. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e16086	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This debate has been very emotional for some time now. I think that we do nothing good to the people in the End Valley if we use expressions here as Members such as "The farmers are being robbed there", as Mr Barmüller said, or "plumpe profit maximization", "plumpe exploitation of people" or "merciful", as Mr Wabl expressed himself here. I myself took part in all these meetings and, to a certain extent, suffered from them, how Mr Wabl behaved there with the other colleagues, but above all – I did much more than that – towards the officials, some of whom had appeared there to provide information. This is not a behaviour of a Member, and I reject it, ladies and gentlemen. One can treat a subject even if it is difficult to deal with it in such a way that one tries to come to solutions without having to insult one another and without having to get into the deepest drawer. Ladies and gentlemen! On the subject itself, I would like to say that this is a trail that has been under way for 25 years. The first studies were carried out in 1971, and this alone shows how complex the situation is there. But the whole thing was not started to build streets, but was made to make a decision. That is why Members of the Green Group must also consider what decision they want to take. Should it be a decision for the people in the End Valley, should it be a decision for the Wattel King, or should it be a decision only for nature in this area? . The Greens – and I do not want to refer to the whole group now, but to what Mr Wabl said in the Subcommittee – have so far clearly decided against the people of the Innstal. I do not make such a decision here, but I would like to make a decision for the people of the Innstal, for a very simple reason. Today, the expression "democracy understanding" has already been strongly strengthened. If you look at the results of the popular survey that took place in the area of the Ennstaltrasse – e.g. in the villages of Stalinach, Wörschach, Weissenbach – you can see that 71 percent of those entitled to vote went to the poll and voted in favour of it and 94 percent of them voted in favour of it. Ladies and gentlemen! What is there to give a clearer signal in democracy than that the population is so high in favour of this trajectory? The same applies to Wörschach. 71 percent of the population also took part in the vote, and 86 percent of them voted in favour of this route. I could continue this list for a long time, but I do not wish to do so on the basis of time-consuming considerations. It's not necessary either. I would like to address one point briefly because it has been discussed over and over again, namely the question of expropriation. It is not the case that one could know from the house that the corresponding strips of land may also have to be included in a expropriation procedure next to the road. This has never been the case in Austria, because in the case of a road construction, the two green strips on the left and on the right of the road should have entered into a expropriation procedure. This can only happen if you really heat up the population. Every normal person is happy if he can sell his property right next to a street so that noise protection measures and green belts can be built on this property. For all Austrian road constructions, this has worked so far, only in this one case. Because it was conscious of a minority that has fueled the population there – individual farmers who had such land directly – who have been raised up the situation that we now have. I can only appeal to reason and ask that we all come to a solution in the sense of the people who have to suffer there. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e16144	The next speaker is Mr Smolle. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e16165	Gospod predsednik! Gospod Minister! Visoki Dom! Minister! [[Abg. Sigl: Dobar then!]] Mr President. High house! The Standing Subcommittee has been set up – and it is very clear here – "to examine illegal transactions in connection with the approval... of the ‘close to the border’ and of the resulting financial burdens – these must be examined – and of the ‘unseemly complaints’. It is rare to see the title of a committee for which it was set up, and it is rare to see that everything that was so to speak as a propositum has finally proved to be existing. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Prejudgment, Mr. Smolle!]] For there were illegal transactions, there was a financial burden on the Federation that washed itself – you can say – and there were hopeless complaints, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: No!]] [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: If you feel that the rule of law is a burden, you are against the rule of law!]] I also note that your report, namely the majority report, is continuing with false claims. On page 11 you say: The apodic – I don't know what the in this context means – accusation of illegality in connection with the various procedures carried out lacks any basis. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: "Let no objection be allowed"!]] [[Abg. Wormitzer: Right!]] What is illegal, if not what the Constitutional Court and the Administrative Court are doing? Is that illegal, or what does the thing look like? – It’s quite clear: You do not even use half a line for the facts that were not well, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Wormitzer: You weren't there!]] If you take up the second chapter, the chapter of the actions, including the so-called task of working – at the time still as the committee's work hypothesis – as confirmation: It is also true of the complaints, ladies and gentlemen, that you have to say, "Besides having been nothing"! But it sets up the crown that this has been done against better knowledge. For how do you resolve some other facts in your committee report? That's what it says on page 10: There have been various legal opinions, different points of view have been raised, and one is probably the other argumentable. Ladies and gentlemen! It is known to you – you know that, and the lawyers in the house know it too – that officials are not allowed to work on the basis of assumptions and argumentable views, but must act on the basis of the laws. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: But you also know that there have been several legal opinions!]] In this context, you have very well known that you do not have a legal basis, but you have said: Let's try it! Let us try procedures against the citizen, perhaps we have success! [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: This is your apodic view!]] Perhaps the citizens are so to speak, if we say to them: Please, go demonstrate, then we will complain to you, and then you will still look! Ladies and gentlemen! When did you start turning on the committee so to speak? – I have had the honour to experience the discussions, especially in the last stages. I do not wish to go further with the minutes from the time I was working on the committee. They started turning around when we got to you when we got there, which was all wrong. You've known that before. There were statements by officials: Don't do that! Then it was about finding out who said at the time: Let's do it anyway! That's where we got into the political field, and that's where you said: End of the debate! The end of the charges of persons we no longer need! For on the one ferry we were on our way towards financial procuratorship, and we should have asked the then Finance Minister and current Chancellor: Dear friend, how was that? Have the applications been made without your knowledge? Or maybe you have even said something like this, in the form of an instruction, a recommendation or with an armpit: "Well, let's complain, if you mean!"? How did you behave? – We would have asked the German Chancellor now. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: That's exactly the answer!]] There was also the second ferry, which was of course even hotter for the ÖVP. We have reached the then Minister of Economic Affairs, the current Vice-Cancellor. But since you have once blocked us with the statement of Mr H., which has been mentioned more often, who should not have been loaded for the sake of illness, in the hope that nothing will come out, and in this deadlock the committee then remained stuck and one would not ask further questions. Then the perfectly harmless request, which I have to add, is initiated by me, which says: Andreas Wabl, let's make another request! Let us make another attempt towards a common report or perhaps a common conclusion! Let's load the next two gentlemen! Don't let the whole thing end up on the backs and heads of small officials like the Hornberger shooting! [[Abg. Wormitzer: Right! That's what you did!]] Let's go up a little higher! For a Mr Martinek and a Mr Baumann will tell us what their ministers thought in this process at the time. Then another third person comes into play. I really think it is – apologise – infamble that, after the discussions have been concluded, we have received a letter from Mrs Landeshuptmann Klasnic, who refers to the Committee's deliberations, and we are neither committee nor individual Members... – I am of course willing to provide Mrs Obfrau with the letter to you. [[the speaker keeps the letter up to date]] [[Abg. Applebeck: At least you got it! I haven't seen him at all yet!]] If I knew, I'd have given it to you before. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: What's in it?]] – That we can no longer discuss it. That is really the summit of unkindness! But your dear report says nothing about us waiting for a letter! At least that could have been written in: We don't have a letter of love from Styria yet, he'll come, he's already at the post office! That could have stood in there. You have known that Mrs. Landeshuptmann Klasnic owes us a letter. But you said: You know, dear Waltraud, just send us the letter so that it can get to the plenary on time! There is, as it were, a small fire, but the Committee can no longer deal with it. – For if I had received the letter before, ladies and gentlemen, then I would have kindly spoken to the woman Obfrau, a woman who also has a lot of understanding for the needs of the opposition, because she herself is also a member of the opposition. I would have said: Please convene a meeting urgently! What is left of the opposition today? - We have to ask: Come on, let's go! Therefore, my clear statement: We have to get back to the start. Now I'd like to ask you to finally stop the demagogy. For what are you talking about? – It always says: The stainac citizens and the Ennstals, they are at our heart. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: That's right!]] These studies in the house do not impede the building progresses and construction measures. Ladies and gentlemen! We want to prevent any action that is being taken elsewhere: to carry out expropriations on a legitimate basis, to file acts of injustice and then to consider complaints to those who oppose them. That's very simple, but that's the method! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on Green MEPs.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Awesome!]] I am a person who always argues objectively, and I see no reason that speaks against it. But you will be able to explain to me why we did not need Martinek because Mr H. could not explain to us where he got instructions, or if he did not get any. But what do you write in your documents – I underlined it – about the instructions? - That's what it says: In the course of the deliberations, opinions differed on the issue of direction. – So the curve is scratched, so it is defined that there must have been a direction! For if there are already different legal opinions, one must say where it is going, because of a legal opinion. But one must say: That's where we're going. So the question is justified: Who said that not this legal opinion, but the other is the true one? – You were afraid of that because the Ministers of Justice would have been asked to do so. If you don't shake this, ladies and gentlemen, I don't know what's shaking you at all. You don't lose a word in your report about why you didn't want to load a number of other experts and information people. They say: We have loaded these – almost as if others had not been requested at all. There is no word to say that the gentlemen - as mentioned in the minority report - were rejected because we allegedly did not need them because we had already learned everything, ladies and gentlemen! If you only put the comparison here in numbers – the citizen himself should make a rhyme on it –: 20 loaded, 19 not loaded. So almost as many not loaded as loaded, ladies and gentlemen! That's your understanding of education. This also means you can't draw a constructive person like me to your side! You are also made of a very normal Member of Parliament oppositionelle. That's not how it works, we can't watch it! You can really – what I used to be like Interlocutory call – write a long letter of thanks to the left half of the empire here: Thank you, SPÖ, for once again taking our head out of the loop, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Of course, the two ministers, Schüssel and now Farnleitner were responsible for the inheritance, and Mrs Klasnic. – A short story so to say to the rest: The woman's head of state does not take it so precisely in Styria with the laws at all. There are well known – this is a completely different area, but I would like to bring it to explain the Styrian nature of the legal system – an article 7 which speaks very clearly of the Carinthian Slovenians and also of the Styrian Slovenians, and there are infinitely many causes in the lady that one should dare to take the step and acknowledge the Slovenian people group in Styria in the sense that she also gets a seat and voice in the advisory board, ladies and gentlemen. But there is again a different legal view in the Styria, so to speak. There are different legal opinions, and there are a few very right, dangerous, unruly ÖVPlers to which you must listen. And that's exactly what this sloppy handling is: The right is not only good if it benefits me, but I always have to follow it, ladies and gentlemen. I can't choose when it's right for me. – But you do it in the Styria! To this end, I would like to make one more point: Mr Hirschmann, who is so praised and who is supposed to have been so badly insulted in the committee, is "famous" as one of the thinkers of the Styria – under quotation marks. He wants to take Carinthia right away, saying: Let us make a common large Carinthian and Styrian state! – I can only say: As long as there is such a sloppy way of dealing with law and law in Styria, we want Kärntner to continue our own country day for the time being, soon, of course, reinforced by a lady or a gentleman from the Liberal Group; in the context of the 1999 candidate, it will succeed! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lukesch.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I know it is not pleasant for you to say that, but I am concerned about this type of reporting. I have said this to Mr Brix earlier: One can make a mistake, we all make mistakes, but a sincere man or a sincere woman must also be able to say: I made a mistake, but I don't want to repeat it. – However, they cover up the mistakes and say: There was nothing illegal, nothing happened. Let's go over to the agenda. And that's just because you want to cover political personalities. I also understand this your heart concern, which is already okay, but here in this context you are called to control the government on behalf of the citizens and not to support the government. I believe that the government is also... [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Three-quarters of the citizens want the road, Smolle!]] Yes! This includes those you have chosen, Mr. Lukesch! But you are betraying this electorate! Ladies and gentlemen! What, then, is to be thought of by a subcommittee which calls illegalities non-existent? However, the fact that there has actually been this has resulted in the deliberations. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: No!]] What is to be said of a majority of the subcommittee, which holds out in a report that there have been some complaints which have been almost successful, but which are still in the revision? What about a subcommittee that does not realize that farmers are still in trouble because they have received compensation money and now do not know how to return it, ladies and gentlemen? [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: You and Wabl want to bring the farmers into this situation!]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is very dangerous to put other people in trouble through their own injustices, in difficulties for which they can't do anything. These people resisted, but were expropriated and compensated. Then it was found that it was wrongfully expropriated, and now they have to repay the money. And in view of these miscarriages, which you and your grand-copper, Mr. Lukesch, have you done, are you not quite quiet, quiet and modest?- Oh, my God! So I'm holding on again: I agree that we can make mistakes, but we must not take such sloppy action and not include in the report all that is unpleasant to you. That's not how it is! That's not decent! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] This also has nothing to do with parliamentarianism, but with whether one is willing to face a mistake that has been made. One can have insight and resolve not to make such a mistake any more. But you can't hide everything, let it grow up and hide! Mr. Lukesch! [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Yes!]] Give yourself a back! Be courageous and explain to us how it was patched here! [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Let me finally turn to the speaker's desk, I won't take it off anyway!]] Have a little courage! I mean, you have to be able to appeal to a decent person! It is a good core in everyone, probably also in Parliament, as I hope at least! Ladies and gentlemen! I have tried very hard – please read the Minutes; unfortunately it is only accessible to the committee and subcommittee members – and I was very pleased that we have come to a joint report so that we can say: The government groups – red and black – have come to this view, and the opposition represents a different opinion. We could have reported in balance, so to speak, so that the House and the public can take a look at the seriousness of the matter. However, according to this report, dear friends, according to which "eth" has not happened, the citizen must ask himself why matters in which nothing has happened have been examined. He'll say: They sit in any committee, talk, report and waste our money, although nothing has happened anyway. What do they actually investigate, processes that do not exist? [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: So you think apodic that something has to come out?]] Ladies and gentlemen! That's how the cat bites in the tail, and she's not supposed to. For the citizen, who knows that there is a permanent subcommittee in Parliament which he is funding, naturally asks: What's there to investigate? Imagine what it costs: There are 30 people sitting on many microphones together, many officials are involved. The citizen must finance the investigation of something where nothing has been done! Ladies and gentlemen! You can't do that! That's not fair! Honesty is important for officials, politicians and MEPs, for everyone! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] Absorbed You do not ask the subcommittee to discuss the problem of solving the problems of transport in the Ennstal. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Eder did that quite clearly!]] You tried that again and again. They once again wanted to deceive the citizens by pretending that the Greens, Liberals and the Freemans are supposed to prevent a traffic solution for the Innstal. In reality, however, we only want to prevent any further injustices in the future. We want to stop that! In this way you also forge the opposition, and you should think so, because it is not easy to bring three so different opposition groups to the conclusion of a joint paper, ladies and gentlemen! You should ask yourself whether the matter is perhaps a little more serious, and should not put things in a ridiculous way! Mr President. Our request is probably signed with you. All three opposition parties request referral back to the Court of Auditors. As has been said, there is still an opportunity for both government parties to come to a joint final report. Let's load the mentioned gentlemen! We will see what information they provide, and then we will make a good report. You shouldn't let this chance pass, my dear friends!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e16525	The request made by Mr Dr. Grumpy, Mag. Mr Barmüller and Mr Wabl have been given sufficient support to refer the matter back to the Court of Auditors, which Mr Smolle has just mentioned, and will be put to the vote. The next speaker was Mr. Dr. Lukesch. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e16549	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! There is still a lot of public here in this House, and I think most do not understand what is being discussed here and what is being discussed, they do not understand what has finally come out in nine long sessions after surveying 22 persons. I do not understand why the united opposition does not recognise that there has been a project which has been studied and approved since 1990 on the basis of a total of 22 years, which was confirmed in 1992 by the Constitutional Court. – This is the first fact. There have also been – and this has often been said – public surveys in the five traffic affected places, and 72 percent, more than two thirds, have voted in favour of the Ennsnahe Tress. All of this has been done with the instruments of the democratic rule of law, without a trace of illegality, illegal political instructions or unlawful administrative indebtedness. Of course, now, Mr Barmüller, the point on which you have existed comes to debate, for example, the expropriation of land surfaces in the Ennstal. Of course it did. But, Mr Barmüller, I first appeal to your house mind and also - I believe I may - to the legal sense I suspect in you and why I do not understand why you are going so many ways within the opposition together with colleagues Wabl. There a road project is approved under the Federal Roads Act, and then a compensation area is defined by the Steiermärk State Government, with the addition of the Nature Conservation Advisory Council because of this road construction, by the Styria regulation, which goes beyond the necessary area of the direct road. Why? – To protect nature and people within the framework of this road construction! People should be protected from noise by taking appropriate sound protection measures and planting a green belt, and nature should be protected from the fires and fields behind them. All of this should be carried out on the occasion of the construction of this road and for the purpose of the construction of this road in national competence for the protection of nature and people. Then – and now the house mind question does not go along with Mr Wabl at all – the Styrian Federal Road Administration at first instance and the Federal Ministry in second instance say that the additional nature balance areas for this reason must be considered as an integral part, which means that the appropriate measures to implement such areas with these conditions are subject to the Federal Road Law. This is something that the house mind suggests to everyone, and this is also quite easy to argue: There is an approved road, to which we need a compensation area, and that is why we agree that the compensation area belongs to the road. Because where else does she belong? She's not independent! [[Abg. May. Barmüller: Where does the compensation area come from?]] Now, Mr Barmüller, I'll give you the right. The Constitutional Court is – I understand this and I am obliged to do so – a very concerned guardian of private property law. That's how I commit him. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Barmüller.]] However, the Constitutional Court notes that there is a conflict of standards between federal competence and national competence and that expropriation is not possible on the basis of national competence. In reality, it notes that there is a legislative gap for the implementation of such a project and for the establishment of such nature reserves. – He actually said that! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Barmüller.]] But in his attempt to protect private property, he said: The expropriations cannot be argued with the existing legal situation. [[Further call of the Abg. May. Barmüller.]] That's it! Quite simply, Mr. Barmüller! And I am glad that in our free state of law, even if it is a citizen seduced by Mr Wabl, we are against the state in front of the...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e16606	Ladies and gentlemen! They are observed from the balcony with unsavory amazement. I ask you to calm down!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e16638	That is exactly the legal position suggested by the house mind, but which, I say, Mr Barmüller, has been rejected by the Constitutional Court for lack of legal foundation. But it cannot be blamed on the authorities, officials or responsible politicians in this respect! In reality, this is a difference in the legal opinion, as there may now be different assessments of a matter. This is also true in science, and even when drawing up opinions, the most diverse experts will always come to the various results. This is to be held once in a while with regard to this illegality! It poses another problem to you, and I would like to speak to you as a lawyer again: If it were true that illegal instructions had been given – by whoever, by a superior or by a politician; however, this has not been established in the committee – if there had been such instructions, and if these had been unlawful, then the pragmatized official from the outset should have refused to follow them. For this is part of his fidelity and is prescribed to him under civil service law. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Barmüller.]] This has not happened, therefore, you want to inform the people that there have been illegal instructions, and the officials are too stupid to recognize it, or would crawl around before the superiors and not have the civil court to say: I do not accept any illegal instructions! – These are pragmatized officials! They would definitely say that. [[The ironic hustle and bustle of the Abg. Dr. Petrovic.]] They do not need to be referred to by Wabl as party-dependent and party-goers of any party, as Mr Wabl has done on a permanent basis. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intercom calls at the Liberal Forum and the Greens.]] I will continue: What particularly irritated me about the position of the Liberal Forum and also the position of the Freedom Party... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smolle.]] First of all, Karel Smolle, I'll tell you something: I have not been surprised that the Styrian LIF member Barmüller has resigned his seat in this Subcommittee to you, the Carinthian Slovenian. In the election campaign in Styria, the Liberal Forum has distributed these cards with the title "Liber Ennsnahe Traasse" - "Liber" without "he", perhaps to remind the LIF in some way. So you gave yourself in Styria, and now you have to get the chestnuts for barmüller out of the fire! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would also like to say something about Mr Grollitsch: He discussed a single sentence in the last committee and proposed that this sentence be amended. By the way, you, Mr Smolle, have also proposed this. We have not responded to the amendment to this one sentence. And suddenly, both the opposition parties, the liberals and the Smolle, came up with the completely different report by Mr Wabl. Thus Wabl succeeded in actually dressing the cock with the dog and not vice versa. I congratulate him! [[Congratulations and cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen: I have learned a lot in this subcommittee. The result has already described another one before me when he said that it is unsatisfactory that the Federal Road Administration is dependent on the voluntary consent of all property owners when it comes to the implementation of landscape care measures. – This was the opinion of the Court of Auditors in 1993, and it has confirmed itself here again: We should therefore make such changes in the interest of the traffic plagued and also of the unsafe population in the Ennstal!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e16727	It is now Mr Magistrate. Mr Barmüller said that he was correct. [[Abg. Smolle: I am also reporting an actual correction!]] Mr Smolle! I also take you ad notably for an actual correction immediately thereafter. Mr Mag. Barmüller, please start with the facts you want to correct.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e16758	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Lukesch claimed that I had resigned from Mr Smolle's seat at the last meeting. - That's wrong. Mr Smolle was because I had no time, so kindly, to attend the last two committee meetings to represent me in them. I didn't "return" my seat. I should like to point out that I am still a member of the Standing Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] That's clear. Second point: You said that we simply "went" on Mr Wabl's report. It is true that, after Mr Wabl and we have decided to make a joint report, there has been joint negotiations on this report and this report has been achieved under the participation of the Liberals and also under the participation of the Liberals in its final version. We have therefore not only been "disputed" from this report without criticism. That is why this minority report is a real minority report. It was not only designed by a political group, but it represents the opinion of the entire opposition. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e16801	Mr Smolle, you are now talking about an actual correction.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e16825	In fact, I would like to correct the following: Mr Lukesch has said here that we have only "run" on the proposal, proposal and report of Mr Wabl. [[Abg. Dr. Stippel: That's what we've heard anyway!]] He pointed at me! [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: Good morning!]] I have had very serious discussions within my group with Mr Barmüller and also with the other opposition parties, and the minority report is the result of very intensive discussions, ladies and gentlemen. I don't intend to take the chestnuts out of the fire for someone else, not even from a fire that you have lit, dear friends of the government party!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e16874	We continue in the order of word messages. The next speaker was Mrs Petrovic. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e16892	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! If it were not so tragic, there could be a lot of happiness in the whole, especially in view of the mood in the government parties that they once again succeeded in not allowing control. The arguments put forward today, exactly 20 years after the Zwentendorf vote, are also significant. Mr Eder, you claimed that the Greens would make policy for the Wattel King and against the people. Mr Lukesch, you said that the Greens would have lifted up the farmers and that is why we should have built without permission and put a black construction in the countryside. These are the old "arguments" that we heard in Hainburg at the time when we tried to raise construction workers to the demonstrators. Today the Greens presented a small exhibition in the local V, which has the arguments of the advocates of nuclear power from then on to the subject: Job creation would be created by nuclear power, the follow-up to the future would ensure and drive research and technology forward. It is also documented as being – I was there at the time – mocked the critics of technology as a backsliding person, as people who do not worry about jobs. – Today we know that it is quite different! Big statesmen like Bruno Kreisky also had to admit a mistake. However, in some cases here, Mr Lukesch, I have the impression that this debate has completely gone by. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Not at all!]] And something else, Mr Luke: Do you see the Austrian farmers as so wild people that you can hoist somewhere and instrumentalize for anything? [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Don't take the farmers hostage!]] Then, Mr Lukesch, I ask you: How was the demonstrations of the farmers at Ballhausplatz that you urged? Has it been heated, lost and people who don't know what they want? – I think the Austrian farmers and also the farmers in the Ennstal know very, very well what they want! You don't want your transport policy! [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] The Constitutional Court has given them the right, and this is probably the supreme instance! Or, Mr Lukesch, Mr Professor, are you wiser and more rule of law than the Constitutional Court? – That’s very surprising! Mr Eder! To your claim regarding the politics for the Wagel King and against the people: At some point, there was already an insight, even among the government parties, that there is no policy for people who destroy nature, the livelihoods and also economic standing legs, such as the interests of the leisure and recreation industry, tourism. That is why I ask you again, Mr Eder, Mr Lukasch: How will you behave once conditions have reversed when there are conditions like the burner, when people notice what spirits have been called? Will an ÖVP head of state then suddenly stand with the demonstrators and find the decisions that the ÖVP has led before bad at once? Because this is always the result: They promise people that they will get peace from traffic, but they know very well that this will not be the case. You know that with the construction of a road you'll get rid of an avalanche of transit traffic and destroy an area. You know! Need for Better Knowledge However, it is the desperate situation of people who can no longer sleep, but who would also be served with a small, non-capacity-enhancing bypass. You use these fears and these concerns to push your transit policy into the eye of an entire region and to break this region as it was on the burner! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I'm just waiting for the moment, because the woman's head of state and the councils will then stand on a transit route, for example on the Pyhrn motorway, and say: What happened again? Oh, my God, we didn't want that! Something has already happened again, which we could not estimate! – This is responsible transport policy! Mr Lukesch! They must also be a bad economist, because it has been clearly demonstrated in economics and in transport science that the sentence: Whoever builds roads will reap traffic, apply and that the causalities are indeed so stored and not different! [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: The traffic is already there, and it's rolling through the bedrooms of the people!]] But now, ladies and gentlemen, to control: They always create new demand by knowingly not realizing alternatives by pretending that the growth rates in motorized road traffic would almost be wanted by the dear God or came down from above. Why does it work in other relations where you have acted, and why are the states on the burner as they are? – Because They made a bad policy there – and for no other reason! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Now to the legal situation – and therefore also the outrage of the opposition and also my indignation –: I promise you that it will not have to be used with this committee, certainly not. It's going on! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] They say, with regard to the illegalities: What should we have done? We just wanted to expropriate a biterl anyway to then take nature conservation measures again. – Nature from second hand: after You have tried to go across the iris meadows after putting a black construction in the middle of the landscape, as well as a waterproof tub filled with water. These are the structures, the They would have built there without permission! If anyone had done such a thing to the opposition in the private field, I would like to know what would have happened in the appropriate proceedings! Mr Lukesch! Once again on the rule of law: What do you think of a federal country, what do you think of a country chief woman – then in the function of a councillor – who has two opinions in her drawers, two opinions from the office Zottl & Erber with the same date – the same date! – but with completely different content? Two opinions, completely identical date, but a different content! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lukesch.]] You can't understand this because you just didn't load information like Dr. Hauser and Mr. Umweltanworst, even her own national attorney. You would have told you exactly. I have read these opinions, unfortunately not you, Mr Luke, because you did not hear and did not want to see. [[Sustained calls of the Abg. Dr. Lukesch]] In this one opinion, which corresponds to reality, reads: This trail is at risk of flood. After the HQ 30, this trail is flood risked. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: This is your own opinion! Read the supplement!]] Since this opinion had just led to the result that the Constitutional Court had finally developed, the current head of state needed a second opinion from the drawer, in which, however, there was something else. In fact, one assumed a fictitious expansion state of the Ends, a state of expansion that does not correspond to reality. It is an opinion, where the expert knew that he was describing a fantasy situation that does not correspond to reality. The consequence is not just a legal one, it is not just that the whole thing is illegal, that you are wrong to try to push the opposition back, but this consequence would even have been a life-threatening one. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Go, please!]] They have deliberately taken advantage of the construction of a river-hazardous route – not a narrow end, but an "end-wet" route. They would have deliberately assumed that in the event of such weather conditions, people might be getting into an aquaplanting situation. You'd have bought it! You were worthy of carrying out this long-standing political decision. You would even have bought that people are in danger of life. That's where it all ends! That's where it all ends, Mr. Luke. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] One last thing to add: It has been deliberately used by a woman who is the head of the country today. That's a tough accusation, but he's right. I have read these opinions myself. I was also horrified and shocked about it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] One last thing: From this morning... – Let us read the opinions together, Mr Wurmitzer, and then you will explain to me why the Zottl & Erber office presents two different opinions with the same date. [[Abg. Wormitzer: This is the untruth!]] I refer to this as a conscious bending of the rule of law. This bending of the rule of law has you and your Styrian party friends to represent and no one else. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: You have the immeasurability to spread here untruths!]] More about political control: They were very evocative in the committee, and you probably won't get away from these outrages either. [[Calls and calls between Dr. Lukesch and Smolle.]] You can suppress control for a period of time, you have been able to prevent any committee of inquiry since three legislative periods – we have never had that in the Second Republic – you cannot load information persons, but you will have to make the accusation – not only of Mr Wabl, but also of me, of the whole opposition – that this total blockade of control is a facet that existed and exists in totalitarian states. [[Follow-up calls and calls between Deputies Dr. Lucisch and Smolle.]] I don't draw direct historical parallels. But only this facet of totalitarian regimes, which you introduce through your two-thirds majority, is this House unworthy, and you will also have to represent it in all form in the context of the forthcoming election decisions.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e17083	Mrs Beder is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e17105	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mrs Petrovic, I would like to thank you for: You know the local circumstances, because you were already at press conferences in the castle of Trautenfels. It has a beautiful ambience for press conferences, you can look down on the beautiful Iris meadows. But be assured: They're just as valuable to us as they are to you. We also want to protect our nature. People don't have to come from somewhere else to do this. However, they forget the people who have been plagued there by the traffic that, in part, cannot send their children over the road because the trucks and many other cars are passing by. Forget it! [[Abg. May. Kammerlander: Would you have chosen another route!]] Mrs. Colleague! Yesterday I read it again: New resistance to the trail near the end! They have an activist there, who was only an activist because she wanted a mandate. [[New calls from the Abg. May. Kammerlander.]] It is probably now only about mandates, so you also use this Parliament. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They're not for the people in Ennstal. But I can also tell you: Your best times in the Ennstal are over. I have received the results of the 1990, 1994 and 1995 National Council elections: 1990 and 1994 had The results are already below those of 1990. [[Abg. May. Kammerlander: What does this have to do with the Ennsnahen Treasse?]] This has a lot to do with the Ennsnahe track because you are represented there and block everything and specifically act as a preventer. There was a broad agreement for the Ressel-Tangente, including yours. What was a few days later? – They wanted to keep back a fee. And that's not appropriate. They have carried on the struggle in Parliament and have continued here. – What do you read today? Hesitant fight for end-of-life tracks! – Already in the early days, this was in the newspapers. There was also a cry for help from the FPÖ, the LIF and the Greens to the public. Have you forgotten that there is also a cry for help from people who are finally waiting for a solution to the traffic problem? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We were represented in the committee, we really took time to listen to everything. There were nine dates, it was probably the twenty hours, and if you know how long that's been going... [[Abg. May. Kammerlander: After I will have a different opinion! Imagine!]] – Of course you can have another opinion, Mrs Colleague, but at the end of the day you know what it is like in a democracy. If you do, I would like to tell you the following: You know, as a Member of Parliament, you get letters from those who are for that, and from those who are against it. I'd like to read you a letter from an overforest master. I am convinced that a senior forest master will take account of the environment. For example, he writes: "In the case of the dispute over this route, much too much emphasis is placed on the crucial importance of transport development for the economic development of a region. That's why we need a traffic solution for the End Valley." – He then writes on –: "It's not possible to think what's ahead of us when a few profile-thinking environmentalists determine what's going on in our country." – I think you should say that from this point of view. This B 146, the Ressel-Tangente, is the first step for the tormented stainachers. They know that there is a traffic blind in Stalinach. In 1997, it was 14 200 vehicles a day with a heavy traffic share of 16 percent. [[Abg. May. Chamberlander: 20 years you have had time, Mrs. Colleague!]] This is a transport increase of around 3 percent compared to 1996. It is also expected this year that there will be a further increase of 4 percent. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: Do something!]] The 2005 predictions are that 18 000 to 20 000 vehicles will be counted in 24 hours. I hope that by then at least the crossing of Stainach will be built and that you can finally drive on a road where, if you want to drive from Schladming to the state capital, you don't need two and a half to three hours. You probably don't drive that many times. The farmers have also been addressed today. All who go to the Ennstal will surely see this economic building, on which says: Endental farmers for the Endensnahe Treasse. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Build the track properly, two-track!]] I also have a letter here in which the farmers stand for the Ennsnahe Treasse. There it is – I quote –: "We don't want to be farmers against farmers. But above all, we do not want farmers to be dependent on and extradited to extreme greens or non-farm groups and political tactics. We don't need beautiful words, no excuses, no promises, no more consolations. We are finally demanding clear statements and actions." These actions are demanded by politics, because politics is called upon to act to finally put an end to this misdeed in the Ennstal.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e17238	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e17259	High house! I have followed the tumult-like scenes in this debate. Someone certainly does not use this tumult, namely the population who has been waiting there for 27 years for a traffic solution. Today, this traffic solution is praised and defended by the coalition so well, but during the last 20 years you have actually done nothing further there. Some things would have been really easy to realize. I'll come back to that. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This project is a model example of how such a project is condemned from the outset to failure, first of all because of the confusion in this complicated legal situation, which was not possible to clarify in the Subcommittee, second because of the insensibility of planning, in which, as Mr Grollitsch has already mentioned, tradition and cultural circumstances have been seriously neglected in this sensitive region. Ladies and gentlemen! For 27 years there has already been a doctor, but the wheel of time has turned on. Countless victims complain that the population is deeply divided. We know that, as a result of this decades of discussion, families who have previously lived together in peace have now been deeply refined. Austria has joined the EU, and we have known – or you should have known – that the legal matter of the EU must also be transposed into national law, including the unloved directives, which include, for example, the Birds Directive. There are new insights on the underground. We know that the route, as it is planned, is a technically very complex and cost-intensive and difficult to build route. All in all, ladies and gentlemen, these are unbearable conditions for the people. But the real scandal of this infinite history of Enns nigher trasses is the integrability of those responsible. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! They have known for years that the trail is unenforceable. They have been familiar with the possible alternatives for years: existing expansion, running parallel routes for agriculture, local detours. There is a proposal for the crossing of Stainach, which dates back to 1994. But the rigidity – and this has clearly emerged from the statements of the State Councillor Ressel – as is still held in the original project, this project will also fail for the next decades – on the back of the population. And that's exactly the scandal of this never-ending story, of this infinite story. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! They must therefore not be surprised at the displeasure of the population of politics. The people of the Ennstal will certainly present this displeasure to you during the next elections. This majority report is unacceptable to us.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e17324	I call Mr Stampler. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e17345	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! At many meetings – nine in all – the Standing Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors has discussed the examinations. Many persons have tried to assist the Subcommittee in its tasks, or have been willing to answer questions on each subject. However, the population of the Ennstal cannot be offended that it is expected by the politicians and not by a constant verbal hack, which does not lead to any solution. What some Members have done here in the house was simple and simple political shadow boxing – that's all. But not all members of the opposition parties were always against an end-to-end route. Mr Grollitsch, whom I very much appreciate, issued on 30 July. June – I quote literally – said that he considered it positive that Hirschmann had decided on the matter and, with a clear commitment to the prescribed route, was ready to implement the 90 percent of the Ennstaler's wish. – End of the quote. I have now been surprised by the joint issue of FPÖ, Greens and Liberals from 3rd century onwards. November read, which sounds different. That is where the opposition all at once speaks of an extension close to existence to which it stands. But back to the course itself: It is clear that there is a prescribed route that is still valid and that the constitutional court has also confirmed its legitimate status. It may already be that there are different views on the subject of transport between the government parties on the one hand and the opposition on the other, but one must look at political reality. What I can't accept is if you staged at the expense of the suffering-tested population of an entire language of political theater donors. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] How does reality look? – Every day a traffic blind rolls through the End Valley. Figures for this have already been mentioned: 14 200 vehicles in the area of Stainach with a heavy traffic share of 16 percent, in the field of Liezen it was in 1997 for the 21,000 vehicles. I would like to see some of the ladies and gentlemen from this house react when so many vehicles were passing their bedroom every day. Do you know what's at risk? – Not the rule of law, not the proper implementation of procedures, not the finances of the federal government, but the lives of the people there, the lives of the children who go to school there, the lives of the old people who hardly dare to walk the streets any more. In 1993, the Court of Auditors discussed and assessed the fact that the process of cross-border cross-border development was largely open because a number of different solutions and proposals for improvement were dealt with. It has also been positively assessed that landscape management measures are taken into account. If my colleague, Mr Wabl, as a self-proclaimed savior of the Innstal believes that the expropriation procedure is a consciously illegal act, thought of by evil officials in order to prove the Innstal, one must resist it: In fact, one only wanted to fulfil the requirements of this nature conservation authority. This also goes back to a notice from the State of Styria, in which a two-thirds majority of the Styrian Nature Conservation Council has spoken out for this route. In 1997, the Republic of Austria, as a result of the not-ending discussion, had a number of opinions taken on the Ennsnahen Treasse. I refer to three studies: on the one hand to a study by Professor Pischinger on the assessment of emissions of air pollutants, which proves that the stock building is worse than the planned variant, on the other hand to the environmental medical advice of Dr. König and Dr. Oberfeld, which is also suitable for the planned Ennsnah trajectory, and, on the other hand, to the hydrogeological assessment of the Erhart-Schippek team, Pascher and partners who find themselves in this horn, according to which there is a risk of interfering in the groundwater streams when there is an existing expansion. Ladies and gentlemen! The protection of people is sacred to us of the ÖVP. We therefore want a proper solution for the Ennstal, we welcome the decision to get to work as quickly as possible, in order to realize for the first time the national road crossing for Stainach. This should be a first step to follow the overall project. We are committed to environmental protection and animal welfare, but the protection of humans, in this case especially those people who live in the Innstal, is a priority for us.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e17413	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Gabriela Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e17435	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! What we heard now came out in the sentence: We need to look at reality. That was my previous speaker's statement. How does this reality look? – He spoke of thousands of trucks donating through the End Valley. Why does such a situation exist, why do we have to look at such a reality? – Because – I am now saying this clearly and clearly – transport policy failed because your commitment to moving freight to the rails remained pure lip knowledge, because you did nothing to limit traffic flows at the source. This is the one reality that must be clearly called by name. However, the problem of the Ennstal is not only a matter of transport policy disaster, not only particularly serious in terms of transport and transit policy, but certainly also in terms of the rule of law. This is a model example of how state law becomes a kind of Faustrecht, a right of thumb in the sense of a state government. Mr Lukesch! You have meant in a wonderfully pharysic, legal windshield, it should, if I may quote you, gain the upper hand of the legal sense. I wonder what we have laws for if, in your opinion, the legal sense would be sufficient. They also said that one should let the house's mind run and not, so to speak, be hair-splitted and legally small-scale on nature conservation and so on. I wonder, What is the rule of law for when the house mind should rule anyway? What do we need all the lawyers if the house mind or the legal sense of normal human understanding is sufficient? [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: You have not listened or understood, Mrs. Moser!]] In my opinion, this was clearly a lecture in relation to pharysaicism in the legal nomenclature. They have also said that there can be a conflict of standards. What do we have constitutional courts for? What are the administrative courts for which we have specific statements of what is right and what is wrong? It was wrong how the Styrian state government went about. This is clearly also to be read from the Court of Auditors' reports. You can read this clearly in the area of nature conservation, in the area of water protection or the water right. You've done wrong. European standards, in particular the Habitats Directive for flora and fauna, have also been taken into account and have not been taken into account. In the case of expropriations – my colleague Wabl has already mentioned a lot of details – one has really been driving over the heads of the people and has quite simple principles with feet. The law of evolution has been misused, the funds of the Republic have been misused, and the experts – that is very important to me – have been forced to take the lead in a policy that is beyond the legal path. And that's the shocking thing about this case of Ennsnah trace. These violations can also be seen in the way in which a road transport policy is finally set aside and how it practically fails to bring solutions to the situation. Solutions would have been there, solutions still exist. However, you have refused these solutions to the population in the Ennstal for 20 years. They have refused to have an existing planning. They have refused to plan in consensus with the population. They have also refused that there is a plan which is being promoted in agreement with nature conservation and with water law. You have refused all of this and have prolonged the problem for 20 years, because you want to push through a sampling plan and do not want to advance environmentally and human-friendly transport planning. That's the wrong, that's the breach you've committed. The third dimension in this matter is democracy. In this committee, which can also be demonstrated very clearly, they have the control rights of the opposition, the control rights of the elected representatives of the people to the fullest extent. They have prevented experts from being invited. They have also prevented those responsible from being loaded. You can read the following: Dr. Schüssel wasn't loaded. – The majority has prevented this. Dr. Martinek was not invited. He could also have provided information on the true facts. – The majority has prevented it. Dr. Krainer could not speak and answer. – The majority has prevented it. Mrs Waltraud Klasnic, too, has not only shrouded herself in silence, she was practically apologized by the majority. It did not have to come before the committee either. Therefore, some of the infringements of the rule of law could not be clarified clearly and clearly. This is the third and essential point for me to see that, in addition to a wrong transport policy, in addition to breaks of the rule of law, there are still massive violations of democratic control rights in the area around the end of the road. These three dimensions of this case will result in the fact that the population as a whole will not only refuse to give you the consent in Styria that a massive protest movement will certainly become apparent in the next elections, but they will also result in you not having the majority in the democratic institutions, such as the Court of Auditors, which you still possess, which you are still using now, which you are still using to partially trample on the rule of law. The vote on Zwentendorf will take place tomorrow at 20. Year of year. Tomorrow you will point out that 20 years ago the population was fortunately right. I'm afraid you'll say that in 20 years, too, in the case of the planning of the Ennsnaher Tresse. There too, the population, the farmers, will surely be right for the resident people in relation to what you plan to do as monstrostic transport planning.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e17470	Mr Edler has now been notified to the House. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e17492	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the end, Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors – a heated debate that will certainly not end today. Ladies and gentlemen! In principle: Where there is economic life, where there is development, a transport infrastructure is essential. I think we should be aware of this. Whoever knows the region personally – I have spent a time of my life there, the area is also my beloved holiday area – and is talking to the people there who know what problems there are. People want a solution from politicians. I am in favour of this – and I have repeatedly expressed this – that people are being involved, that is no question at all. Everything has to be discussed, but there must also be a decision, there must also be a compromise. [[President Dr. Fischer is taking over the presidency again.]] Now on the mood picture in the Subcommittee: Madam President, Mrs Apfelbeck, has said today that we would have taken the Rules of Procedure from the Government. You were chairman, you did this right, I confirm, but you cannot assume that we had failed to comply with the Rules of Procedure in any area. They all had the opportunity to question for hours. Mr Wabl really did. If one calculates the speaking times together, Mr Wabl certainly has two thirds of the speaking time for himself – legitimate! - taken into account. One really cannot say that the opposition could not take advantage of its possibilities, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What is sacred to me as a trade unionist is the right to demonstrate. I have demonstrated and I will also demonstrate when it comes to rights, like many others here; other professional groups have already been addressed. I do not think any of us, especially the Social Democrats, want to question the right of demonstration. For us, there is no question at all that we stand to do so and that we also confess to it. But we are against the fact that occupations are carried out that the rule of law is challenged. This, I believe, must be rejected together, ladies and gentlemen. In connection with the claims for damages which the courts have already decided on in some cases, it has not been shown that injury has occurred somewhere. We will therefore wait for further decisions to be made by the courts. Now to some of the transport policy comments that have been made right here today: I think it was not quite wrong to stress that in recent decades we have in some cases made a wrong transport policy as regards the priority of the road ahead of the rail. Now I repeat what I have said several times: The rail has been disadvantaged up to about ten years ago. Only about ten years ago did we begin to think about and force the rails too. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: How long have you been putting the Minister of Transport?]] Mr Kukacka! It is only recently that Federal Minister Caspar is One with proposals to force railway development. That's right and good. Nevertheless, we will also need roads, especially highways. I say this above all as one who lives in a district on the southeast tangent in Vienna. There, with the consent of the Greens, we have intervened in the landscape of the conservationists – Mr. Wabl, I call the Lobau, the Prateraus, the Danube Island – and even the groundwater. We have had to solve these problems. Nevertheless, I believe – and if you know the situation on the south-east tangent – that we need further action in terms of bypassing roads. Ladies and gentlemen! To sum up, I would like to say: We should also make a political commitment to building as many roads as is necessary, but above all to force railway development as much as possible. We must confess to that! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e17536	The next speaker is Mr. Dr. Herbe. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e17558	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! At the end of a partly turbulent debate, allow me three comments. I would like to make a positive, a fundamental and a critical comment. The positive note: The route of Stainach will now be built. This is a first reasonable and feasible step, a solution due to the Transport Country Council of Styria Hans-Joachim Ressel. Positively, I would like to mention this, is the opposition's consent to this solution. I quote from yesterday's APA to hold this: "The opposition expressed its support for a "consistency-oriented expansion" and for the rapid implementation of the so-called "Ressel" solution." The opposition – and I would like to mention this positively – resists the temptation and fails to abuse this partial solution as a fist for further political demands. Of course – and this should also be noted – this relinquishment is that at the beginning of October the land of Styria could be acquired, which served as a means for the opponents of the race. Ladies and gentlemen! The basic note: We have apparently come to a situation in Austria – all in common, the government parties both in the federal and in the country, the Greens, who have their merits in environmental protection, which are among the driving forces in the promotion of civil rights, the citizens' initiatives and many more – that in a case such as the Instaltrasse on the one hand, nothing is built for decades, although there is agreement that the burden of transport is unbearable, but on the other hand, there is a risk that individual citizens' rights will be violated. – That is, I think, an objective summary. I do not want to go as far as Mr Barmüller, who spoke of theft, or as Mr Wabl, who spoke in the heat of the fight against robbery. But there is, of course, the danger of individual rights being violated. I believe that one should set the goal – and whether it is a visionary one – to create framework conditions that in such cases allow feasible solutions, which are quickly decided and implemented, respect for environmental protection, protection of civil rights and safeguard the rule of law. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A critical remark: Ladies and gentlemen! Individual actors throughout the event have put the coalition discipline of SPÖ on a hard test, partly beyond the reasonable. For example, state councillor Hirschmann of ÖVP enters the Hohe Haus as an information person and says: Where's the Kasperl Theatre now? – Ladies and gentlemen! This is a significant mental attitude, and that is more than just a lack of behaviour and a lack of political childhood. But also in the technical field, the backgrounds have become apparent. The Styrian head of state Klasnic has shone through terrible knowledge gaps. – I quote from a letter from Mrs. Landeshuptmann to the President of the National Council of 9 February. April 1998, in which she says: "Natural protection and related EU procedures are, in turn, exclusively a matter for the country." Ladies and gentlemen! I am really thinking whether I should send the opinion of the Republic of Austria to the head of state on a letter of formal notice from the Commission of April 1997 on the same causa. On the one hand, there is an opinion from the Republic of Austria, on the other hand a Mrs Klasnic, who believes that the country alone is responsible. But be it. We have reached a positive conclusion. The population in the area of Stainach can be helped in the foreseeable future. Thank the Styrian State Councillor Ressel!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e17623	No further words are available. The debate is therefore closed. There is also no wish for a final word on the part of the report. That is why we come to the vote. On the report of the Court of Auditors on the report of the Standing Subcommittee of the Committee of the Regions pursuant to Section 32e of the Rules of Procedure 4 GoG (Treaty) in 1460 of the supplements have the Deputies Wabl, Magistrate. Barmüller and Dr. Grollitsch submitted a referral request. I shall therefore first vote on this referral request and then on the matter itself. I would ask the ladies and gentlemen to refer the report by the Standing Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors back to the Court of Auditors in 1460 of the Supplements to the Court of Auditors in order to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. Therefore, the referral request is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Court of Auditors, the report of the Standing Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors in accordance with § 32e para. 4 GOG in 1460 of the Supplements. I should like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this notice to do so by a sign. – This is decided by a majority. Finally, we shall vote on the request of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure to take note of its report 1460 of the additions. I may ask for a sign in case of consent. – The notice is made by a majority. This item on the agenda is done. 10. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' Special Report (III-136 of Supplements) on medicinal products and medicinal products (1461 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e17706	We're now on the 10th. Agenda item. For a print error correction, Mrs Binder will first be given the floor. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e17725	Ladies and gentlemen! On the written report of the Committee of the Regions, of 29 February, On 1 October 1998, 1461 of the Supplements, I shall make the following corrections: The report should be supplemented by the fact that, in the debate, the honourable Member, Dr Elisabeth Pittermann, too, has taken the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e17743	Thanks a lot. We are now entering the debate. First speaker is MP Dr. Pumberger. The voluntary time limit is proposed at 6 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e17770	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Inconspicuous reports are placed at the end of the agenda, which has already been traditional here. The debate on the Ennsnah route was already very intense, and I do not think I can help to calm down the mood here in plenary either. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to remind you of the urgent question we asked for in June 1996: At that time, we showed the abuses in the pricing of the cures, remedies and cures. A back pass through the body of Mr Hums, then the Minister of Social Affairs. I've never seen him as stunned as I used to be. [[Abg. Hums: At that time the glasses were still bad that you had!]] This has also led to a five-party request for a report from the Ministry of Social Affairs. The Court of Auditors has already completed its report a long time ago, which is now in place. In this, the criticisms of the then urgent request of the liberals are almost fully confirmed. We're glad on the one hand. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] On the other hand, it saddens me, and we must all be saddened when we see that, although the Court of Auditors and our liberals have one right to criticise, social security schemes are unable to implement these criticisms. They continue in the same Schlendrian, and the sufferers are the patients. However, it is necessary to act in the interests of patients to ensure that such blatant price differences do not continue to take place. I recall, for example, the price differences. I also have a board that illustrates the prizes of the famous cervical herb. [[The speaker leans a table to the speaker's desk.]] At that time we found that there is a price difference between 60 S in the purchase and 822 S in the sale. The Court of Auditors notes this even more blatantly: The Vorarlberger health insurance fund pays 53 S, most other health insurance companies pay 998 Schilling for the same product in the same quality. The patient pays if he buys it himself, 53 p. On the other hand, if he is ordered by the doctor and refers to the health insurance fund, he must pay 276 S self-retained, but only has a product worth 53 S. Again and again, the patients are indebted to the inactivity and inactionlessness of social security and, above all, to the government, Mrs. Federal Minister! Why is this not finally a final point? If the social security does not end up with the money, you simply continue to delete benefits. They harass the patients with the extension of the chief physician's obligation. They increase the prescription fees. You're introducing the health certificate fee. They increase health insurance contributions for pensioners and reduce benefits in the same growth. – That’s not how it can be done! We could show you a lot more here. For example, there are subsidies for hearing aids between 7 000 and 7 000 S from the Farmers' Insurance Fund – only 7 000 S, because this is a very poor health insurance fund, although it has now docked to the local health insurance fund, but retains the entire staff status; for these people it seems to have money – and 14 000 S from the Steermärkisches Landeskrankenkasse. This grant is different from cash to cash. A 14-year-old girl with a curved spine must pay 19 000 s in the Styria for a bodice that costs 22,000 s, because the grant there is only 3,000 s. In Upper Austria, on the other hand, only 11 000 s are to be paid. Such a price difference exists in 20 kilometres away from the Styrian border! Ladies and gentlemen! That is why we call for the creation of total contracts at last. The current ones run with 1. ==References== Until then, a new general contract should be established which states that Austria has the same tariffs for the same products of the same quality regardless of the manufacturer. An independent quality check and the acquisition of suitable foreign quality testing results or tariff catalogues should be included in it. Because we don't need to reinvent these. In addition, there should be the possibility of direct settlement with the health insurance companies for all medical care on the basis of adequate basic medical care and the possibility of payment by the patient if he has special wishes. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e17831	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Pittermann. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e17850	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President-in-Office of the Council. High house! Once again, as usual, Mr Pumberger has made everything bad and downgraded. [[The speaker removes those of Abg. Dr. Pumberger's table.]] [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. Khol.]] It was not necessary to request this Court of Auditors report because everything had already been commissioned by the main association. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] An overall contract has been negotiated. However, as usual, they claim that everything is bad. You have made a doctor in a close relationship with a politician worse. At that time, in 1996, they made a senior employee worse. I know from my own experience how loose Mr Pumberger is with his slanders. He's slandered me right here. I was able to prove in every word that it corresponded to the untruth. But you do that again and again, that's your method! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] He slandered me with his accusations back then, I can prove that. Moreover, these allegations were completely wrong, because a public law agency cannot pay someone anything else than the service regulations. You don't research at all, you just claim! We know that – and now I don't want to deal with you any more. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] At the end of the 1980s, the main association had already sought an overall contract with the federal instigation of the bandagists and the orthopedic technicians. The special efforts of the negotiating team in 1994 and 1995 resulted in an overall contract in spring 1996 with the content of Austrian quality-secured, similar product and price design taking into account cost control. This, of course, led to unrest in the market and, in addition, to a parliamentary request that led to this test report. With regard to cures, I note that, as a result of the reduction in trade margins, in 1995, before your urgent request, savings of 500 million schillings and the 1996 financial consolidation package, savings of 725 million schillings were made. Both in the report and in the Committee's debate, there were demands that could mean massive cost increases for social security. – I am surprised to see if the Court of Auditors does not restrict itself to the examination, but also gives us Ezzes. The legislator will probably have sufficient intellectual skills to draw the right conclusions from a report! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Aumayr.]] The Court of Auditors has obviously continued medical training on homeopathy with the help of magazines, for the President has informed us in the Committee that he believes that the health insurance prescription of homeopathics would save costs. – The inclusion of homeopathics, whose effectiveness is not proven by scientific methods, is not a zero sum game! It was also found in the Committee that the Supreme Council of Sanity recognised homeopathy, and I would like to quote that: "But the Supreme Council of Sanity stresses that, as with similar therapeutic measures, the suggestive effect of homeopathy and other healing methods should not be underestimated." – So he's talking about the placebo effect, and I think it's a good thing if a drug only has a placebo effect, because not all homeopathics are so harmless. In the internalist society, there were two case reports on the intake of homeopathic appetiteers as the cause of pulmonary hypertension. In principle, the prescription of medicines from the economic list on health insurance prescriptions in hospital discharges or by ambulances is a service improvement for patients. The hospitals themselves do not only use medications of the economic list, but the most affordable for them. The chief physician's responsibility for only 3 per cent of the cures is indispensable because the social insurance obligation on the contributors must be handled with the funds entrusted to it; in particular, it must carry out a case-by-case examination. In my opinion, that doctors who are not in a contractual relationship with social security are allowed to prescribe health insurance prescriptions is legally worrying. The tables of the report were very interesting. In Vienna, where the chief doctors are easier to reach for the insured, there were few medical prescriptions than in Tyrol or Vorarlberg. That health insurance companies with older policyholders have more expenditure is logical. Unique is the table on cures, according to which some insurances pay less for glasses with a shot of glasses than without. As the officials prefer glasses as they do, I assume that this amount will be added. Those who believe that self retention is cost-effective must look at the civil service. Despite being self-retained, they have the highest frequency of medical visits, the highest cost of fall, they are not healthier, because they need more cures, orthopaedic shoes, hearing aids and other aids. The restructuring process in the area of relief has led to massive savings. The main association aims to establish a non-disbursement benefit system. This requires contracts with interest representatives. Quality-oriented product diversity is in the interests of patients. Product submission is exclusively for social security purposes, the products are examined by a specialist advisory board, which has been working since 1997, the chair of which are the university professors Poigenfürst and Kotz. An overall contract has been designed and implemented by 22 health insurance companies with the following principles: First: Create a classification related to the function. Secondly, Market survey by social security providers on products offered. Third: Austrian quality and suitability test. Fourth: Development of a pricing system; for direct calculation only the cheapest product and those up to 10 percent more expensive are available. Fifth, you open a bottle Elimination of non-transparent payment on delivery of other or modified products. Social security therefore fulfils its tasks in a forward-looking and correct manner. We Socialists are satisfied with this development. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Ask the patients!]] Perhaps your patients are not satisfied with you! I can already imagine that! The Vienna patients are satisfied! We are aware of our political responsibility. We do not demand more stringent controls and at the same time complain of the red tape. We do not call for increased self-sufficiency, but for systematic controls. We have an efficient, recognizable health system for blessing our population. We will protect it from unwarranted attacks and will continue to expand it in time.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e17949	The next speaker is Mrs Klara Motter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e17968	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President-in-Office of the Council. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Pittermann! - She's not listening now. I'd rather tell her personally; I think that's better. Ladies and gentlemen! This special report by the Court of Auditors on medicinal products and medicinal products once again gives us the opportunity to discuss the practice of awarding and pricing, which is primarily the responsibility of the main association of social security schemes. There have already been significant shortcomings in this area in 1996 as a result of a report by the Ministry of Social Affairs. My previous speaker, Dr. Pumberger, has already confirmed this. If one compares this report with the 1996 report, further criticism is appropriate and no lobbying, as has just been said by my predecessor. Even if there were improvements by the Court of Auditors during the review period – for example, excessive prices have been corrected and some savings have been made – one cannot be satisfied. Even today, one must seriously wonder why the main association of social security for decades was unable to enter into modern contracts, and why he tolerated the so high-principled pricing by the prize commission of the social partners, which led to overpriced prices for many years. However, there is also a failure of the Supreme Supervisory Body, for the Ministry of Health has for years failed to deal with the pricing of cures and cures. As a result of this failure, ladies and gentlemen, over many years the citizens of this country have been asked to pay the cash, which is not justified. Mrs. Minister! I have already pointed out in the Committee the causes of excessive pricing due to unjustified price agreements, lack of economic efficiency and lack of awareness of costs among social security institutions, and I repeat today that the causes of Austrian social security are to be sought in monopolistic and pro-prising structures. Mrs. Minister! I know you do not share my opinion. Nevertheless, I believe that a modern social and health policy adapted to time should not continue to be oriented to traditional chamber thinking, but that in future economic methods must take place in management. This means that service companies are to be made from the offices in particular. We should therefore say goodbye to the state molochs. In the future, we need more transparency, comparability and competitiveness in health care. However, this can only be achieved through free choice between health insurance funds. Mrs. Minister! I cannot understand the picture of the horror of Germany in this regard, as you have once again painted it on the wall in the Committee. Because the insurance obligation, as we Liberals want it, is already practised in the Netherlands and Scandinavia with excellent experience. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] You know this, Mrs Minister, because your officials took part in a convention on EU social systems at the beginning of this year, and I assume they have reported it to you. They could see there black and white, that freedom of choice and competition between health insurance companies reduce and do not increase costs. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! I therefore expect you to pursue social policy offensively, creatively and perhaps curiously and not to be satisfied with old-fashioned dogmas. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Mr President of the Court of Auditors. I know from the Committee that you do not conform to my criticism of the report. Nevertheless, I think it would be useful to go back to it. I appreciate you and your officials as intelligent and sensitive people. If you did not, you could not fulfill your task as examiner of the Republic at all. Mr President. Nevertheless, the citizens of this Republic and also we from the Liberal Forum are putting expectations in you. We also put these expectations in you due to the legal order that you received. – I quote from § 2: They have to check whether the conduct of the state economy is economical, economic and appropriate. It should also be noted that the Court of Auditors must by no means limit itself to a mere minor review, but rather that it is obliged to exercise the possibility of reducing or avoiding expenditure in its checks. – End of the quote. Mr President. In the Committee you have told me that you can be happy if the main association has at least verbally included some of your suggestions. You told me that you had achieved less with more criticism, because the masters of the main association felt that they had stepped on the slip. Mr President. In view of this, I must say clearly to you: This does not correspond to the presentation of the Liberal Forum by a strong control authority! For for us, the criticism of the Court of Auditors must be unpleasant and not toothless! Mr President. Let me ask you a question. According to a 15 o'clock APA report today, "NEWS" calls for a raw report Your house: "Teacher package brought lower savings than expected." – Without going into the further content, I ask you: Why do raw reports first come into the media? Why do we have to remove these raw reports from the media? And why are most raw reports more strongly formulated than the final reports? – I hope that I will get an answer from you to these three questions today! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I hope that the positive proposals of the Court of Auditors contained in this special report will be included and that, Mrs Minister, you will also be able to make reforms in the field of cures and cures through structural reforms in social security as a whole.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e18054	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Steindl. The speaking time is set to 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e18075	Mrs. Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I must admit that the request of the liberals for special examination of the conduct of the legal health insurance institutions and the main association had its right; this must be clearly stated. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Meisinger.]] But not because of alleged machinations, scandals, proportional occupations, and so on, of which this request was to be read between the lines, but because the Court of Auditors' examination clearly showed that there is less bureaucracy in the social security sector, more flexibility in expecting, and that there are also significant price savings in certain system changes. It is thanks to the Court of Auditors that there have really been savings of hundreds of millions of schilling for the individual insured persons... [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Talk about the SPÖ! They don't believe this!]] This would never have been achieved if the Court of Auditors had not examined it. The fact that the Court of Auditors is quite correct in its report has proved the debate in the Committee, as has the debate here in the House. Mrs Pittermann has criticized the Court of Auditors for allowing them to make recommendations, while Mrs Motter of the Liberal Forum has criticised the fact that the Court of Auditors had failed in its report. The truth is probably in the middle. I therefore believe that this Court of Auditors report is of great importance and that the Court of Auditors has clearly identified the shortcomings. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smolle.]] This debate in the House and also in the Committee proves to me that it is important to have independent officials in the Court of Auditors and that civil servants or Pragmatization in many areas – such as the Court of Auditors – should not be affected. [[Complaints with the EIA and representatives of the Free Trade Unions]] – On the contrary: We must try to expand these rights too. Where would this lead, for example, if Members tried to influence reports accordingly? Therefore, the ÖVP stands for this civil service, especially in the Court of Auditors, and also for Pragmatization. I would now like to comment on several points: Point 1: the official price scheme. These medicines are subject to the official price regime, which has competence of the Federal Ministry of Labour, Health and Social Affairs. Although these prices can be clearly defined, they were not made until 1995, that is, until the report was drawn up, but only applied price procedures were carried out in the direction of price increases. The providers have therefore applied for, and this request was granted either as a whole or not as a whole, but as a result of a price increase. It was only after the Court of Auditors had shown that it was also possible to carry out effective pricing procedures. What happened? – A low-priced effect. One can only note that this possibility – the method of the usual price procedure – is very useful. The Minister's argument that quality has its price is only partly correct, because we then saw, when these usual pricing procedures were carried out, that it is very likely that price reduction would be possible. One could say a lot more about this report, but I would like to confine myself to the very essential. Point 2: Chef's approvals. We know that certain medications in Austria are subject to the rule of thumb: very desirable or very expensive drugs. A cross-sectional audit by the Court of Auditors has shown that these directives of the main association are very often bypassed or difficult to implement. An example: In a remote village a patient needs a certain medication, he goes to the doctor, gets the prescription and receives the medicine in the pharmacy. In retrospect, there is the stamp from the chief doctor. – I think it can't be, and that's not how it was wanted. It is therefore necessary to consider whether there or there these chief medical duties and controls could not be transferred to another area. There is an example in Vorarlberg, where positive lists have been created, from which it is quite clear which medications are approved for the insured – without the obligation of chief physician. There are still a lot of examples. However, I would like to address a next problem: the right of prescription of hospitals. The Court of Auditors also believes - I know this is very controversial and is also much debated - that the right of prescription should be given to hospitals, because it is very common for a patient who has been in the hospital to come home and ask the doctor for a medicine he has been given in the hospital; the doctor usually gives it, and in retrospect it should be sanctioned. There too, I think, we should demand more flexibility. So there could be negotiations on compliance with the directives on economic writing and, in addition, gave the hospitals the right of prescription. The range of cost contributions has already been discussed. There are thanks to God for some efforts to unite, some waiting in the waiting room. I am good things, Mrs Minister, that we can also take further steps there. On the subject raised by Mrs Motter in the Committee: compulsory insurance versus insurance. The ÖVP acknowledges the principle of compulsory insurance, because first of all every person, regardless of his social status, is involved – without regard to risks. Secondly, there is no choice, but the individual is not exposed to any arbitrariness either. Thirdly, it can be proved that in our system the administrative costs are much lower than in the insurance system promoted by the LIF. There is another issue in this context: whether or not to combine insurance companies. In 1992 there were the Häussermann study with 907 recommended measures. 706 of these measures have already been implemented. Some of these are in implementation. Social security schemes have changed in the direction of civil kindness. Finally, I would like to say: I believe that the Court of Auditors' examination was justified. There was and still exists immense savings potential. The ÖVP is committed to the system of compulsory insurance. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e18129	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Gabriela Moser. Would you like to set a certain time? [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: 3 minutes! Because of the colleague Langthaler!]] – Time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e18159	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker has already voted in favour of the Court of Auditors; there is no add-on, I certainly underline that. What is more important than the Court of Auditors' auditing activity is whether the consequences of what the Court of Auditors criticises, what the Court of Auditors offers in terms of proposals for improvement, which the Court of Auditors really strongly recommends to implement. Mrs. Minister! So far, what have you done to ensure that the cost of cures which the Court of Auditors considers too high is actually reduced? It is there to be read that Austria, as the factory price of the remedies reaches, is the total of the 12th. ==References====External links==* Official website Make sure that the margins are too high. I know that's a negotiating object. In any case, it must be stressed that the cost of the cures in the pharmacies is reduced and that we are at least 12 in this area. If not reached the 13. This is the point of implementation. The second point: It has been argued that there is a certain monopoly in the Bandagist sector and that there is little invitation to tender. I ask you again, Mrs Minister: What are you doing to enable multiple providers to make their proposals and to make calls to tender to a greater extent? I have heard that the disabled have no freedom of choice at all, that the monopoly in this area is very strong. As a result of these results and in the sense of better cost-structuring, competition must finally be allowed. Next point: Mrs. Minister! What have you done so that parallel imports can lead to savings? My predecessor has already made comments on the duty of chief physician. This could also be done more unbureaucratically and therefore cost-consciously. One last question – in my opinion also the most important one –: The Court of Auditors recommended that homeopathics be included in the list of medicinal products. Mrs. Minister! What have you done in this context? Finally, I would like to thank the Court of Auditors, and, Mrs Minister, I would also like to thank you for your implementation. – When is it possible?
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e18208	The next speaker is Mr Wallner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e18229	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! This report by the Court of Auditors on the issue of remedy and cures shows that many reforms have already been achieved, but there will still be some reform work to be done. However, I think it is important to note that, from a social democratic point of view, it must be the top objective of all reforms in health insurance that all people, regardless of their income, can share in the same way in the progress of medicine. In the case of cost reductions, quality assurance must always be a priority. What were the criticisms that led to this special audit by the Court of Auditors? – Only two keywords: unsavory practices and overprices. Anyone who knows the practice and looks at the report knows that these accusations have, of course, been formulated. It should also be noted that maladministration has already been eliminated and that necessary improvements are constantly being made for the benefit of the insured. Ladies and gentlemen! What has been possible to change since 1996, since the occasion that led to the Court of Auditors' audit? – For example, coordination efforts have been intensified in this area in order to achieve the same quality of care for insured persons throughout Austria. Thus, in December 1996, 22 insurance companies negotiated by the main association with the Federal Government of Bandagists and Orthopedic Engineers concluded similar negotiations in the field of healing and aid. Finally, an Austrian-wide agreement was not possible due to the results of the negotiations which led to a movement on the market and to new regionally more favourable offers, and therefore a total Austrian solution was not useful at that time. In the medium term, however, the convergence of contract systems is expected due to the current development. In 1997, as recommended by the Court of Auditors, the main association set up a Advisory Board on Rescue and Aids, which, following a qualitative examination and taking into account economic conditions, gives recommendations to insurance institutions for the implementation of the relevant contracts. Due to the market transparency effected by the Advisory Board and the associated competitive situation and with regard to the comparable products, the prices of numerous articles have already fallen noticeably. This is, of course, an advantage for patients. In 1997, for the first time, a 1.8 percent reduction was achieved because of the reform measures already set in place in the field of relief and aid. Austria – some of which has already been discussed, yet a certain pride is quite appropriate here – ranks among the 15 EU Member States at the welcoming 11. Job. Ladies and gentlemen! With regard to the medicinal products sector, the pharmaceutical industry and social security have significantly reduced costs in this area by two measures: First: In 1995, a reduction in trading margins was carried out in the wholesale sector; the savings amounted to 500 million schillings. Secondly, The main association was also able to obtain price reductions in coordination with the pharmaceutical industry in connection with necessary financial consolidation measures for 1997. To sum up, it must be said that the will to carry out necessary adaptations in the field of cures and cures is quite present. Many progress in reform has been made. The Court of Auditors report certainly gives new and important impetus to further changes to the benefit of patients, for the benefit of people in our country.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e18285	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e18306	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It has already been stressed that our request for review of the social security institutions by the Court of Auditors had its right. I am very glad that this has been recognised here too. I would particularly like to see this Court of Auditors report really lead to changes, in order to improve patients and social security institutions, to make them more economical and to improve the supply. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mrs. Minister! However, I would like to draw your attention to a number of shortcomings which, despite the control of the Court of Auditors, have persisted or have emerged. It is true that some of the consequences of the Court of Auditors' report have been misappropriated. The checkouts partially poured out the child with the bath. I would like to give you some examples that really justify a massive criticism. I would ask you to make sure that this is done or not with the intention of the health insurance companies. For example, while it was possible to provide everything at an institute in the past, such as wheelchair, bed, walking aid and so on, it is now the case that the social insurance institutions have concluded contracts with the individual medicinal products companies through a particular device. That is, if you need a wheelchair, you can only go to the company – I now call names – Matzka, you need a walker, you have to go to the company Bstand, you need a bed, then you have to go to the company XY. That is, if you need three or four different reliefs, you have to run from one company to another. What this means for someone who is sick and disabled, we can imagine very well. Since there is certainly a worse supply in this area, Mrs Minister, I would ask you to accept this matter. Perhaps the system is cheaper, but not all that is cheaper is also better. [[Abg. Koppler: Right the other way!]] I think you have to do something because I find it inhuman to send people from one company to another. The health insurance companies think they could better control if they only provide a company with a cure. I admit that it may be easier, but it is certainly also possible to control well, especially in the age of the computer and other technical facilities for social security institutions, if the various companies, as in the past, offer various reliefs and can provide the patients with care. Furthermore, according to my information, this Court of Auditors report has established a new economic situation, and there are calls for tenders for certain equipment for a period of about two years. There are beds, wheelchairs and so on for two years. The supplement is awarded, and then the monthly payment is made. This, in turn, has led to a poorer position for those who are concerned, because in the meantime, within the two years, new technical developments are also taking place. There are new wheelchairs, new beds and so on. But they are called out of the accursed quota, from what was ordered two years ago. As a result, companies that did not get to the train during the first call for tender will not be able to move within the next two years, they will no longer have a chance to participate in the competition, and patients will not get into the enjoyment of the most modern articles. Mr Wallner said that all people should be able to participate evenly in the progress of medicine. I'll give it to him. However, it is necessary to ensure that the new technical devices are also advertised. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I believe that a new scandal is emerging if there is no change in the areas I have mentioned.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e18357	The next speaker is Mrs Dr. Moser-Starrach. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e18378	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== In June 1996, it was requested to carry out a special examination of the conduct of statutory health insurance schemes, including the main association of the Austrian social security funds, in particular as regards remedy and healing, taking into account the economy, efficiency and effectiveness of the organisational structure. That had its accuracy, as did my colleague Mag. Steindl already did. The as always excellent report of the Court of Auditors makes significant recommendations. Increased co-operation between insurance institutions should create better, more favourable conditions. A cure and cure counsel should help. Insurance companies should be able to obtain offers themselves, possibly through their own tenders and direct purchases, to obtain substantial approvals. Redemption of the electoral medical prescriptions should be debureaucratised and thus facilitate long-term medication. Certain homeopathics should be included in the prescription. – All in all, closer to practical, more patient-friendly guidelines. If we are already improving and making proposals, I would like to address two family policy points: The still unofficial opinion on the Court of Auditors' report of September 1998 is addressed to the Department of Prenatal Medicine. In addition to the conventional use-helpful range of services, the detection and care of malformations, hereditary diseases and chromosomal damage, therapeutic and treatment forms, in particular genetic advice, ultrasound diagnosis, fruit water, mother cake and umbilical cord puncture, are offered. The departments have the highest care capacities. However, utilization could be even greater if not only throughout the country, but internationally recognized departments, as well as laboratories for extracorporal fertilization, i.e. for the in vitro fertilization method, for which 3,000 patients per year would be associated with lower costs for the sterility patients in Austria. We have an exemplary health system in Austria, but unfortunately the in vitro fertilization method is not included in it. Nevertheless, I would like to address and also improve the lot of these couples, especially if evidenced and written in parallel with existing diseases such as endometriosis or colpitis accompanying therapies have been rejected several times. In addition to the UK and Sweden, Austria is the toughest country in this area. I have already promised improvements in this direction in 1995, so I am speaking to it again today in a very specific way. In Germany, doctors have already made special agreements with the health insurance companies in 1982. The health insurance companies take over the full cost of up to four treatment cycles. About 20 percent of the in vitro productions are crowned with success, a number almost comparable to the natural conception. The success rate will be even higher because research does not give way to loosening. I come to the conclusion and I would like to address the second feasible amendment: Women who stand shortly before birth and – why not – get into mental distress should have the opportunity to visit anonymous birth centres before they put their babies away in garbage tons or "get rid of" them in rivers in shock and despair. Life could be preserved. How much can a life cost? today is the question in a special report from the "Kurier" about the excellent symposium "Future of Health", which was published on 21 and 22. This year was organised in cooperation with the ORF, "Austria", the Industrial Union and the European Commission. There are so many adoption desires and unfulfilled child seines. From a medical point of view, doctors, primary doctors and clinic boards see no obstacle. Therefore, financial reasons for us should not have any weight in this regard either. – How much can a life cost?
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e18427	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Chief. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e18449	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Mrs. Federal Minister! As has been pointed out, the activity of the Court of Auditors initiated by the Liberal Group in this context has actually brought a respectable saving effect. However, I would like to address Mr Pittermann: What would it be like if these savings had already occurred in 1959, at the first request of the Court of Auditors, to redesign the then valid Reich list of orthopaedic aids and to adapt them to the circumstances at that time, and not only about 35 years later, after intermediate criticisms until 1989 when I think that this issue has been completely properly mounted by the Court of Auditors towards the Carinthian District Hospital? I therefore believe that Mrs Pittermann is wrong on this point. In fact, it is very much up to the Court of Auditors to make recommendations to the legal system in order to eliminate and react in such a way. In fact, the criticism only meets us fully. From 1959 to 1996, more than 35 years, we, including the Ministry and the main association, have simply ignored the criticism of the Court of Auditors regarding redesign as a whole, and also concerning the needs of the disabled, after redesigning the catalogue, we have approved and tolerated conditions. However, at least in the two years that have passed since then, about one billion schillings could be saved. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If I were to count this back to 35 years, I must say that we could have saved many reforms in this area, and perhaps we could have done something that the colleague Moser, too, rightly mounted for reproductive medicine, and should not have been squeaky. And even those who were in the government in these offices at the time, and who have been responsible for it since 1959, should now take their own noses and admit that the alleged scarcity in this area is perhaps also partly homemade. Perhaps we will learn more from the Court of Auditors' recommendations for this area than in the past few years. For one must be aware of us: The Court of Auditors is only as strong as the majority of Parliament is willing to make recommendations, suggestions and criticisms in such a way as to make a breakthrough. Another word from my point of view about homeopathy. For a long time I think it is desirable that homeopathic products should be included in the corresponding lists and also honoured by the local health insurance fund or other cash registers for two reasons: [[Complaints with the liberals]] Firstly, because I see homeopathy, like the Council of Sanity, as a very helpful and additional complementary medical treatment method with high chances of success, and secondly because this measure would be appropriate to restrict the activity of charlatans who have widened in this sector. The latter would be in the interest of patients and a proper handling of a responsible and scientifically sound form of homeopathy. Thus, people could be prevented from getting to the new gurus, which shamelessly exploit the patients in areas where they themselves have to pay. I do not think that homeopathy should be just a matter for the rich citizens in this country, but for all levels of population!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e18504	The next speaker is Mr Hums. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e18525	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! This audit report by the Court of Auditors certainly contains a broad range of constructive criticisms. In addition, in the findings, it is also largely in line with the study report already published by the Ministry of Social Affairs on 31 December. It was sent to Parliament in October 1996. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: The report was soft!]] They can read that the report is far from in line with what was said by the liberals on 13 December. ==References====External links== Now, if it is said that the whole thing has been initiated by the liberals, I would like to remind you: ==References== In June 1996, the measures had long since started to reduce costs without losing quality and the structural measures that led to the consolidation of health insurance finances. These were launched in 1994, 1995 and 1996, partly before the decision was taken and partly already effective. In addition, these measures have led to health insurance, of which Dr Povysil was in the 13th century. In June 1996, they declared that they were close to bankruptcy, that today they have an active conduct without loss of quality. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Something has to be clear to us: It is a pleasure that medicine can become more and more, and people are happy to live longer and longer. At a zero rate, however, there will never be! But it is a permanent challenge – and no one can say that something is perfect – to constantly carry out further improvements and cost reductions without losing quality. That will always be necessary. And, unlike other countries, we want to make these possibilities of medicine available to everyone regardless of their age and income! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The relevant measures had already been implemented in 1996 and were effective, otherwise they would not be so today! I would have expected at least one Member of the Liberals who spoke of bankruptcy at the time and all this to be recognized - but perhaps it is still coming - that positive things have happened in this context. – On this occasion we must also thank the employees in health insurance and the employees in the field of the Social Ministry! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On this occasion I would like to say something: ==References== In June 1996, you, ladies and gentlemen of the Liberals, attacked the Director-General of the General Association, Dr. Probst, and subjected him to almost mafia acts and accused him of being unreasonable. The Court of Auditors' report shows that nothing was true! On the contrary! Dr. Probst has made a massive contribution to the fact that today's health insurance, which you already talked about, is so good! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] At the time, I told Dr. Haider, who is not here now, that I expect him to be, if the tests show that these attacks on Dr. Probst were incorrect – and this has turned out to be more than a hundred percent – in the sense of fairness and correctness here in this House by Dr. Probst for these attacks of the 13th century. June 1996 apologies! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: What has been revealed is not important to you? Excuse me for the mismanagement!]] You still have speakers on the list. Mrs. Dr. Povysil! I hope that you will not be able to apologise to the Director-General-General of the main association, and thus, in turn, to all employees in the main association and in the social security bodies who have not done any unreasonable acts, but who, on the contrary, lead social security in the way that is hardly found in another country. Mrs Motter! I always appreciate your contributions. However, to your comparison with Germany, I would like to say: Please compare the amount of health insurance contributions and the quality of the benefits in Germany and with us! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Then you will find out: We have a health insurance with top benefits! This should remain the case in the future, and we must not forget that it is always necessary to further improve and address constructive criticism. That is why I would also like to thank the staff and the President of the Court of Auditors very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e18616	Mr Pumberger has referred to an actual correction. I would draw his attention to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e18638	Mr President. Mr Hums said that before our urgent question on 13 March, In June 1996, all steps were taken to reduce costs and reduce costs. I am indeed correct in saying that in the report by the Minister of Social Affairs, Hums, of 31 December 1988, the Council of Ministers of the Social Affairs and Social Affairs of the European Communities, of the European Communities, of the European Communities and of the United Kingdom, of the European Communities, of the United Kingdom, of the United Kingdom and of the United Kingdom, of "As sales in the wholesale and pharmaceutical sector showed above average growth in 1995 and in particular in the first four months of 1996, the main association, with a letter dated 29 June 1996, has shown itself to be above average. ==References====External links== June 1996! – "at the request of the Federal Minister for Health and Cosument Protection to examine a recent drop in the number of drug wholesalers and pharmacies." [[Abg. Hums: A new reduction!]] That's clear afterwards! It also says – I quote –: "The potential for saving in 1997 in the medicinal products sector" – half a year after the 13th century. June 1996! – "in the amount of one billion schillings, in addition to the already treated reduction in the trade range, narrower price bands are to be achieved with equally effective preparations." All of this is contained in this report. So all of this should only be effective for some time after our urgent request!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e18679	The next speaker is Mrs Povysil. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e18698	Mr President. Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Hums, the fact that social security savings have been made without loss of quality is incorrect. I will prove this to you during my speech. The Court of Auditors has also given us full rights in our criticism of cures and cures. Today, however, I wanted to deal with an extensive subject relating to the social security institutions, namely the obligation of the chief physician, but now I have also decided, because of the limited speaking time, to tell you a case to show you how the savings without loss of quality in social security are really going on. I would like to tell you the case of a patient, a lady I personally know very well; therefore I also know this case well. It is about an older lady who has an incurable eye suffering and will slowly but surely become almost blind. This elderly, flashy and active lady has first turned to the cashier's doctor, her ophthalmologist, who has confirmed this suffering. She then went to a specialist in Vienna, who also confirmed this suffering. The diagnosis was similar. She has been operated on at the AKH in Linz, as far as it was possible, and there too this diagnosis was confirmed. So she was with three different doctors, and their diagnosis was confirmed every time. Then she went to the optician. The optician pointed out to her that, as a glasses correction is no longer possible, the local bank would make it possible to get a reading computer. It is, as I said, flashing, but can't read anymore because of her suffering. With a very bright, bright computer and great magnification, there is the only way for them to be able to read. She has requested this computer via her optician. But what happened? She was sent by the health insurance fund to trust the health insurance company, which works in a hospital. She has already had three opinions on the same diagnosis, including one from a health insurance doctor, who is obviously not a trust doctor of the cash register. Instead, she was once again sent to a trusted doctor of the cash register, who worked in a hospital, who asked her: What to do You're there, aren't you? – But of course he confirmed this diagnosis to her. This diagnosis then went back to the optician, and the optician passed on the information and the diagnosis to the local health fund. Then nothing happened for weeks, absolutely nothing. Finally, the Landeskrankenkasse informed us that a home visit by an employee of the health insurance department will take place. This employee, who does not The doctor now had to assess whether the patient could properly set up the computer at home. This employee came, the patient wanted to show him the apartment, it was obviously just as neat for him, and he stamped the application, said she got the computer, and left. Then nothing happened again for weeks. Then he returns because the computer – as it was notified – is unfortunately broken by God. Then she has waited again, the computer is delivered and connected, but does not work, unfortunately it has to be transported back to Vienna because it is not functional. Ladies and gentlemen! This woman has a progressive eyeache! This woman's gonna be blind! Until she gets the computer after this path of suffering, this bureaucracy, and all the horrors, she's probably blind, possibly dead. – I leave you the assessment of this case and the assessment of the work of social security itself!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e18744	The next speaker is Mr Koppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e18762	Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to comment briefly on the actual correction of Mr Pumberger. Mr Pumberger, I think you have not listened to honourable Members, because Mr Hums has not disputed that, logically, there will always be savings. He said, however, that measures were started and also implemented. – That was Mr Hum’s statement. I ask you to listen a little more closely! Mrs Povysil! To describe your case: It is possible that it has done so. The case is very unfortunate, I admit. However, just as honourable Member Pumberger has repeatedly made the mistake that you are coming out and describing some of the cases that you cannot understand, in which you cannot verify whether this is so at all true. In the case of cases referred to by honourable Member Pumberger, we have already found that some of what he has described here is not at all true. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Give an example!]] However, I would like to stress that I hope that the case that was just explained did not go as far as it was described, because that would be very unfortunate. I say that very clearly. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The present special report on medicinal products and cures has made it clear how important a strong representation of patients and health care professionals is. We Social Democrats are committed to social health insurance as an instrument that can best perform this role of representation and - as I mean - also perform. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! On the Court of Auditors' special report on medicinal products and cures, I can also say from my point of view that Austria still has opportunities for action at the drug prices, which has already been carried out, and that the efforts of the Social Ministry and the Social Security Committee have so far taken a good deal. Efforts towards further price reductions must be pursued with emphasis. This concern is all the more important than one knows that the cost of drugs in health insurance is currently double-digitally increasing per year. However, the drug price, ladies and gentlemen, will only be a point of departure. A very essential reason for the unabated increase in drug spending lies in the replacement of low-priced items by corresponding expensive items. It can now be explained in individual cases that earlier articles, which have just been placed on the market, are more expensive than already established. However, this structural shift cannot be a one-way road. In health care too, ladies and gentlemen, savings must be used. The health-care exchange must be a saving, not a rationalization of medical services at the expense of patients! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This appeal is directed primarily at those responsible for the prescription of medicines. I believe that everyone has to contribute to ensuring that our health care system, which is funded in solidarity, is functioning. We should give our social health insurance the tools it needs to achieve the following objectives: Needs orientation: Each patient, after the last state of medicine, receives the medical articles he needs due to his health condition. The necessary articles must be made available as cheaply as possible. The financial risk must not be imposed on the patient. Health insurance must bear the price risk in the event of payment of medical benefits. In health care, social health insurance must be able to act for the benefit of patients and the insured. I really do not need to stress that this is particularly important from a social democratic point of view, because that is well known. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! On this occasion I would like to thank the employees in social health insurance as well as the staff in the ministry very much, and also the Court of Auditors for my warmest thanks. – Happy luck!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e18798	The President of the Court of Auditors has the floor to speak. Please, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e18816	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Before I turn to the report on the agenda, I would like to address a question raised by Mrs Motter, who is not directly concerned with the special report, but who has general reports or raw reports from the Court of Auditors. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) They asked where the raw report, which was written in the newspaper today, came from. I assume that you have my report, which I have seen in a newspaper, and I would like to say that: This is, of course, not the raw report of the Court of Auditors, but just a few comments from this report. And I can tell you that it is clear to us from the way in which this news release has been kept that this report comes from the ministry concerned and that the relevant news which the newspaper has received does not come from the Court of Auditors. In this context, they have also expressed the view that the report on raw materials is more strongly formulated than the reports which then come to the National Council. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) You'll have to keep me guilty of any evidence on this, then that's just not right. The fact is, however, that the so-called raw reports to be submitted to the audited body do not yet contain or cannot contain the opinion of the audited body. And because only the Court of Auditors' opinion is expressed in the raw report, perhaps the impression that it has been more pointed is that it has been kept tighter. That's not true, though. In contrast to the reports dealt with in the National Council, these raw reports are still without an opinion, so in these reports there is still a lack of the opposition shown by the body under review. As I have said, this false impression may arise. However, the Court's wording is in any case the same. The report, which comes to the National Council, clearly, in the sense of the fair trial, should also take into account the opinion of the body examined. The claim that a different division is used in the raw report must be rejected, however, because this is not true. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we should talk less about the form and more about the content. I think that the content has to be put to the fore, and this report - and I am now really only going to use this special report, which the Court of Auditors has presented to the National Council in connection with the examination of cures and remedies - is a very good example of this, because it is rich in content and has kept pace with success. The Court of Auditors has made a request from the National Council a very comprehensive examination. There have been no fewer than 15 social security schemes, and examinations have also been carried out in the Federal Ministry of Labour, Health and Social Affairs. The Court of Auditors has shown in this examination a number of possibilities for improvement which it has expressed in very detailed terms in its report, e.g. the fact that prices are excessive, that, in particular, different prices are required regionally, for which differences were not comprehensible, and that certain bureaucrats have intervened in procedures. As an example, the Court of Auditors has made a very detailed statement on this point. Of course, after making these findings, the Court of Auditors has derived from them its recommendations, because it is a very essential task of the Court of Auditors in the context of its reporting. This is not to be disputed in this House. He not only expressed his recommendations very clearly, but he also felt satisfied that some of these recommendations had already been complied with even during the examination by the audited bodies. I do not think that any other action by the Court of Auditors in connection with these recommendations or the formulation of these recommendations could have achieved a better outcome. Mrs Motter! Now I can go back You are replying to: The Court of Auditors' report was not sufficiently well formulated for them. In this context, I would like to point out that the report in the Section does not differ from other reports of the Court of Auditors, but I would like to emphasise once again that it is crucial whether the criticism of the Court of Auditors is constructive, whether the recommendations it makes can be implemented, whether they are realistic, whether they can be moved in cooperation with the audited bodies or whether they are successful. Again, content is a matter of form, and it cannot be used with the fact that a report by the Court of Auditors is unpleasant. On the contrary, the Court of Auditors has of course to attach particular importance to the fact that a report has given rise to considerable success, and in this respect, this report has been a good example of the fact that the Court of Auditors' activity has been highly successful. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In the course of the examination, savings of around 100 million schillings were made, and further savings of more than 700 million schillings were made. This is far more than the double of two budgets of the Court of Auditors. . I say that once again to express on the one hand, in this way, the importance which the Court of Auditors has in budgetary terms and, on the other hand, to show the success it has achieved through this audit. I believe that this very great success should be thanked to the officials of the Court of Auditors in every respect, in particular by not attacking the basis of professional civil service in the Court of Auditors, but by giving auditors the certainty that their independence is preserved and that no one is thinking of questioning this independence, which is so much appreciated by the examiners in the examination and which they need. In view of the success which has taken place, I believe that the examination is evidenced, on the one hand, by the efficiency of the Court of Auditors and the quality of the auditors of the Court of Auditors and, on the other hand, by the potential for savings in the public sector. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And I agree with some of my previous speakers, including Mr Koppler, when I make it clear that, in the context of the word'saving potential', it cannot be a question of reducing the benefits to the benefit of the insured, but that it is a question of providing services more economically, where it is possible to benefit from these possibilities. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I therefore believe that this examination is a very good example of the fact that the cooperation between the National Council, which is the subject of this audit task, enables the Court of Auditors and the audited bodies, which have already demonstrated themselves very well during the examination and after that in the implementation of the Court of Auditors' recommendations, to achieve something for the Republic. In the end, it is a success for the taxpayer for whom the Court of Auditors is present, because it is his taxpayers who can be saved in this way, it is his taxpayers for whom the Court of Auditors is acting, and it is his taxpayers that we all have to pay attention to.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e18897	Mrs Apfelbeck has come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e18918	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for the explanations he has just given us. In view of the lack of time, however, I am continuing with the remarks made by my colleague, Mr President, who has referred to the ARGE Orthopedics. This ARGE Orthopedic was founded by the son-in-law of the Innungsmeister, Dr. Ivanic. However, this ARGE also worked before without an official order, but with the approval of the main association on a bandage and prosthesis catalogue. This ARGE, located at the private address of Dr. Ivanic, offered this catalogue for prior payment of 3 000 S on its account, and only after receipt of this payment did the companies also receive the tender documents from the ARGE. Each project submitted had to be paid for, for the first ten per 5 000 s, for the next ten per 4 000 s and for all 3 000 s, payable, as said, to the account of Dr. Gerd Ivanic. This is to be read in the Court of Auditors report on item 29. Companies who did not want to pay were simply not included in this catalogue, so their products could not be sold anymore. – The Mafia is called "protection payments". For me, there is another question: Why are there different insurance benefits depending on the federal state, but the same contribution payments? Why is a Burgenland insurer only half worth as much as an insured person in another federal state? I think that's a human scandal, Mrs. Federal Minister! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In Austria, man is insured not according to his performance and suffering, but according to his birthplace, place of residence or place of work. Why does a farmer receive a 7 000 S grant for his hearing aid, a 14 000 S insured at a Steermärkisches Landeskrankenkasse ( Steiermärkisches Krankenkasse), and a 14 000 S paid the entire hearing aid at a Wiener Landeskrankenkasse insurer? I ask you: Is the hearing of a farmer worth so much less to the state than that of a Viennese? All these new schemes have made social security savings, but have guaranteed higher incomes to the bandagists. All of this, however, has been done at the expense of the insured, ladies and gentlemen. It is rightly the accusation that the main association did not perceive the interests of the insured – free of charge according to the motto: What is wrong must also remain wrong!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e18960	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Gaßner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e18982	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! You can turn it and turn it as you want: Even before the special audit of the Court of Auditors, which began in 1996, social security institutions sought restructuring and measures for permanent cost reductions. The negotiations of social security with the contracting parties which began in 1994 led to considerable unrest on the market and, as a result, to that audit of the Court of Auditors. However, prior to the audit of the Court of Auditors, social security was able to record success in reducing costs, as Mrs Pittermann has already said. The audit by the Court of Auditors showed that there were various social security areas in which there was a need for action. The removal of the deficits mentioned in the Court of Auditors and the inclusion of the suggestions made by the Court of Auditors were already under way during the examination process. There, too, substantial successes have been achieved in the areas of reform worthy. It is not true that, as was claimed, there is no overall agreement. An overall contract has been negotiated. In 1997, the Advisory Board on Rescue and Aids was also set up. It also took account of the recommendation to make greater use of tenders and direct purchases. Of course, there is still a need for reform in some areas. One area is the principal medical approvals. It is not that they should be abolished, but, as already stated, that concrete resolution should be facilitated. The need for reform in the cost of relief and aid, due to the huge price differences, has already been mentioned. Social security should choose a differentiated and flexible procedure with regard to the conclusion of contracts and thus avoid rigid binding. It must, in the interests of its contributors, take advantage of all price and market advantages, i.e. different purchasing policies depending on the market situation. Some methods for this: e.g. calls for tenders, for example cooperations for the purchase of certain products, whereby the special competences of individual carriers can be used for certain products. However, the overall contract – if it appears to be useful – should be made flexible in the sense of a framework contract in order to prevent the binding of the contractual partner's social security from using monopolists. This approach is also in line with the recommendations of the recent organisational analysis of social security, which proposes to use synergies, to encourage the main association to coordinate cooperation and to create service and competence centres whose results are to be used for the entire social security. In summary, it can be said that a great deal has been done within social security, both before the Court of Auditors' examination and as a result of this examination, in order to ensure an optimum level of social security, but above all for the contributors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e19031	Mrs Bundesminister spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e19052	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to thank those ladies and gentlemen who have been in the Court of Auditors, for the intensive joint debate that took place there, and to stress that I really have the impression that many detailed questions, many concrete examples which the Court of Auditors rightly pointed out, could be prepared. I would also like to thank you for your contributions to the debate on various very concrete results which have resulted in a concrete implementation of the recommendations and the conclusions of the Court of Auditors' report during the examination process, but also in the subsequent follow-up. I believe it is also important to point out, Mr President of the Court of Auditors, that a number of changes have already been made during the examination process, a number of measures have been implemented, or some of what the Court of Auditors has suggested has already been prepared, so that concrete steps are taken. [[Abg. Smolle: Whoever believes will be saved, Mrs. Minister!]] I could also say in the Committee on the Court of Auditors that the conclusions made by the Court of Auditors' recommendations, on the various points, in concrete terms, that either one point or another is already done or at the stage of completion or that the preparatory work is being carried out. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that it is clear that the Members of our social security system, as well as the ladies and gentlemen of my department, take very seriously the advice, recommendations and criticisms of you and the Court of Auditors. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to repeat what has already been said by you in the debate, but I would like to make a few points. For example, it was achieved in 1995 to reduce trading margins from 20 percent to an average of 17 percent, resulting in savings of around 500 million schilling. Mrs Dr Gabriela Moser referred to international price comparisons. Allow me to perhaps bring you a more detailed, comprehensive and informative approach to this international comparison. In this comparison, France is absolutely at the forefront with per capita output of 2 459 S. Austria is 1 224 S in tenth place compared with the 15 European countries. The average in the European Union is 1,608 p. So you see that in this comparison we cut off very cheaply and very cost-consciously. With 18 drug packs per capita, Austria is 9th in comparison with 15 European countries. So even there we are really very cheap in the upper range – in the positive sense. With the average pharmacies sale price per pack, Austria is also 9th, just above the European average. Mrs. Dr. Moser! I don't think you took into account the purchasing power parities. If these are taken into account, Austria is in the very favourable 12th place. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that these figures are generally not so common, so it was important to inform the House of this. Without repeating what has already been said by you, allow me to comment briefly on the question of the chief medical approval: I think it is important to mention that only 3 per cent of the expenditure on benefits of health insurance providers is subject to the head of medical approval. Nevertheless, the individual institutions are endeavouring to make permanent reliefs and changes in concrete settlements. The instrument of long-term authorisation has also been introduced. This instrument should continue to be forced in the sense of patients. I hope that you will agree that the principal approval as such is still very important for the future, because it gives a certain degree of control, a certain overview, but also a certain degree of control by social security, and the sense of responsibility for the management of insured funds must be ensured accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party! Allow me to hold: The ARGE Orthopedics and the main association never had a relationship with each other. That was clarified at the time. There has also been no business relationship in the future and will certainly not exist in the future. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to give you an example. Mrs Povysil spoke of an old lady. I also know an old lady, she is 88 years old and has almost lost her eyesight on both eyes. After a long delay, she decided to ask at the Hanover Hospital in Vienna if anything else can be done with her 88 years and with this weakened vision. The doctors said they'd try it on one eye. – The procedure was successful, and the vision was significantly improved on the one eye. Without the patient having done anything on her own, after three weeks the competent doctor of the Hanusch Hospital called her and said that the chance for the second eye was not very good, but he still wanted to try it. – The operation of the second eye also brought a certain success, namely an improved vision. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I am proud that our system, our health care of a minimum pensioner of 88 years, offers this benefit.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e19094	No one has made any mention of this, so the debate is closed. We come to the vote on the request from the Committee of the Regions to take note of this report III-136 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of the adoption of this report to be a sign. – This is decided by a majority. That's where we got the 10th. Agenda item. 11th@item: inlistbox Point Government template: Amendments to the list in Annex I to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (1399 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e19137	We're on the 11th. Agenda item. A preliminary consultation in the committee responsible was suspended in accordance with § 28a GOG. That is why we are immediately coming to the debate on this proposal. The first speaker is Mr Karlheinz Kopf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e19165	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) There is nothing to say about the government's own formal character. The climate conference in Buenos Aires is already under way, and I can see how much the situation is similar. In 1997 before Kyoto, the Americans were massively blocked, and it was to be feared that this conference would bring no or unsatisfying outcome. It has already been commented on in advance. But it has succeeded in achieving a very respectable result. I remember, as one of those who – as well as colleagues from other political groups – were personally present there, a very professional activity of our Environment Minister Martin Bartenstein in the negotiations. I would also like to remember with great pleasure an extremely courageous and very good speech by our Minister for the Environment, in which he called for the responsibility of the Americans in particular. Finally, the whole has led to a result that, in your public statements, even you, Mrs Langthaler, have been respected and praised. I think this has been a merit of our Environment Minister Martin Bartenstein. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Following this, Martin Bartenstein, together with Professor Schleicher and other experts, has put in place a concrete implementation package and has also set a rather high reduction target for Austria. I regret, in this context, that we are currently in a situation when implementing this package, because the Minister of Finance is blocking us from those 100 million schillings that the local credit would urgently need to be able to approve and adopt at the next Commission meeting this year those important projects that would bring us a step further in the efforts to protect climate. From this point of view, I would urge the Minister of Finance to drop this blockade of 100 million schilling in the sense of climate protection, in the sense of the implementation of the Kyoto package. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A little more to the Buenos Aires conference Aires: I and the three speakers who follow me will again have the pleasure of being personally present there and, together with Minister for the Environment Bartenstein, of pursuing not only the negotiations but also of influencing them. I remember discussions in Kyoto with American Congress representatives, as they first expressed a massively dissenting attitude and then finally accepted a respectable result. I think we have a similar situation now, although expectations cannot be too high. The Americans, of course, try to block, prevent again, just like at the last conference. I am very confident, however, that, especially our Minister for the Environment, who is going there in a coordinated EU position as EU negotiator, we will be able to see the Americans, the Japanese, again to prevent those loopholes they would like to see in their implementation. So I'm confident. Above all, it is important to keep the discussion process in progress to improve the climate situation. I am confident that our Minister Bartenstein will once again make a very decisive contribution to this. We will be able to track this in a few days. I think we should give him any support we can only give him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e19223	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e19244	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Member's head has already mentioned it: The proposal itself is not worth a contribution to debate. However, the context gives us the opportunity to remind us once again that the House ratified the framework agreement in 1994 and therefore took over clear obligations for the Republic of Austria. We have in the course of this framework agreement to create and develop national and regional programmes and to implement them. Parts of this have already been processed, the National Environmental Plan has found international attention and is a good instrument. We have also been familiar with the Toronto target several times here in the Hohe Haus. We have announced that we want to drastically reduce greenhouse gases by 2005. That's only six years, and I think I'm the only one who's still flattering the Toronto target and still thinks it's feasible. It's actually feasible, even today! This framework agreement is also a basis for those conferences which Mr Head has already made: It was the basis for the Kyoto Conference, it is the basis for the Buenos Aires Conference. Kyoto has brought this minus 13 percent of 1990. This is mandatory by international law and therefore also implemented. It is clear that only with a common national effort can this high objective be achieved. We need the covenant, we need the congregations. More than 140 municipalities have become familiar with the Climate Alliance, and they are well-known to save 50 percent of greenhouse gases in their municipality. For the countries, the success balance is not so large. Financial resources have been made available to countries. Some countries have used these financial resources to achieve effects, others have not. The Federal Minister continues to rely on 15a contracts. I do not think that these 15a agreements will be concluded in a short time, and I think, as the colleague has pointed out, that this overall approach, if there is, should be presented. Minister of Finance Edlinger and has been calling for this overall concept for a long time. There is a correspondence, according to my records at 22. ==References====External links== In September of the previous year, reference is made. For more than a year, it has been clear that professional project management must take place and that the Minister of Finance is only willing to provide additional resources if a clear, comprehensible and also figures-expressible overall concept is on the table. In my view, from the point of view of the Minister for Finance, this is understandable; from the point of view of the Ministry of the Environment, I would ask you to present this project when it is ready. Finally, two brief comments on the last discussions. We hear again and again: Since we are only involved in CO2 emissions by 0.4 percent, the contribution of Austria is not essential. I do not think we should go on the basis of this discussion. The contribution is essential. The contribution of each country is essential. Only when all countries in the world make their contribution can the climate be stabilised. It also surprises me that in America there are supposed to be 15 000 experts who are still doubting whether climate change is taking place at all. I find this doubt to be strong on the occasion of the current events of the Hurricane in Nicaragua and Honduras. Ladies and gentlemen! The Kyoto Protocol is signed today by 59 states. The United States of America is not yet present. A state has already ratified the Kyoto Protocol – understandably the Fiji Islands, which have massively noted in Kyoto that they are concerned that their country is going down. I hope that the rules will be agreed in Buenos Aires. I hope that after the Buenos Aires Conference has been concluded, the number of ratifications will increase. Nomen be Omen: I hope Buenos Aires will make progress towards a good air in this world. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e19307	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Schweitzer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e19328	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I agree to quote Article 3 of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, which reads as follows: "The Parties shall, on the basis of justice and in accordance with their shared but different responsibilities and their respective capabilities, protect the climate system for the good of today's and future generations." And the crucial statement: "Consequently, the Parties who are developed countries are to take the lead in combating climate change and its adverse effects." Ladies and gentlemen! In my view, this is the crucial statement: The developed countries are to take the lead! In the negotiations which have now taken place in the run-up to Buenos Aires, there is already a discussion about the so-called flexible mechanisms, which means nothing but a discussion about future eco-imperialism. The purpose of flexible mechanisms is to prevent the achievement of objectives in one's own country. So you can buy your reduction in other countries. Our Federal Minister is also not averse to accepting such flexible mechanisms to a certain extent. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that this clearly contradicts Article 3 of this Framework Convention when it stands – and I repeat it: "As a result, the Parties, who are developed countries, are to take the lead in combating climate change and its adverse effects" – and not, in the form of eco-imperialism, to lose their full responsibility and to buy the reduction potential from developing countries and to continue in their own country as before. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: You got that wrong!]] No, no, I didn't misunderstand that. Of course, it is still about emission trading in a particular form. You buy the reduction potential. There's still that. In Russia you can't buy it. Russia has a huge potential to buy. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: Russia is not really a developing country!]] This is what I am referring to, and I do not think it should be done in this form. I think we should be of one opinion. Minister Bartenstein does not address the matter with this position and says: There must be no such trade. – He says that it is necessary to see that this trade takes place only in a limited form. I believe that this is contrary to Article 3 and is therefore to be rejected. [[Abg. Head: You talked about the developing countries earlier!]] What Austria has to demand in the negotiations is not an action plan announced by Bartenstein on the rules of these flexible mechanisms, but the elimination of loopholes. That's why it should be, Karlheinz! Through the EU Presidency, he really has the position to achieve something. He even now represents 28 countries. If, with the weight of these 28 countries, he refers to Article 3, he should also be able to achieve a success in the negotiation. I wonder whether he really has a 100% interest in it or whether, from Austria too, he himself is interested in this limited trade with countries in which the industry has collapsed and a certain potential has been created. I believe that this is contrary to Article 3 and that the position with which our Federal Minister represents 28 countries is not the best.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e19390	Mrs Langthaler is now on the floor. Then we'll probably get to the vote. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e19412	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, it would be nice if we were to ratify the Kyoto Protocol in the high House in the week when the Buenos Aires climate conference took place, and not just a government template, which really does not really have anything to do with the climate debate. But it is at least an opportunity to discuss an important issue this week. Member's head! One must already be aware of the influence of Austria at such large international conferences. Of course, it is important to do a lot in one's own country. In particular, Austria would be predestined to change its energy structure in such a way as to increase the use of renewable energy sources. I would like to remind you once again: Officially, we still have the Toronto target in mind, that is, minus 20 percent by the year 2005 based on 1988. – We are miles away from that. But if one says that Minister of the Environment Bartenstein in Kyoto has actually done something that would suddenly have changed the position of the Americans, then this is a bit too presumptuous. There you should leave the church in the village! The EU position, on the other hand, is really essential. However, from my point of view, the EU has been equally poorly prepared for the conference in Buenos Aires – unfortunately, I say – as last year for Kyoto. Because what happened in Kyoto last year? – The Americans, who are much easier to deal with the decision-making structures, because they only have a delegation with a very clear position, are preoccupied with proposals, while the 15 EU countries always need infinitely long, until they can finally agree on a common denominator. And instead of the EU starting to prepare for Buenos Aires immediately after Kyoto and finally finding a genuinely concrete position, it has not been done for months. [[Abg. Head: Our task is that only since 1. July!]] Yeah, but we've been in the troika since January. What did the Americans do? – The Americans commissioned studies in January and did preparatory work. The Americans go to such conferences with a strict position, which I do not share, because I consider the American position to be anything but ecological, but at least they have a position. The European Union, on the other hand, has no position again and will once again be able to get over the table in Buenos Aires for my great regret. These may be a bit dry and unfortunately not interesting points for many here in this hall. But you all will still feel it, because in a few years, when this protocol becomes reality, the energy costs will change enormously! [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] Mr Schweitzer has today confused a little the developing countries with the countries of Eastern Europe, which, according to the Protocol, are just in the transition to the market economy. In contrast to the developing countries, which were not obliged to do anything in the Protocol and in the framework convention, the Eastern European countries are partners in this process. Russia, for example, can really sell its so-called hot air, and there would be incredible amounts of money that would then be available. I just call you a few numbers: More than $4 billion can be made available for Russia and more than 4 billion for Ukraine, Poland, Romania and Bulgaria, which have a high share of so-called hot air that they can theoretically sell to countries like the United States. Mr Schweitzer! It is already too late for the discussion whether or not it is good that such "emission trading" will come in great style. This discussion has long been over. It is stated in the Protocol that there will be this trade with emission certificates. And it would now be the challenge for the European Union to set out very clear positions and define the rules for the game under which this emissions trading can be allowed. Our position is clear. We say: 70 percent of the reduction measures must be taken in their own country and 30 percent should be released for the so-called flexible measures, including for emissions trading. I personally believe that, if the rules of the game are properly formulated, we can actually achieve reasonable reductions in emissions trading while at the same time making a positive contribution to technology transfer to Eastern Europe, but also to developing countries. I am clearly in favour of this emissions trading in certain rules of the game. However, the framework conditions need to be laid down, and I am missing a single position from the European Union. We know that the British and the Dutch have a far more liberal interpretation in this regard than countries such as Germany and France. Very briefly to the Austrian situation: You can talk and negotiate a lot at international conferences and bring home a nice protocol. But essentially, what is actually being implemented. Austria has decided on relatively rigid measures, but has not yet implemented anything at all. In my view, two measures would be necessary in particular: Firstly, a reform of competence in Austria, i.e. a real strengthening of the environment in the field of energy competence, so that the Minister of the Environment can not only speak beautifully at these international conferences, but actually implement something at home, and secondly, an eco-tax reform that deserves this name. For it would be really fatal if Austrians were not to follow German development very quickly and beyond the development in Europe, and did not make an ecologicalization very quickly, which would provide economic incentives for the actual use of less fossil energy sources and more renewable energy to be made available. I still have speaking time! I note that the issue is very exciting for many Members. That's what I see on the faces. Parliamentary Khol is already asleep. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Actual correction: I don't sleep!]] In the few minutes of speaking time I still have, I want to... [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You're just saying that you're asleep!]] No, no, no, I think that this issue is not as exciting for you at this hour as it should actually be. Unfortunately, international conferences often have the disadvantage that their content will not be known to Members in the national parliaments until they are immediately under negotiation. The exciting thing is that what you will all be dealing with in two, three years' time will now be formulated in Buenos Aires in the next few days. And I am glad that the Minister for the Environment has introduced a very positive point here in Parliament, namely that he actually takes with him Members of every group in the delegation to Buenos Aires, so that at least a few Members will be there and then, hopefully, with great enthusiasm, be able to implement the following measures here in the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e19477	There is no more word message for this. The debate is closed. In accordance with Rule 65 of the Rules of Procedure, we shall now proceed to the vote. The subject-matter is the approval of the State contract: Amendments to the list in Annex I to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, in 1399 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this State Treaty to give an appropriate sign. – That is unanimous. The State Treaty was unanimously approved. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request for the present State Treaty within the meaning of Article 50. 2 Federal Constitutional Law must be fulfilled by passing laws. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This approval was also unanimous. Finally, we shall vote on the request for the versions of the State Treaty in Arabic, Chinese, French, Russian and Spanish as defined in Article 49. 2 The Federal Constitutional Act must be made known by the fact that they are available for public inspection in the Federal Ministry of the Environment, Youth and Family. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this procedure to give a sign of approval. – This procedure is unanimously approved. The agenda is exhausted. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm asking for attention! In the course of today's debate in connection with the Liberals' request to present item 9 of the agenda on Endensnahe Trasse, I took the view that, in the course of a speech by Dr Andreas Khol, Member of the Commission, Mr Dr. Haider made the call for call in connection with the party academy of the ÖVP: "You stole it!" . I have found this out of the Minutes and I have given the floor to Mr Dr. Haider for this formulation a call for order. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00145_d7e19541	I am still aware that in today's sitting the self-employed applications were submitted 920/A to 924/A. Questions 5090/J to 5128/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Thursday, 5th. November 1998, 9 a.m. The session will begin at a Question Time. The agenda can be found in the written communication distributed in the hall. This meeting is closed.
