ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e2008	Ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the 120. Meeting of the National Council and welcome all of you very cordially. For today's session as prevented, the Dkfm Members are reported. Holger Bauer, Dr. Hlavac, Mentil and Mag. Schreiner. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e2042	I declare that the Government template: The Federal Act amending the Workers' Chamber Act 1992 (1154 of Supplements) has come into force. Amendments to the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e2063	Mr Wabl spoke on business. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e2084	Mr President. Agenda item 1 deals with the NATO SOFA Agreement. The first reservation of Austria concerning the NATO-SOFA Agreement relates to Article VII concerning jurisdiction on troops posted here. In addition, the last paragraph is the reservation against the death penalty which is supposed to be anchored in exactly the same Article VII. However, we have had to recognise, in the course of our study of this work, that we are referring to an article which is not present in this agreement at all, but rather to a NATO troop statute, which is another work of the Treaty. I would therefore ask for this item to be replaced and for a debate to be held on this point.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e2115	Ladies and gentlemen! They have heard the proposal: There is the application, according to § 49 para. 5 item 1 – to vote on it – and to hold a debate on this request. [[Abg. Arbitrators: No debate!]] For business treatment: Mr Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e2147	Mr President. We have already pointed out in the committee, as the Federal Minister will certainly confirm, the multiple shortcomings of this agreement, through profound argumentation by our colleague, Jung. I am pleased that the Greens also share this view today. We are also in favour of decommissioning this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e2172	All right, then now we have two votes. First of all, we are voting on whether the request of Mr Wabl is being followed to hold a debate on the decommissioning of item 1 of the agenda. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of a debate to give a sign of this. – This is the minority. This rejects the request for debate. We shall therefore immediately vote on the proposal itself. This application is only in favour of a two-thirds majority vote, as in § 49 para. It's 5 years old. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who advocate that item 1 be withdrawn from today's agenda for a sign on this point. – This is not the required two-thirds majority. Please, Mr. Dr. Khol.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e2231	Mr President. To the excuses you have made: Firstly, the honourable Member of the FPÖ Rosenstingl is not apologised. I would like to point this out. Secondly, at the plenary session yesterday, Mr Mentil and Mr Schreiner were informed that they did not hold their mandate. But they reported it as "prevented". I ask for clarification: Did they relinquish their mandate, yes or no?
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e2258	Deputies! As far as the first point is concerned, the President, who is at the end of the sitting, will determine whether Parliamentary Rosenstingl actually did not take part in today's sitting. At the moment, I can only read the names of those who have been reported as prevented; there is no such thing as Mrs Rosenstingl. However, it would be possible for him to "cruise up" in two hours, and therefore the findings that he was not present will be taken at the end of the meeting, just as yesterday, and at all future meetings. [[Vivid Rejoicing]] I also announce this for future meetings. Secondly, Mr Mentil and Mr Schreiner announced yesterday that they would abandon their mandate. It will be effective if the Federal Electoral Authority's communication on this matter reaches the Parliamentary Directorate. This is not the case so far, so they are legally members of the National Council by the hour, and it is an excuse and to inform everyone. They also have all the rights and duties other than Members of Parliament, as long as this communication on the receipt of a declaration of relinquishing by the Federal Electoral Authority has not been received here at home. Once again to business treatment. Mr Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e2295	Mr President. On behalf of my group, I should like to say that the declarations of censure of the two Members of my club, Mentil and Schreiner, have already been signed and have been sent to the Federal Electoral Authority. I do not, of course, know when the Federal Electoral Authority will report this to the Bureau of the National Council. That is why we have made the excuses with you on a precautionary basis until this date.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e2319	I think the legal process is clear. As soon as this communication arrives in the House, the appropriate incentives will also be made. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e2342	I should like to say once again that the agenda for today's sitting remains unchanged. On the other hand, it is proposed that the debate on points 2 to 4, 5 to 7, 8 and 9, 10 and 11, 12 and 13, 15 and 16 and 17 and 18 should be summarized at today's meeting. Is there any objection? This is not the case. That's how it's approved. We are now going into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e2373	In the Presidential Conference, consensus was reached on the design and duration of the debates as follows: For Agenda items 1 to 13, a block speaking time of 4 "Vienna hours" has been agreed. This gives rise to the following speaking times: SPÖ 60 minutes, ÖVP 56, Free 52, Liberal Forum and Greens per 36 minutes. A further 5 "Vienna hours" were agreed for the rest of the agenda, resulting in the following speaking times: SPÖ 75 minutes, ÖVP 70, Free 65, Liberal Forum and Greens per 45 minutes. Is there any objections to this proposal? - That's not the case. The National Council has thus agreed to this proposal. 1. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government template (943 and 943 of the Supplements): Agreement between the Contracting States of the North Atlantic Treaty and the other States participating in the Partnership for Peace on the Status of their troops and Declarations of Austria (1170 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e2410	We'll get to the 1st. Agenda item. There is no need for reporting. That is why we are immediately entering the negotiations. The first speaker is Mr Jung. His speaking time is 10 minutes voluntarily. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e2437	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In today's agenda, there is a very hidden and small issue, which is an essential decision for this House, although above all the Socialist Party would like to hide it from its Members. This has also proved to be the case in the Committee when everyone was sent away, especially Mrs Karlsson and others who might be at risk of turning away from the party line. This point is particularly important for Austria. It is officially an agreement that should regulate how foreign troops, which come into operation in Austria in the course of the "Partnership for Peace", operate in terms of their legal status. We liberals are for NATO accession, we have often known that enough. We have repeatedly called on the EIA to draw up resolutions together with us. The last was in the Federal Council, where the ÖVP left its own minister in the rain at that time. As far as the credibility of the ÖVP in this area – because you always accuse us of being here on withdrawal. We are not on the withdrawal, ladies and gentlemen of the EIA, but we want a rule of law. We should not be allowed to think here that it is an agreement that regulates exercises when this agreement is actually a stagnation agreement. We want to join NATO, but we do not want it through the back door and not past the public discussion, as you did at the time at the time in the EU question and as you want to make it a Amsterdam Treaty again with the empowerment law – the name alone is already significant. [[Complaints with the liberals]] Here, under the cover of legal regulations for exercises, a troop stationing law is introduced – another step into NATO, which we would in principle welcome as such, but, as has already been said, not on this path. Why did you choose this way? – Because In particular, they could not convince the SPÖ partners in Parliament otherwise because they want to get past it and do not want to tell the SPÖ members what that really means. We've been wondering: Twice the SPÖ has delayed this matter for almost half a year by sending the government back the government's plans, and suddenly a change of opinion. I couldn't explain them to myself, but yesterday it became clear to me: Mr Rudas has now managed to get the SPÖ Parliamentary Club under control, because Mr Kostelka is so busy with his 33 million that his persistent resistance has now been broken. Preaching water, drinking wine. The left wing is told different things, the practice then looks different. And then Mr Cap dared to talk yesterday about a lack of principle. That's exactly what's happening in the SPÖ club right now. One's own left is calming – that's the blackish unprincipled – because one agrees on the other side. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In fact, this is a NATO troop statute, that is, the statute which, for example, was "appointed" by the U.S. occupation power in 1951 of the Federal Republic of Germany and regulated the legal status of the American and NATO troops in Germany. This was really done with some sort of occupation status at the time. There were and are those who sign here, not only on military matters, as it would be appropriate for exercises, but also on civilian personnel. However, there are tax privileges in addition to those who are also subject to this right. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen: What does this have to do with tax privileges for army members when troops temporarily come to Austria to exercise? The answer from the socialist side would really interest me. But it also has – and this is much more important and deals with the question of neutrality – validity in the case of war. Article XV(1) expressly states that this agreement remains in force in the case of war, ladies and gentlemen. And now, explain to me what an agreement for the war case has to do with a stop in peace for exercises within the framework of the "Partnership for Peace"! This is clearly the question of Austrian neutrality, and you, ladies and gentlemen, should answer it once from the left wing of this House and do not stop around it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It also weakens Austrian legal status; and there it becomes interesting. I only take the cable car accident in Italy with this slightly crazy – unfortunately you have to say – American pilots. The legal status is as follows: The pilots were flown out, it's being brought before an American court. And here this agreement – and please tell the Austrians nothing else – expressly states that, if a court – in this case American – decides, an Austrian court has no longer the possibility to negotiate this case. It is not only interesting as regards the consequences of criminal law, but also the consequences of civil law, damages and so on. So here Austria refuses to exercise the rights of its citizens in such a case. That cannot be true, that cannot be the goal of such an agreement! Or: Remember the Simpson case with the absurd decisions that American courts sometimes take. This may also apply in a murder case. There are the signatory powers not only against the military, but also against the civilian army and against the private families in Austria. The use of foreign military police is also possible outside garrisons and exercise rooms. I wonder, What is this necessary for an exercise agreement? Do you really want to have American, English or other military police operate anywhere in Austria during an exercise? You have the right to do so, and no one can dispute it. Moreover, and this is crucial, Austrian law is bended in important areas, if not broken. We have no death penalty in Austria, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: Thank God!]] "Thank God!" You say. This right, however, is broken, for it is granted to the American forces in the case of signature, to carry out the death penalty for a crime committed in Austria for relatives, soldiers and civilians. You only have to transport the man out if they've taken him. Mrs Ferrero-Waldner, Secretary of State, still denied this during the first negotiations. In the meantime, there was an urgent question – and here you see how honest it is with this House, ladies and gentlemen – the Foreign Minister has to admit that this is the case. Then we have in the supplements and in the explanatory notes: In order to prevent the execution of the death penalty, Austria has signed an additional protocol to waive the execution of the death penalty in the case of members of a force or of a civil consequence. – That is not true, and not at all, because if they were taken by American police forces, the death penalty can be enforced. This is fact, ladies and gentlemen, and no one can deny it here. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Again, one of the many false information we have received. The same applies to neutrality: here, too, a horse-thrower trick after another. One has written a letter stating that it is assumed that the foreign powers will respect the Austrian Constitution. We asked the Secretary of State how it looked about who was talking to. She said: Yeah, we talked to the Americans about it. But she did not want to mention a name, let alone that one of these states is willing to accept it only by means of a letter of recognition. We inform them and assume that it works. The Minister wanted to calm us down. Mr Minister, I can tell you how it looks in reality. During the cold war, American and other NATO ships – quite rightly from the security considerations at that time – had nuclear weapons on board. The social democratic governments in Denmark and Norway did not want nuclear weapons in the country in peace. Therefore, just as the Social Democrats in Austria are now, they have committed a package. They have said that they assume that there is nothing like that on the ships. Everyone knew the nuclear weapons are on the ships, but the face was preserved. You're just about to dizzy your voters to keep your face, ladies and gentlemen. Think about what you're doing, because we won't make it so easy for you to continue acting with pocket players' methods. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It's not about a send-off agreement for exercises. This would have been done without a doubt with a standard contract. We have nothing against an agreement that goes on when Austria is a NATO member. But not in this Mogel package, and not under these conditions, where the death penalty is introduced, without saying to the Austrian, in which the Austrian Constitution is bended, if not even broken, as far as neutrality is concerned, just because you are too fed up with the discussion with the Austrian citizen and telling him that NATO is unfortunately a necessity at the moment because it is the only working security alliance and it is in the interest of Austria to join this NATO. But not on these detours, ladies and gentlemen, and not on such methods, just because the Social Democrats are too weak! You have sent it back to the government twice, and now you are going to your knees, because Mr Kostelka, because of his 33 million, no longer has that stability as it was last autumn. That is the reality, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! We will not agree, I can tell you that!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e2509	The next speaker is Dr. Spindelegger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e2530	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: You'll put the boy in the shade!]] After speaking to my previous speaker, Mr Jung, I should like to say once again: [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: But the boy has grown very old!]] When it comes to NATO, the FPÖ pretends to have invented all of this. But when it comes to taking a concrete step towards taking responsibility, as in the case of this military statute agreement, the world once again looks quite different. The FPÖ is not available. That is to say, ladies and gentlemen, because this is a continuation of the endless series that the FPÖ has already delivered in this House – zigzag, once for that, once against it – and it will now find an addition to the question of the status of troops. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Mr Spindelegger, talk about the matter! That would be good for you! Why don't you talk about the matter? About the thing!]] I don't want to list this whole list at all. For me, I'm stuck: FPÖ is not available for the NATO troupe status. That means she fell by once again. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The matter is too important for us to allow us here for details with Mr Jung. [[Abg. Young: Details about neutrality? Details of the death penalty? That's details for you?]] I think our way, on the 10th. The "PfP" framework document for "Partnership for Peace" is now an important addition to and continuation of this military agreement. Whoever says A must also say B. [[Abg. Scheibner: But you only say B, that's your problem!]] We confess to the "Partnership for Peace". That is to say, we are in favour of peacekeeping in the framework of this partnership, there is disaster aid in the framework of this partnership, we are at our disposal for the rescue service and we also want to actively operate peacekeeping. This is a policy that the Austrian People's Party will be happy and determined to continue. I believe that this proposal, which is now before us, is a very essential step towards preparation, because we are always talking about everything and showing international solidarity. If it is not prepared by a joint exercise of the participating states of the "Partnership for Peace" in such a way that one can really act in the event of use, then all of this would have no meaning. This statute provides for the possibility of legal clarity in joint exercises. And if the honourable Member has repeatedly mentioned in the committee that some cases which may occur in practice would not be covered by this statute, I can only say to that effect, ladies and gentlemen, that we do not stand by the fact that a common agreement regulates all possible cases. This is not at all our fundamental concern, because in the legislation one should certainly say goodbye to one: to believe that with prophetic gift one will cover all the possible cases in practice. [[Abg. Young: Is neutrality so insignificant, Mr. Cot?]] That's not our line either – maybe yours. But I would think that in practice it has shown that this is not correct. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that although the ratification of this Convention took some time, very intensive discussions have been held in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. But that is what I think is good and right, because all the issues related to it should be clarified in terms of international law and constitutional law before we commit ourselves to this active step. But there is in no way a way past the fact that we are also committed to holding such an exercise within the framework of the "Partnership for Peace" in Austria. [[Abg. Young: You've already practiced the Austrian troops!]] With this agreement it is now possible that in autumn of this year there will also be an exercise on the "Partnership for Peace" in Austria. [[Abg. Scheibner: What about the exercises that have already taken place? According to what statutes have they been held? On what legal basis have they been held?]] I think that is important and correct, and I would like to maintain this as a consistent attitude for the Austrian People's Party. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! The political issues related to this are: Point 1: Austria is able to exercise it under clear conditions, we are therefore fulfilling a commitment we have entered into, and we are thereby also contributing to the good preparation of all these various measures under the "Partnership for Peace". Second point: We must bear in mind that the Austrian Freedom Party is not going along this path. She's not taking responsibility for it. Although she likes to talk about NATO, she's not ready to go with us at this point. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's a shame!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: You are the shame! That's what I'm saying.]] This is also a complete inconsistency, and I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that will be self-evident. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: A disgraceful opportunism!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: You are the shame!]] As far as the Greens are concerned – and this is the third political conclusion – it is already very interesting for me to note that, when reading the Convention, we did not even go beyond Article I, otherwise, Mr Wabl, you would have seen that Article I of the Convention refers to the NATO troop statute, which is also printed in the following line. I would ask you to read at least more than just Article I in the future on matters of security policy. I am not surprised that the Greens will not join this agreement and will not agree to it. However, what I would like to say is that you cannot confess to peacekeeping on questions of the "Partnership for Peace" with disaster aid, rescue services. But this is your security policy, which is an uncertainty policy in Austria, and I would like to say that again in this context. You cannot expect security policy, you do not remain a partner for security policy in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Wabl: Mr Spindelegger, your partner is the arms industry! That's safe!]] For this reason, I would like to conclude by saying to the Austrian People's Party: For us, the status of the troops is another very important part of a functioning "partnership for peace" and thus also a very important step towards an active security policy in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e2752	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Kammerlander. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e2774	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. We have a agenda item today, and we have a decision-making procedure in front of us, which is not just a troop statute and the regulation of the posting of foreign troops or Austrian troops, but which is already a part of NATO's accession, and whether what we now decide is compatible with NATO in the future. And that's the point: The same applies to all NATO members as to what we decide today with regard to the regulation of the posting of foreign troops and the regulation of the stay of Austrian troops abroad, within the framework of exercises, within the framework of the "Partnership for Peace", as if we were NATO members. That is to say, we are today adopting arrangements for the residence of domestic troops abroad or vice versa, which are generally valid. What makes this clear? – This has made itself quite clear at an event this winter, namely the cable car accident in Cavalese. To remind you of what happened there: An exercise flight of NATO, an attempt to fly through under this cable car, has led to a disaster, as you know, to a crash of the gondola and thus to the death of 21 people, including two Austrians. What happened next? – As a result, it happened – and this leaves the Italian authorities to become attentive and robust – that the Italian authorities had no opportunity at all to carry out the surveys first on the spot and then to call on the Italian courts to exercise the Italian jurisdiction. But there's a lot more that's been happening to me. It has, for example, disappeared from the aviator. Although this was an accident in which this aircraft landed quite normally on the airfield and did not fall down, so that the Italian authorities would, of course, be able to secure it, it disappeared. As we have known for two days now, a made video film has also been destroyed. Evidence has been provided, evidence has been destroyed. Not enough with it: Those two pilots who are responsible, especially those who have caused this disaster, were brought out of the country, were transferred to the United States and will have to be held responsible in the appropriate courts and, as we read, may even be acquitted. This makes me quite concerned, and I am quite upset. Because what does that mean? – 21 people have died in an accident that is obviously classified differently by military authorities and assessed differently: not as a devastating accident in which these people have died, but as a military exercise, in which one probably has to put a lot of risk and some dangers into the calculation. See what happened in Cavalese, if we decide today, it is possible at any time also in Austria and at any time also for Austrian soldiers who are abroad. And I wonder if we really want to. I wonder if You have considered that this will be possible, and whether you really want to do so, whether you find it compatible with Austrian law and with your view of jurisdiction. This goes far beyond what has so far been possible with us, and it goes far beyond what has so far been common with us. Once again, just keep this in mind: It's about subjugation and destruction of evidence. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There are no explanations to help, there are no reservations provided for in this government proposal. They don't understand that at all. On the contrary: This agreement makes it possible. We decide at a time when we do not yet have the decision of Cavalese to which we do not yet know how this process is going and what consequences it has, what consequences it has for those who have died there. We have no idea. You do not even wait for this process to continue, you do not even wait for what this judgment will say. No, we believe that we have to hurry up once again, we believe once again, that we have to be the first thing to decide on a matter where there is obviously a lot of international unrest, debate and reflection on whether this is really so right. This has not only disturbed us, it has also greatly disturbed the Italian Government. There have been serious diplomatic developments between the Italian Government and the Government of the United States, but that does not seem to interest you. Instead of coming They come out here and tell us something about peacekeeping, disaster aid and all that sounds nice and soothing and should only calm all the minds again. You do not go into matter at all, Mr Spindelegger. Do not blame us for not reading beyond Article I. You obviously didn't read the entire document! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] They stand out here and still believe that it is about the "partnership for peace" and about disaster aid. – It’s about something quite different: It is about putting the Austrian legislation out of effect, in very sensitive areas, and because - I could bet on it - we would be conducting a survey among the Members today, which of them really knows what we decide here today, most of them do not know. [[Call the ÖVP:Well go!]] [[Abg. Wabl: Mr Maitz knows exactly! He's a constant guest in NATO!]] Most would think, well, that has something to do with the partnership, with disaster aid and peacekeeping, and that's what we all want, and that's wonderful. But that this may open such processes as in Cavalese door and gate, that it will be possible for evidence to be destroyed and that Austrian courts will not be able to find out about an accident that can and could happen in Austria, you know, I don't think. But we can also address what you have mentioned, and I would like to do so very briefly, because it is also worth mentioning this. See, if this is really the case, that's a very clear thing, then I wonder: Why does the Austrian Parliament have to decide on two declarations and two reservations today? Why, then, is there an annex to the Committee's report which once again explains the reservations because, obviously, the reservations are not even understandable enough? That is also something to think about. If you look at the reservations, then you will see that it is only a reservation that is really valid under international law, and that is the reservation concerning the death penalty. The second statement is simply a statement from Parliament that what we are deciding today is not actually binding on our laws. This is not even worth the paper on which it stands! That has no effect at all! We are entering an international treaty which, of course, affects our constitution, which naturally affects our laws, which naturally affects the issues of the War Materials Act, which naturally affects the questions of defence and security, and you give yourself with a statement in which we find – for us, for us alone – that we decide today that this is not binding on our laws and that the whole thing does not affect us. In order for us to understand this very well, so to speak, to understand the last, there is a two-page committee statement on how to think of it. You know, this is based only on the fact that you have the courage to define this framework document of the "Partnership for Peace" as a political declaration of intent – as a non-binding, totally non-binding political statement of intent, the Secretary of State once said verbatim – from which strangely a whole series of rights and obligations for Austria grow, including what we decide today. How do you explain that there are so many rights and obligations arising from a political statement of intent? You cannot explain this because this is a state treaty, a political state treaty, which sets out political policies which imposes these obligations on the country and which also gives these rights and which should have been decided in this House. Since the whole of what you have listed here, but from the very beginning, is a single Murks, it remains the same, not only does it remain so, but, last but least, leads to the Austrian ambassador to the United States to decide on a statement that says the exact opposite of what we decide today. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] We decide today that this does not tangle our laws – this House decides that – and that neutrality is not being tangled with them. [[Abg. Wabl: We don't, this house decides!]] If you read in the publication of Ambassador Turk, you will read exactly the reverse: They will read precisely that this is actually compatible with neutrality and in the event of a crisis NATO membership in the "Partnership for Peace" even counts more than neutrality. It is and remains not only a questionable decision that you make today, but what you want to bring on stage today is and remains a political hasard. Finally, I can only remind you once again: 21 Dead in the cable car accident in Cavalese, and no case law in the country in which this happens, further destruction of the evidence and omission of the evidence: You decide today!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e2855	The next speaker is Mr Arbitrator. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e2876	Mr President. Federal Minister! My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address some criticisms very openly. It is true that this presentation was discussed in the Committee on Foreign Affairs last autumn. It is true that in the process of translation and transmission on the way to Parliament, a number of points have been made. However, it is also true that all the competent authorities have tried to bring this about immediately and to assist us with all information and possible assistance. It is of course true that this SOFA agreement also became a little victim of a proxy war. Since there was no referral of Parliament to the "Partnership for Peace" – as has already been said by other speakers – the debate on the "Partnership for Peace" took place in the agreement on the status of the participating troops. ==References====External links== On 28 November, the Secretary of State, In the main committee, by the Minister of Defence and, subsequently, in the Committee, by Mr Vice-Chancellor and Foreign Minister, he said that, from a constitutional point of view, a referral of the National Council under Article 50 B-VG is not necessary in view of the nature of cooperation within the framework of the "PfP" for the related documents. Other, including renowned professors, took the following view: If one takes together the framework document and the introduction document, there is no doubt that this will trigger legal liabilities which have a political but no less legislative nature, because this will extend the scope of the Austrian federal army within the meaning of the Wehrgesetz and also within the meaning of the federal constitution. If I assume that the Federal Government is right and that there was no need to consult the National Council, I, and I would like to say quite openly, have asked myself, in the course of the deliberations, whether Parliament would have failed to consult the "PfP" documents. For this would certainly not have been a delay; one must only look at how long the replacement debates that took place at the SOFA have taken. On the second question: Mrs Kammerlander referred to the tragic accident of Cavalese and thus the question of the death penalty. First of all, I would like to say that the questions relating to the death penalty have been very carefully examined. I am also very grateful to Mr Rotter, a professor of the University of Linz, who, as a Member of Parliament, has drawn up opinions which I could subsequently review and which have contributed to making the whole somewhat waterproof. The question put by Mrs Kammerlander concerned, in particular, the current case in Italy. This extremely tragic event is certainly a case where the determination of the facts of the facts is of importance in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement. In the event that the flight movements of the aircraft concerned have been carried out within the framework of the service instructions, jurisdiction would be conferred on the authorities of the issuing State, whereas in the event of a breach of the service instructions, the host State would be more likely to have jurisdiction. It is clear that it is not the case, as Mrs Kammerlander said, that it would allow the agreement, as she said, to be rejected. On the contrary: The Agreement is set out in Article VII(1). 6 provide that, in accordance with this provision, the authorities of the host and consignee State must assist each other in carrying out all necessary investigations in criminal matters and in the procurement of evidence. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Peter! As we have seen in practice, we have seen!]] That, of course, a great power like America is less willing to comply with these provisions, we note not only in this context. This is not a specific SOFA behavior, but a behaviour such as a great power, a large state, a superpower in various areas vis-à-vis other countries. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: This is a cowboy state, far from any rule of law!]] The fact that this problem exists is not so much a question of the agreement, but the problem of the death penalty, because unfortunately some States still know the death penalty and because America, which in the world is a guardian of human rights, is still allowing the death penalty in many countries on its own territory and is also cruelly executing it. This too must be our protest. [[General condolences.]] The second question, which moved the Committee in particular, was whether national provisions were also affected. In particular, the question was raised as to whether the declaration would ensure that Austria can fulfil its neutrality obligations under the 1907 Hague Agreement in the so-called Alliance case. I am very glad that the Committee, with the agreement of the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs and Security, has received the consent of Mr Dr. Trauttmansdorff was made clear for the International Law Office and the Federal Chancellery. I am also very grateful to the head of the International Law Bureau, Ambassador Cede, for making this clear: "The wording chosen in Z 3 of the "Austria Declaration on the interpretation of the Convention between the Contracting States of the North Atlantic Treaty and the other States participating in the "Partnership for Peace" on the status of their troops (PfP-SOFA), according to which "the applicable Austrian Constitutional Law in the fields of security and defence is not affected by the application of the Convention" also refers to the Staff Regulations which refer to hostilities to which the North Atlantic Treaty applies." That means that this question has been clearly clarified. It was also made clear that this understanding was discussed in consultations with the other PfP contracting parties. The last question therefore remains, again in connection with the tragic event in Italy, which was also raised by Mrs Kammerlander: Is it not terrible that a soldier of a sent State who commits a crime may then return to his country? I am actually glad that there is this possibility, Madam President. Because imagine the Italian case elsewhere: An Austrian – hopefully that never happens, but we think of such a possibility – commits a similar offence in a cable car in a country where there is the death penalty. He is not allowed to return to the court proceedings in Austria, but he will definitely be condemned in that country as you wish. Then the death penalty threatens him there, and that's exactly what we wanted to prevent. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: This is a mistake!]] No, that's not a mistake. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Will you give me your ear for a second? In case of a negligence crime like in Cavalese, this is not the case! As with this extradition agreement, it is a matter of reservation!]] No, it is not the case that a foreigner comes back to his country in which there is the death penalty, but exactly the opposite. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Both problems exist!]] We must think of the possibility that an Austrian will commit a crime as a participant in an exercise in another country where there is the death penalty. We are then interested that it is subject to Austrian jurisdiction and not that of the host country in which there is the death penalty. I believe that the open questions have now been resolved. It is not about NATO accession, it is not even about joining the "PfP", it is about whether the mutual legal relations are regulated in the exercises through a troop statute. I think it is good that they are now being dealt with.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e2975	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. The clock is set to 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e2996	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On several occasions in the Committee's deliberations, because this law has not gone through the stage, it has been noted that many members of the Committee and also representatives of several parties did not break out in great enthusiasm in the debate on the decision-making of this statute for troops. Mr Spindelegger! Slowly, but surely I understand why you have such problems in your own country group in the ÖVP. If you know you briefly and in a moment, you think you are a sympathetic person to talk to. But if you're at the speaker's desk and you hear what nonsense you're spreading and with what cynicism You have these debates, then you understand that people you know better have a problem with you, Mr Spindelegger. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: So, please, Mr Scheibner, this assumption!]] [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: Typical F!]] At first sight, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP: What you're doing here in the security debate really mocks every description. That is where Mr Khol makes himself and speaks in an intervening call of disgrace, I think. Mr Khol, what do you think is disgraceful? – I believe that it is disgraceful to think about it once to speak, to stand up for NATO accession and to place neutrality in the treasury – if I quote you right now – on another occasion, because it fits differently, and because one is afraid of an EU election, one suddenly uses a great deal of support for neutrality and says that Austria will always remain a neutral state. Mr Khol! That is disgraceful and not a clear line in security policy! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You, Mr Spindelegger, had had the opportunity to make clear decisions on Austrian security policy together with Members of the House on several occasions, not about any troop status, but about a reorientation in security policy towards an Austrian alliance membership. Mr Spindelegger, this is not a zigzag course of the FPÖ, but it is your ugly zigzag course, which also leads to a great uncertainty in the Austrian population. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You have not even been able to agree to and have been able to accept a request for a deadline, which our group has made the last time. We have taken the view that this issue should be dealt with as soon as possible. Just stay with your own group, make sure that a clear course is finally taken. 'Cause I already know: Next year there will again be national elections, as some in this country will try to make the issue of security policy a matter of election, and then You again, as in recent times, fall down, once again, and all your principles that you have given the best here will be nothing more worth it. I'm telling you, my Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, in the future, you will refrain from all your attempts at worship in the four-eye discussion! It is a pity to see how difficult it is with this coalition partner, and to think that one hopes that sometime we may be able to work together. Ladies and gentlemen! I really hope that everyone in my group, too, will know very slowly that there is really nothing to do with you in this state. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] On the subject: Mr Foreign Minister and ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Steindl.]] Mr Steindl, you too are one of those! Remember your speech yesterday! Ladies and gentlemen! It's clear, and we're for that... – Now I've met you, I know. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Think about it, change your policy! [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: I think you should think!]] Finally, make an honest policy, a straightforward policy, and do not always fall down when it requires day-to-day policy! [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: Please, what's straight?]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: The freedom of the slalom is precisely linear!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Our position is clear: We say that the reorientation of Austrian security policy is necessary. We are in favour of a membership of the alliance, as soon as possible, because only then will Austria be integrated into the international community's protective shield, only then will we have the opportunity to co-determination, and only then can we decide whether to set up a European security organisation. We also advocated the integration of Austria into the "Partnership for Peace" programme, although unfortunately this has not been discussed in Parliament. It is also clear that there must be clear guidelines for the legal status of the troops, both of the foreign troops in domestic exercises and of the Austrian troops in exercises abroad. However, I do not understand the SPÖ if it says that this is necessary, but on other issues it is always so embarrassing and only does not want to interrupt or decide what might point towards NATO membership. This is so far that we still do not know how next week at the NATO Parliamentary Assembly and the associated members will be our status. On the question of the legal status of the troops in exercises, however, one takes over a status of troops from 1951. 1951, this is really an age of NATO old, the NATO old, old, when parts of Europe were still occupied by foreign troops. This NATO troop statute is now incorporated into the Austrian legal system. I do not understand at all this, although it would have been easy to reach at least a strongly modified independent agreement with NATO on this point, as did other countries. Mr Jung has already addressed these problems in some areas. It is simply not true, as Spindelegger said, that any details of us will be greatly incriminated. I believe that the question of the death penalty will be affected - and this has been confirmed in the Committee - if, for example, American troops arrest an American soldier on Austrian territory. I don't think that's a detail. Another point: Why are civilians addressed by troops in this Staff Regulations? Why do we have to take it over? This is really about permanent military stations, which will probably not be carried in the framework of the "PfP". Ladies and gentlemen! That is also a question of information. We are constantly being misinformed by the government representatives. The Minister of Defence says that in this "PfP" exercise last year there was no problem with legal status in the US, since an independent agreement had been reached. Now we hear that there has been no such agreement, but that – and this must be imagined – ladies and gentlemen, for the first time in the history of Austrian soldiers under the sovereignty and under the legal order of the United States, there has been an exercise. [[Abg. Arbitrator: The Minister of Defense has said that it was an agreement of its own!]] [[Abg. Boy: He said that!]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: In committee he said that!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! How does it look from your point of view with a neutrality status if you take it seriously? You cannot seriously believe that, on the one hand, you still hold on to this obsolete status, and on the other hand, you decide on the other hand, on the other hand, on a measure which cannot be reconciled with that status. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen: We are in favour of clear discussions and clear decisions on security policy. A yes to alliance membership! If we discuss this here in Parliament, we discuss it with the population and then we conclude the relevant legal framework. But we are against the fact that the population is constantly made up of an X for a U and that it is said to her that everything remained the same as it was. Neutrality is put in the foreground as a sacred cow on the one hand, and on the other hand, behind the back of the population a measure is taken after the other, partly not even necessary, which cannot be reconciled with all these principles.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e3166	The next speaker is Mr Hans Helmut Moser. Speech time: 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e3190	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Late, but yet we are discussing the NATO troop statute in this House. The decision-making process that comes about today has long been due because we have been active in the framework of the NATO "Partnership for Peace" since 1995. Ladies and gentlemen! At this point it must be expressed clearly and clearly: It was irresponsible for us to have participated in the "Partnership for Peace" in the past, in recent years, without the necessary legal basis being created for this, without the corresponding legal protection of our soldiers participating in the exercises abroad. Your Minister of Defense is responsible for this, Mr Federal Minister. Ladies and gentlemen! Whoever admits to the NATO "Partnership for Peace" must also say a yes to this state of troops. We shall therefore give our approval to this state of the troops. I am sorry that we in this House can only discuss it so late that, in the course of the deliberations and the transmission of the necessary documents from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to Parliament, there were appropriate margins, as Mr Schieder put it. One thing you have to say: The procedure, the documents we have received, was overall a weak performance of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is a bold approach by the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We got the documents in the autumn of last year. Colleagues Arbitrators already mentioned that there were problems with the translation. In December, a committee consultation had to be stopped because the documents were not correct. We have had a further committee consultation in January. It also had to be postponed because the documents were not complete and therefore we could not consult and could not make a decision. Ladies and gentlemen! This should not happen, and this is actually the expression of a certain ignorance towards Parliament. I regret the fact that this ignorance is becoming more apparent from the side of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I would have expected that a contribution would be made specifically by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in order to improve the connection, communication with Parliament and mutual understanding accordingly. Even though this has now been clarified, the whole debate has shown one thing: there are still some questions that need to be discussed. A very important question for me, which still needs appropriate advice, is the handling of Article 50 of the Federal Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen! This is Parliament's involvement in security and defence policy issues. Federal Minister! I believe that the way in which the Federal Government has taken and which you are going as Foreign Minister, which the Federal Minister of State for Defence is going, is a constitutionally incorrect way. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] Article 50 of the Austrian Constitution clearly states that political state agreements and state agreements having a legislative or legislative nature are subject to a decision-making procedure in Parliament. Mr Schieder has confirmed that the Socialist Group too has obviously received concerns and has reviewed this question. In this context, there is quite clearly an impact on individual legislative bodies. The fact that we are now discussing and deciding on this military statute clearly shows that the Austrian legal system must be supplemented and changed in detail. It was therefore a failure to do so at the time of the decision-making or even at the time of the signature of the agreements with NATO. I therefore expect you, Mr Federal Minister, and we have already mentioned this in the Committee, to do so. I expect this discussion to be held on cooperation with NATO and cooperation with other foreign armies in the National Council. I also ask that the Minister of Defence, like you, first of all inform Parliament of the documents, that the Minister of Defence also informs Parliament of all the agreements concluded with foreign armies and that we should then consult these agreements in Parliament. We've got this to do. This is our responsibility, and we have to live up to this responsibility. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I now come to the question of the status of troops. I have already said that we will vote in favour of this military statute. [[Abg. Wabl: Why if it contradicts the Constitution?]] I think it makes sense to take on board the 1951 statute of troops, because it is simply more appropriate and more favourable to take over this legal order or legal matter, which has proved itself in cooperation with the other States for decades, and which is less dependent on individual agreements. [[Abg. Young: What is beneficial about taking over invalid paragraphs that are not effective?]] Mr. Jung! All that is no longer effective will not be valid either in the cooperation between Austria and NATO or in the member countries of NATO and the member countries of the "Partnership for Peace". But overall, I believe that it is both more favourable and also a contribution to legal certainty, because all States, within the framework of the "Friend Partnership", cooperate on the same legal basis, i.e. their cooperation. There is no uncertainty about cooperation with the various armies, with the various partner countries, as a result of the absence of individual agreements. As you know, this cooperation within the framework of the "Partnership for Peace" is a multinational, it is often composed of up to ten, 15 nations, and it would be a great legal uncertainty if there were different legal bases in connection with the individual nations. That is why I think it makes sense. The question of the declarations made in connection with the signature makes less sense. I have my concerns, too, and I would like to make a comment on that. First of all, I would like to refer to the question of jurisdiction. My previous speakers have already mentioned the problem of the death penalty in the example of the incident in Cavalese. I would like to say the following: The statement states - and I quote from it - that the person concerned is only handed over to the authorities of the issuing State on condition that the death penalty is not imposed by the issuing State. This presupposes that first of all the person is also in the host State's power and can be protected. Experience has shown that this will not be possible really or often only hard. The second, ladies and gentlemen, is the question of imposing the death penalty. That is a question of sovereignty, it is a act of sovereignty of an independent court. It cannot therefore be foreseen whether the death penalty is imposed or not imposed. This means that the explanation in its form will be difficult to enforce and little realistic. I think we should not develop theoretical scenarios now, but we should wait for what the practice will bring to experience. I wish I could and hope that there will not be any criminal acts by army members within the framework of the "Partnership for Peace" in Austria. I also hope that there will not be any criminal acts of Austrian soldiers abroad. I agree with Mr Schieder that the question of national jurisdiction makes sense, in the sense of protecting those Austrian soldiers who are abroad in exercises or in maneuvers or in training. I also expect that, in the event of a criminal offence, the person concerned will be brought to Austria, will come to an independent court and be judged accordingly. Secondly and last point, and that concludes my remarks: the question of the Declaration on Neutrality. I consider the declarations on neutrality to be unnecessary in principle. I think we know our positions. We Liberals believe that neutrality is obsolete. This means that such a declaration should not have been made in the context of the signing of this Statute. I would like to ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Party of his party: If you have serious concerns about security policy, please also resolve the self-blocking of the Federal Government, then you also agree that we can discuss the security options in Parliament so that there can really be a comprehensive security policy debate in this country. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e3261	The next speaker is Mr Wabl. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Now there's Wabl Festival again!]] The watch is gladly set to 5 minutes. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Better be 10 minutes!]] 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e3304	Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am not in the FPÖ and will not be interested in civil law if I talk for more than five minutes, although the minute would, of course, be very expensive with me. Ladies and gentlemen! What I would particularly like to see in this debate is the question or intermediate question of Mr Ofner, to which Mr Schieder referred very elegantly, namely the question of what the practice looks like in a specific case of justice or extradition or persecution, as we can see from the current example in Italy. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Col. Schieder is always elegant!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schieder has scratched the curve very elegantly, saying that, in itself, the Americans would have to show total openness to the Italians and comply with these statutes, but that is a question of power. Furthermore, in a very remarkable opinion in connection with the superpower USA, which still has the death penalty, he has received a slight tone, which has given me the impression that – in order to formulate it so carefully – it is a very critical remark to this superpower. Tones that I am otherwise not so used to by the Social Democrats have appeared, at least not publicly. Ladies and gentlemen! As far as the public is concerned, the fact that we are in the process of giving up national sovereignty on matters of persecution is obvious. We are going through this treaty, which is being decided today, under the jurisdiction of the United States. Of course, the Socialists, the Greens and, I believe, all the other Members feel that the reservation on the death penalty is a reservation that must be enforced. But finally, Mr Schieder, it is a question of power which a country has to enforce. I recall countless cases of jurisdiction in which the United States of course exerted pressure on the respective country and demanded the extradition of foreign citizens into its country. Who guarantees us, Mr Arbitrator, that if Austrian soldiers practice in the United States – as has already been done without a legal basis – and there is a case of legal infringement, which would result in a death penalty in the United States, it will result in an immediate return of this Austrian citizen if the opinion of the people and the public press is so stored that it is not meant to be extradition? In such a case, I would like to look at the attitude of the Foreign Minister Schüssel or that of the President of the Federal Republic of Klestil when they antichambrate with Madame Albright or with Mr Bill Clinton, so that this citizen will come back to Austria when the opinion in this country is raised, if the pre-conception, as is very common in almost all countries, has already been accorded over the stage and the press demands the head. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: This also applies to tourists, diplomats, economic operators, pilots or reporters! This danger is being put off in every country!]] Member of the Arbitrator! You're right. It is clear that in the case of a person travelling to the USA and staying there, Austrian law does not apply. We also have clear rules in our criminal code. Ladies and gentlemen! Whoever has the power is also recognized by where we sign our contracts and our reservations. These are not presented in the NATO headquarters, but at the Madame Albright or at the American government. ==References== May be given a wonderful example of how Austrian information policy works and how NATO accession is prepared in this country. This is done without a detailed discussion of the advantages and disadvantages. I happened to see a foreign station reporting that the U.S. Senate has unanimously decided to extend NATO Easter. The news spokesman added in an addition that the American arms industry is expected to have arms orders of around 400 billion schilling, two thirds of the Austrian budget. Mr Maitz, you're shaking your head. This announcement, translated by APA, was published in the Agence France Press of 1. In May, no Austrian newspaper was co-imported. Mr Maitz! The type of information policy in the ORF was merely to bring the simple message that the American Senate has unanimously decided – unanimously decided – – by a large majority, the news spokesman has said so - to approve NATO enlargement, but nothing could be learned about the addition in the ORF. [[Abg. Young: Not unanimous!]] The fact that the American arms industry is hoping for these major orders has not been mentioned. Mr Maitz! I know that this is only a small detail, a totally irrelevant detail whether the American arms industry is expecting arms orders of two thirds of the Austrian budget. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: That's irrelevant!]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Hope she can!]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is always presented this way – Mr Spindelegger has already tried it – as if the Greens were an uncertain or not at all a partner in terms of security. I already know that for Mr Spindelegger, the safest partners are the arms partners, the arms companies. But we should go from this simple representation – who does more or less for security or who is more or less for peace – to this kind of black and white debate. The question is whether NATO can be overcome in the sense of a new construction, in the sense of the UN statues, in the sense of an international organization in which the right to power goes. Ladies and gentlemen! That is the crucial question. What you're doing here... [[Abg. Dr. Cap: That's the wrong question!]] I know the wrong question, Mr Cap, you always see it differently. Mr Mock has always pointed out that right without power is a macularity, that law without power is a macularity, and that has been seen in the war of Bosnia, but, ladies and gentlemen, it cannot be that we are adapting exclusively to the conditions of power in Europe and this world. And what you are doing here is just adapting to these conditions, without any right to make a decisive contribution to foreign policy. What social democracy is trying a little helpless is the rest of a previous-year foreign policy, Mr. Schieder. And I tell you, if we do not succeed in this area, a little more clear emphasis towards the UN to move towards the OSCE, so that these instruments are strengthened, then all this lamentation about a superpower that determines who owns weapons and who does not own weapons, who does not have to disarm and who does not have to disarm, who buy weapons and who does not buy them, who does not make sense. Look You're dealing with the case or the problem of India! I have partly followed the discussions on this subject. It was not simply the case that a country has said that it does not want to comply with international agreements, but India has decreed that this kind of US dictatorship is not acceptable to India. Just because Bill Clinton thinks he doesn't want any other nuclear power, a country has to look for other forms of defense. It cannot be that a superpower dictates who is good and who is evil. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] Mr Scheibner. Finally, in connection with this Treaty, which is decided today by you and the government parties, we will see that, in the end, Austrian citizens, Austrian soldiers, will be clearly under the jurisdiction of the USA, because in the end, the power is there. I think it is always touching when an Austrian declaration is added to a treaty, which sounds as similar as the Foreign Minister's statement on accession to the EU, namely that neutrality is not affected. There is a reinterpretation of what has already become a reality, and it is stated in point 3 that "the current applicable Austrian constitutional legislation in the fields of security and defence is not affected by the application of the Convention." Here, it is obvious to the Social Democrats, with a wonderful sentence, that they try to say with a wonderful explanation: If you don't mind, the world looks different, but we have noticed here that the world looks the way we want it, as the Foreign Minister wanted and likes it, and with this you want to welcome the Austrian people. Ladies and gentlemen! I not only consider this procedure to be unsanitary, but I consider this procedure to be dangerous. I hope that you will see in this question that we need as broad a discussion as possible, an open discussion and then a referendum. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e3424	The next speaker is Mr Maitz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e3445	Mr President. Foreign Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! With the adoption of the NATO troop statute, an internationally recognised, impeccable legal basis is created for Austrian soldiers and civilians engaged abroad. We want Austrian soldiers who have problems to be treated by Austrian institutions and courts. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] This military statute has also been created for soldiers and civilians from other countries participating in exercises in Austria. I would just like to say to colleagues Young and Kammerlander: This statute has been in the past 47 years, i.e. since the 19th century. In June 1951, it entered into force with the NATO countries. [[Abg. Wabl: Proven!]] [[Abg. Young: For members! For NATO members! But we don't think we want to be a member!]] Since the establishment of the NATO Partnership for Peace, 18 of the 27 partner states have ratified this Statute. Among them are all the neighbouring countries of Austria, including Mr Wabl, the neutral states of Finland and Sweden. [[Abg. Young: Sweden not yet!]] Faith You really are saying that all these states, all the professionals and all the political leaders have not understood what this statute means? I do not think that all those responsible need the re-help of colleagues, young or chambermen. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Maybe after Kammerlander!]] Mr. Jung! With your attempt to create confusion about this state of troops, you have failed in principle! [[Abg. Young: You can be confused so easily!]] Even from your attempt to construct something with loud words – that is the task of an aggressive opposition – nothing is left except for force expressions. [[Abg. Scheibner: The power expressions are from the spindlelegger!]] I am referring to Mr Jung's expressions of power. Is a taste sample desired? Please, Mr Scheibner. [[Abg. Scheibner: Please!]] Roasting methods, mogel pack, breach of constitution, murks, figs and so on. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: This is how the Rosenstingl has spoken in the Committee on Transport.]] This is the method of FPÖ! Mr Kammerlander took the terrible accident in Italy as the basis for her argument. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Crime! Not bad luck!]] Of course! That was an unforgivable personal misbehavior. Of course, those responsible will be held responsible in the courts of Western democratic states of law. [[Abg. Young: It's still open!]] Everything in its time! I want Austrians who have problems to be treated by Austrian institutions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Boy: That's not the case!]] Oh, yeah, that's right. I would just like to say to Mr Scheibner: If you no longer find any factual arguments, you take a stand for personal evasion. [[Abg. Scheibner: Where? Where? What kind of malice?]] I believe that Mr Spindelegger was not at all in favour of these abuses, because we are proud of our Lower Austrian Members. [[Abg. Scheibner: Then you didn't hear his speech!]] You have no reason at present to be proud of your Lower Austrian colleague Rosenstingl. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On the contrary: You should be silently ashamed of your Lower Austrian colleague, Rosenstingl, and not of Mr Spindelegger, because of unqualified abuses. [[Abg. Scheibner: Every time you need us, you come to us and regret! You can save yourself in the future! Sorry about the coalition partner!]] That's the truth, and you have to let them please you. We will agree with this legal basis, because we are taking an essential step towards the peace work of our soldiers.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e3683	The next speaker is Mr Gusenbauer. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e3739	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schieder has already pointed out that the debate today is a substitute debate, and he has also made a convincing reference to the various criticisms in detail. This is the reason why the debate has once again shifted to a general level of security policy since its speech, a situation which does not constitute any damage, because this has now led to an ever-increasing debate. I believe that our country will not be well served if we are constantly trying to emotionalize this debate. [[Abg. Scheibner: But you do it before every choice!]] Did I take any attack on you now, colleague Scheibner? [[Abg. Scheibner: No! But you're right!]] Was I unfair what your nervousness would explain? Or anything else? Is it possible to make an argument once without you going straight? [[Abg. Scheibner: I say you're right!]] Good! Mr Scheibner. Some of us are trying to bring this debate to an end. Let us not assume that our own position is 100 percent of the only possible position and that it will be the only one to protect Austria from war and to secure peace, but that we have been in a security-politically flexible situation since 1989, in which individual countries take different steps with a view to creating security, peace and stability in Europe. In this context, we note – and this is what I think is progressing – that we are trying to develop towards collective crisis management from the old Wagenburg-Metality expressed by the military blocks. This is actually the taking up of the old idea behind the founding of the United Nations. Now we are trying to live up to these instruments via additional instruments in Europe. In my view, Austria has not reasonably closed itself to these cooperation possibilities of extended form, but rather to the contrary all those levels of cooperation which are compatible with our constitutional basis, which is valid, and thus clearly underlined its willingness to do everything possible on the basis of the previous constitutional basis, within the framework of cooperation. [[Abg. Scheibner: "PfP-plus" and neutrality is a risky thing!]] All international experts expect to read the latest publications on this subject, according to which "PfP" and "PfP-plus" are the maximum possible cooperation under the alliance membership. [[Abg. Young: "PfP-plus" no longer!]] I also refer to future publications on this subject. [[Abg. Young: There are also violations under the alliance!]] This is the maximum variant based on the previous constitutional basis. I think it is a clean procedure to say that we are ready, on the basis of our constitutional laws, for solidarity and cooperation. [[Abg. Young: We don't mind either!]] Now some people, such as the representatives of the FPÖ or some of the ÖVP and the Liberal Forum, say that they want to go beyond that and become members of NATO. I think this is a legitimate concern, but I believe that this step is not necessary for Austria because it does not increase the security of this country. They are different. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Khol.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This is a discussion that can be conducted in a reasonable way. At the end of this process, if there is a majority in the House, I believe that the Austrian people should be involved. [[Abg. Young: Right!]] However, it is currently true that there are constitutional limits within which we have to move, which also requires the trust of the Austrian population. Therefore, statements such as those in the SOFA agreement – addressed to Mr Moser’s address – are absolutely necessary. [[Abg. Young: Are they legally binding? That's the problem!]] Because only because Mr Moser says that neutrality is irrelevant to him, as it is so to speak obsolete, is it not constitutionally abolished, but an existing Austrian constitutional law. The Federal Government and the National Council have the task of pointing out the constitutional boundaries in the context of such a declaration. One must therefore distinguish between what is necessary in order to take account of the current constitutional situation in such an agreement and the subjective political intention of colleagues Moser, Scheibner and others who go beyond what is currently the case. However, on the basis of what is currently a constitutional situation, I believe that this agreement is a clean constitutional implementation. At first and foremost, all participation in "PfP" and in "PfP-plus" clearly signal the willingness of Austria to participate in international crisis management on the basis of our current constitutional basis, that we are not a driver, that we are not sailing away from international responsibility and, within the scope of our possibilities, do what we think is right. [[Abg. Young: What about the validity in the war?]] As far as the case of war is concerned, the statement makes it absolutely clear that the preference must be given to neutrality in this case. [[Abg. Young: Why don't you write it?]] As far as Mr Wabl's comments are concerned, I should like to add two comments: Mr Wabl has dealt with a question that I think is very important. He asked whether there would be something in the future beyond NATO. For if one does not want the United States to be the only ones who decide who is good or what is evil, then the crucial question is whether there is something else that does not give the United States such a dominant position. [[Abg. Scheibner: That is where you have to become a member, Mr Colleague.]] Clearly, the only level I consider relevant in this context is the creation of a collective security system in Europe, starting from the heart of the European Union, and global cooperation within the United Nations. We both know that we are only at the beginning of a development in both areas, which is why the arguments in the direction of NATO sometimes sound very strong, but I believe that these are the two levels that can be developed. If Austrian social democracy has now decided to develop proposals, particularly in the field of European defence identity and cooperation, and to discuss them at European level, then this is really the first proposals made with the intention of not handing out any US dictatorships alone. This does not mean, however, that we continue to have a reasonable relationship with the USA and that there should be transatlantic cooperation. But if there is only one hegemon in the world who does not have to take into account how others behave, I also consider it unhealthy. – I therefore believe that strengthening the European component is not a threat or a rejection of transatlantic cooperation, but a crucial step towards achieving a reasonable balance in this area. [[Abg. Young: But you have to become a member!]] Mr Wabl! I would like to make one more point about what you said about India. Although I understand what you meant, we are facing a problem: If, on the one hand, we rightly demand from the nuclear weapons-bearing states that there should be nuclear disarmament – and it has actually existed in recent years – then on the other hand, we cannot admit new states that they are without consensus testing nuclear weapons and setting up nuclear weapons, otherwise the disarmament process is macularity. [[Abg. Wabl: That's no question!]] I think we agree on this. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the agreement we are going to conclude today is a constructive continuation of the Austrian security policy path on the basis of our given constitutional basis. There will not be any apocalypse with this agreement, neither will all cable cars in Austria crash, nor will the death penalty be imposed immediately everywhere, or which horror scenarios have not been presented. [[Abg. Scheibner: This is not about it!]] It is another step in Austria's classification into an international crisis management, and I think that is right.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e3983	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Mock. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e4005	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! When dealing with details that often determine the quality of an agreement or a political file, one can see the echo of the basic attitude. One is for greater security through greater solidarity in the area of security of one's own independence through military assistance – something which, for example, the NATO or the EU in principle – and the other is and has reservations. I therefore believe that we should not paint black and white. You have to see things clearly. Let us bear in mind what we have signed and explained in recent years, starting with the quote I brought yesterday, namely the ever-increasing European cooperation in all areas, including security and common foreign policy. If it is said, and we have also signed it, that the Western European Union is part of the development of the European Union, that is, a military aspect, if it continues to say that the common foreign and security policy should lead to a common defence policy and could even lead to a common defence policy, then it is clear that it is obvious that we are trying to defend our interests and our independence and freedom together in solidarity. If so much is said about the solidarity needed for a new Europe, then we should also practice solidarity where it is most important, where the greatest value lies, namely the independence of a country and the independence and freedom of its citizens. For all these questions – as important as they are in detail – are mainly about the security of our country and the freedom of its citizens. That's the central goal! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] International law, neutrality, nature of the federal army and many others are important questions, but they have to be subordinated to that. They are only instruments to safeguard the freedom of our country and its citizens. There are also changes. On the question of neutrality, it must be said that in 1946 and 1945 specialists declared that a neutral state cannot even become a member of the United Nations. This discussion was held for a time when Sweden wanted to become a member of the United Nations. The question of whether this was at all possible was then confirmed that membership was fully accepted. The problem of respect for the effects of neutrality in a United Nations collective security act has been abandoned. The collective security took precedence. Today, there are already theses, which say that regional security, if approved by the UN, takes precedence over the effects of the Neutrality Act on military conflicts. [[Abg. Scheibner: But there is no longer much left of the security aspect!]] Right! Today, in a constant process in phases, a change in the concept of neutrality – one can also say depreciation, depending on how one sees it – is discussed. This has also been partly – I only call the neutrality from 1918 to 1938 – but never to a degree as it is today. There are substantial changes! Nevertheless, one cannot say that it is opportunism to adapt to this matter. In practical terms, too, when we presented the letter of accession to the European Union, the question of a reservation to ensure neutrality was certainly up-to-date. Four, five years later, no one asked for it anymore, there was a different understanding of it. Life has its dynamics. It is important that this should not be misused opportunistically in the sense of one's own theses, but that such important questions should be dealt with in such a consensual way as possible. Mr Kammerlander! I would also like to say something very clearly about Cavalese here. It is unfortunate, terrible for the families, but if you say if we agree to this agreement, we also risk such incidents, then I must tell you: We always risk dangers. But in order to avoid the greatest risk of the greatest damage, we want a safety concept that really works in practice. We therefore seek membership of these organisations because we do not want war, no military conflict, no displaced people in our country, no refugees, because we want a certain "wagenburg" support, Mr Gusenbauer. I would have been glad if we had had this "Wagenburg" against the then annexion or occupation of Austria in 1938. We didn't have her. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and acclaim of the Abg. May. Peter.]] I was always a great admirer of the English Parliament. By a majority of 366 to 144 votes, the Munich agreement was approved at the time – in Parliament with the greatest democratic tradition – an agreement that has practically taken note of everything that happened to us in 1938, with Czechoslovakia and many other countries. I believe that we should learn from the fact that a small step can often have great effect, and we should continue to do so in the future. That can only be good for our country.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e4054	President. — The debate is closed. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e4076	Mr President. High house! First of all, I am grateful for the really quality discussion and debate. A number of questions have been raised which I would like to comment on. The first – and it is, I believe, important to hold this – is: This is not a pre-accession to NATO. No one wants me to be the least. I am fighting for an honest and open discussion, and everyone can be sure that the debate will not be held on the back door or on any constitutional footings. This agreement has only one meaning: to put the exercises for the "Partnership for Peace" on a constitutionally sound basis. Nothing else. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] This agreement is based on good practice. Of course, the NATO troop statute provides several possibilities. It applies to permanent placements, it applies to exercises. For us, of course, no permanent stations are in question because of the definition. Like all other peace partners, we also agree with an agreement that regulates technical, legal, political all the foreseeable accompanying circumstances that can be taken into account, in the sense of legal certainty. Together with Azerbaijan and Ukraine, we are the last country to ratify this agreement. That is why it is really high time the Austrian National Council took this step. No one has the right – I expressly say so – no other country has the right to station foreign troops in Austria against our will. Rather, this agreement imposes such troops and persons, Austrian laws and regulations on their stay in Austria. That's, I think, the core, that's what it's all about. An accusation has been made which I take very seriously, namely that the whole PfP complex, i.e. the "partnership-for-the-peace" complex, should have been presented to Parliament. I have, above all, taken seriously and seriously Peter Schieder, the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Security, very cleverly and decisively. I was the one – and I say that clearly – who has responded politically and, I believe, made all relevant documents available to the political groups, to the wishes of all political groups. I really reject only one, Mr Moser, with determination, namely the wording "Ignorsance of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or of the Foreign Minister towards Parliament". [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Deputies! It is therefore necessary to deal with such an accusation carefully because it meets me – I say so quite openly. I am, at least, six times elected Member of this House, was a member of Parliament for ten years and is now nine years Minister, who has relinquished his mandate. I mean it very seriously with the relationship between Parliament and the Government, but I cannot choose whether it is politically appropriate to present something or not. That is the decision of the Constitutional Service, the legislative service of Parliament or the International Law Bureau. If I am told that I can and should present this, you already have every assurance per futuro from me that all relevant documents will be made available to Parliament. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] But don't expect me to stand against a legitimate view of the Constitutional Service or the International Law Bureau for such political opportunities. I have found my way through providing all relevant documents to the political groups. I hope that this point is cleared between us, which is important to me. The question was asked: How was it with the previous exercises? And I said, In the past, either soldiers or police officers from Austria have been available under individual arrangements, or they have been subject to the jurisdiction of the host country. In the case of America, I have re-examined this as a result of the Committee's discussion. In this US exercise, in which Austrians were involved, there were technical arrangements, a Memorandum of Understanding. This is probably referred to by the Minister of Defence. In the jurisdiction, however, the Austrians in the USA have been subject to American law. That is the point, and that is not satisfactory, I say quite openly. I therefore welcome today's decision of the Austrian National Council. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The Green Parliamentarians certainly have the clearest position here, because they are against NATO, against the "Partnership for Peace", and therefore, logically, they also have to reject this military stationing or exercise agreement. Therefore, legitimate questions have been raised by the principle: Is there an alternative to "Partnership for Peace" or membership within NATO? Or, for example, are there other possibilities within the UN, within the OSCE? I also express my deep conviction that I am opposed to this increase in a contrast: either NATO or something else. This is also wrong in practice. I believe that these are not alternatives, but supplements, symbiosis. For it is clear that today under UN mandate, but with NATO command of peace in Bosnia, the return of refugees will be possible, war criminals will be hunted – not always with sufficient success. I also say quite frankly that some sounds bother me, even in the public debate, that one actually acts as if the Americans were an unwanted enemy or made an unwanted parallel action. As an Austrian Foreign Minister and as a member of the EU, I am glad that the efforts of the European Union, but also through Richard Holbrooke's conciliation efforts, have been successful together in these days, that Miloševi% will finally receive the Albanian Kosovon leader Rugova on Friday. This is a common success that we have achieved, and the EU is no less involved, as Richard Holbrooke shows, which is currently on a shuttle mission. I would therefore like to say that we are freeing ourselves from these anti-Americans, who, in my opinion, are not at all of any help and of no use at all. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I would like to follow up with Mr Gusenbauer's statement, which he made with regard to the nuclear tests carried out by India. Perhaps it came out badly, I also understood it as if a certain understanding of the Indian position or the Indian nuclear tests would have worked through: As the Americans do not want to allow new nuclear powers to exist, we must therefore have a little understanding of them. I clearly condemned yesterday what India did. For me, there is no difference at all – and we have spoken in common against it – whether France, whether the Americans, whether the Chinese or now the Indians are carrying out such nuclear tests, whether above ground or under the earth. Austria, a small country, has maintained with other allies worldwide, in the UN context, that there is a comprehensive nuclear test stop that there is a contract that must be observed internationally. We also want those countries that have not yet joined to be involved in this world alliance against nuclear testing. We Austrians are all the more entitled to do so because Vienna is the world capital in the fight against the nuclear bomb. CTBTO has its seat here. And that is why I would like to see it applied not only to verbal condemnation by individual politicians – I did it yesterday. It is paradoxical and almost bitter that at the birthplace of Gautama Buddha these nuclear attempts, three in the number, in the desert, were made near the Pakistani border, still on Buddha's birthday. I really invite you to do so – and I ask you formally – that perhaps today, in a joint resolution, the Austrian National Council expresses this concern that these Indian attempts will set a further spiral on the way to the arms race in nuclear technology. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e4181	Thank you, Minister of State. Mrs Petrovic. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e4205	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! – Minister of State! It has never been about anti-Americanism in the debate, but it is about the legitimate question of control of power in the international area. And I'm asking you: What were the reactions to the French nuclear tests in Mururoa? I think all nuclear tests can be condemned. Two short points on the NATO troop statute. There seems to be no longer any core existence of neutrality. Mein Ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, your lip commitment to an empty formula neutrality is useless. Federal Minister! This troop statute and the consequences undermine Austrian security. If we agree that security is, above all, at risk of poverty, caused by migration, then I ask you why 400 billion schillings are now being upgraded in the reform states. Mr Mock said correctly yesterday that an economic Marshall plan should finally be made which must increase wages and income, and we need a better standard of living in our neighbouring countries. Austria's security will be undermined when 11 000 million schilling for JAGUAR and LEOPARD tanks and the expensive accessories are spent while 600 million schilling is almost impossible for kindergartens. This upgrade undermines social security in Austria! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Extensive opposition to the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Another thing: Yesterday, we passed a law on the ugly name of the "Authorisation Act" in connection with the Treaty of Amsterdam. In addition to Mr Schieder, no one in the committee was able to outline the current basic principles of the Austrian federal constitution, because we no longer know what constitutional law and what the constitutional law is all about. Now this empowerment strategy is apparently being extended to the war economics sector. Member of the Arbitrator! I don't know how you keep it with § 62 StGB. There is something very clear about domestic criminal acts. These are, in principle, also punishable domestically. If exceptions are created here for a particular group of persons, I ask you why you are creating these exceptions precisely for an organization that makes evidence disappear, simply destroys tape recordings as evidence, and lets a writer disappear – and that in the face of 21 dead civilians.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e4260	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. There is no wish at the end of the rapporteur's speech. That is why we can vote. We shall vote on the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs to give approval to the conclusion of the State Treaty and the Austrian Declarations in 943 and 943 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a sign. – I notice that this is the majority. The conclusion of the State Treaty in question was thus approved. It's the first time we've ever seen it. Agenda item. 2. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government template (907 of the Supplements): European Convention for the Protection of Pets (1171 of Supplements) 3rd. Point Report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on Amendment No 619/A (E) by Mr Stefan Salzlund Comrades on diplomatic measures against the Republic of Malta in order to reduce the hunting of migratory birds (1172 of the supplements) 4. Point Report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on Amendment No 672/A (E) by Mrs Ing. Monika Langthalerand comrades concerning the accession of Austria to the Convention for the Conservation of Migratory Wildlife (Bonner Convention) (1173 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e4341	We come to points 2 to 4 of the agenda. The debate is under one. There was no oral reporting. We are therefore going into the debate immediately. Mr Salzl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e4371	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Since these three agenda items deal with the protection of pet animals and the conservation of animal species, let me first make some fundamental comments on animal welfare in Austria. At present, we still have the unsatisfying regulation that we have nine different national animal welfare laws with partly very different regulations to ensure the protection of our fellow creatures. This is often the case because, as has been said, different regulations exist in the different Länder. This will lead to animal torments and abuse Door and gate open. For this reason, dedicated animal protectionists have initiated, with much effort and effort, a popular animal welfare desire about two years ago, in which federal uniform regulations are required in the form of a federal uniform animal welfare law. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The treatment of this popular animal welfare desire clearly shows how little serious this coalition government is taking direct democracy on the one hand and, on the other, the ignorance of the concerns and wishes of some 650 000 signers on the other. Ladies and gentlemen! For almost two years now, a successful popular desire for animal welfare with approximately 460 000 signatures has been ignored, and it is to be said that further about 200 000 signatures have been delivered to this popular desire, and have been shoved in the Subcommittee. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The ÖVP is walling with its Khol brake, and the SPÖ, with its Mr Kostelka, does not want to make this federal uniform animal welfare law a coalition issue, as he himself has explained. I can remember very well, ladies and gentlemen, that a few years ago a Mr. Klima – then still Minister – promised the animal welfare workers at the Austrian animal welfare convention and, of course, before the election of this Federal Animal Protection Act. Now it turns out to the suffering of the animals that the alleged maker climate with his beiwagerl bowl once again does not fulfill a promise made. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Now, the decision of this European Convention on the Protection of Pets seeks to cover the inability and to shift it to the EU. It is argued that membership of this Convention is a sign of the importance of animal welfare in all areas in Austria and that this would strengthen international reputation. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Let me clarify two things with regard to this argumentation. Firstly, it is not about animal welfare in all areas, but only about pet animals, and secondly, Austria would certainly have much more international reputation if it were finally to harmonise and improve animal welfare aspects in the national area. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] The demands of hundreds of thousands of signatorys should therefore finally be taken seriously and implemented. Of course, something must also happen at EU level. We liberals, in particular, have made a request on the occasion of the World Animal Protection Day in Parliament about two years ago, but unfortunately it was rejected by the coalition parties – unfortunately also by the Greens at the time. Ladies and gentlemen! It is also significant for this ignorance of animal welfare that the request of the liberals concerning diplomatic action and negotiations with Malta was rejected in order to restrict the catch and hunting of certain birds, especially birds of the Singbirds. According to estimates by German bird protection associations, 1.5 million of the birds caught there are birds of song, protected species such as storks, blues, falcons, vultures. So it would really be time to take diplomatic steps and become active in this regard. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is therefore regrettable that this request has been rejected. The fact is, however, that we, in particular, have committed ourselves to the accession to this Convention and will also agree to it. In the future, however, we will also step up our efforts to ensure that the malpractice shown in the field of animal welfare is actually discontinued. In this context, I would like to mention the activities of animal welfare organisations and thank them. In an animal welfare memorandum, they called for the Federal Government to step up its efforts within the framework of the Austrian Presidency in the European Council on animal welfare matters. As I said, I thank these animal welfare organisations and can signal them the support and approval of the Freedom Party. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e4444	Mrs Rauch-Kallat has spoken. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e4465	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The Convention lays down principles and detailed provisions on the position, breeding, trade and animal welfare killing of pet animals, as well as animal welfare provisions on the use of pet animals for the purposes of the display and competition, as well as on the treatment of wild animals. That Austria had already agreed to this Convention, which had already been signed on 13 December. ==References====External links== A further step has been taken to take into account the importance of animal welfare in Austria in May 1992. The motion for a resolution by Mr Langthaler and Mr Petrovic on the accession of Austria to the Convention on the Conservation of Migratory Wildlife, that is to say the Bonn Convention, is also another necessary step, in particular as regards a global Convention on Migratory Animals. My group will therefore be happy to vote in favour of this motion for a resolution. I believe that these two measures are an important step towards an EU-wide and Europe-wide harmonisation of animal welfare, as the Austrian People's Party in the Franz-von-Assisi initiative has repeatedly referred to them. Mr Salzl referred to animal welfare in Austria. I believe that, in particular, with the efforts to conclude an Article 15a contract in livestock farming, which was adopted by all nine federal states, we have created a European model scheme which will also enable our farmers to face the tough competition with animal husbandry. We have agreed in the Government Agreement with the Coalition Partner on the establishment of a uniform system of animal welfare, and I believe that this uniform system will be available very soon. Last June, the Heads of State or Government decided to seek this uniform regime in the form of Article 15a contracts. [[Abg. Dr Gredler: Why not a law?]] They have also drawn up the draft Article 15a Treaty, which was cancelled a few days ago by the State Directors' Conference. I assume that this draft will take place at the next national conference. It will be discussed on the basis of a report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. I was very surprised when last week I read in a daily newspaper that Klubobmann Kostelka will try by all means to bring down this federal system through a blockade in the country days. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, I do not understand. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You, ladies and gentlemen, of the SPÖ, of the Greens, the Liberals and the Liberals, may not be concerned with solving a question of competence. I have always assumed that you are concerned with creating protection provisions for animals. That's what the ÖVP wants, and it's what they'll do. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Austria is, of course, in addition to this Convention, which will provide for strict uniform regulations in these areas throughout Europe in the case of pet farming, for example in zoo-keeping or in the circus. We are therefore concerned that Austria, especially during the European Presidency, should focus on this area. In recent days, several animal welfare organisations have jointly published a memorandum for the Austrian Presidency of the European Council, which strengthens, in particular, on the issue of the holding of chickens, the labelling of eggs, the prohibition of animal testing, the abolition of subsidies for slaughter animal exports and the killing of newborn calves and the adoption of a binding directive on the conservation of wild animals in zoos. I can say that, for example, Austria is also a leader in animal testing. It was Minister of Science Busek, who virtually eliminated animal testing in Austria and introduced very strict provisions in this area. I am therefore very glad that there are also appropriate preparations for such a focus during the Austrian Presidency within the framework of the relevant Austrian Ministries. I would like to thank Mr Vice-Chancellor and Foreign Minister for the fact that, during the Italian Presidency, he has already placed a particular emphasis on this issue with the Italians and that, now, in Austria, the Minister of Agriculture is preparing to make arrangements in Europe, particularly in the agricultural sector. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to tell you that I do not waive a word on the question of whaling because the Austrian People's Party attaches little importance to this, but simply to make economic use of the limited speaking time. Austria is also concerned about whaling, although these animals are not represented in Austria, with the importance Austria attaches to animal welfare, and we will therefore be happy to agree to this change.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e4515	Mr Magistrate has now been reported to speak. Dr. Grollisch. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e4536	Mr President. Foreign Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Rauch-Kallat has just mentioned Austria's pioneering role in animal welfare. I will now show you the role of Austria in this regard. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The debate on the Bonn Convention for the Conservation of Migratory Wildlife finally gives us the opportunity to talk about a rapidly growing problem in Austria's waters. I am happy, Mr Minister of Foreign Affairs, that you are a contact person on this subject, since I have met with your party colleague, Mr Molterer, on this matter in recent years. [[Vice chancellor Dr. Schüssel speaks to the abg. Murauer.]] I would like to ask you to pay your full attention for 4 minutes, Mr Foreign Minister. It is about the issue of the mainland breed of the Kormoran, a bird species that lives on the North and Baltic Sea and visits our native waters in the winter months, and that in the last three years with a population so exploding that the extinction of native fish species has become reality not only a threat but already a threat. The cormorant is able to eliminate up to 98 percent of the stock in fish waters – these are scientifically protected data – within a short time. The Bonn Convention now provides for the proper protection of these species on the one hand. The Annexes mention those species which also need protection in Austria, which is of course to be signed. However, the Bonn Convention also provides for the possibility, where relevant scientific data are available, that the populations have exceeded quantities which exclude the risk of the breed being released from animals listed in Annex 1. And this very passage of the Convention should come to fruition in the near future. You, Mr Foreign Minister, may be the third resolution. Two years ago, two years ago, the Cormoran problem was known in the EU Parliament, which will sleep only in Austria. Germany has long responded with an appropriate law. The Bonn Convention was made a federal law as early as 1983, immediately after its signature. Austria has been sleeping in front of itself since then. The EU has been giving countries the opportunity to prepare national regulations for two years by removing the cormorant from the Bird Protection Directives. It is not meant to be a Halali to these imposing birds, but it should be responded to in local management across the EU and corresponding countings are taking place. Above all, one should happen, and this sleeps not only the covenant, but also the countries: A kind of disaster fund should provide funds to prepare for revitalisation. We need action across the country. Your colleague Molterer wrote to me a month ago – and may this statement be broken on the tongue – that the signing of the Bonn Convention for the Conservation of Migratory Wildlife falls within the competence of the countries. So what we will decide shortly – including the liberals who will agree to the signing of the Bonn Convention – the Minister of Agriculture moved to the area of the countries a year ago. In federalism hysteria, everything in the field of animal welfare programmes has been unjustly moved to the country level in order not to have to take action. I hope that the signing of the Bonn Convention will remove this evil – and it has become such. During the winter months of the last two years, about 8,000 of these birds have visited us. There is no historical evidence that ever there were cormorants in this number in our Alpine area. They have caused damage of more than 200 million schilling, on the sole basis of fishing costs. And that's why the subject is not appropriate, Mrs Rauch-Kallat, that you are touching in wounds, as you did yesterday at a comparable amount. Cormorants have damaged some 400 000 Austrian fishermen, some 10,000 Austrian fishermen, some 1,500 Austrian fishermen - a huge damage has resulted. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Was that the Rosenstingl?]] I understand your point of view, too, Mrs Petrovic. It is not just about protecting these persons, but about keeping the birds in an acceptable order – not through a Halali to repeat it, but through appropriate management on site and by removing the cormorant from Annex 1. That's our concern. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e4587	Mrs Perfuss is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e4608	Mr President. Federal Minister! As an animal protection spokesman for the Social Democrats, I would like to briefly address Agenda items 2 to 4, in the context of this debate, and to draw attention, in the sense of the 650 000 Signatories of the Animal Protection Act in Austria, to the need for a single federal animal welfare law. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The Socialists have initiated a hearing and presented a draft which, I believe, is forward-looking. We will have an opportunity at the next meeting of the Subcommittee on 9 May. I would like to talk about it on June, and I am delighted, Mrs Rauch-Kallat, what the countries will be presenting. We are not concerned with disputes of competence, but with efficiency in the field of animal welfare. The articles-15a – we have some experience – are unfortunately not the best of God. The European Convention on the Protection of Pets is welcome because it seeks to achieve further harmonisation of the different animal welfare rights in the Member States of the Council of Europe. However, the same should apply to Austria, because nine different national animal welfare laws make the implementation much more difficult. The regulations in the field of breeding, the attitude, the animal shelters, the exhibitions, but above all the surgical interventions are of great importance, because in these areas there are still the most different regulations in Austria. It remains to be hoped that, contrary to the experience gained from the past of this Convention, the federal states will carry out as soon as possible. Individual weaknesses must be removed in the area of animal welfare, for example, finally put an end to copper tourism in Austria. The SPÖ draft for a federal animal welfare law contains the same requirements and regulations in the field of pet animals as the European Convention. Although I welcome this agreement within the meaning of the animals, I would like to once again note the need for a Federal Animal Protection Act. As an animal protection speaker, I am particularly pleased when all the political groups in this House are voting in favour of harmonising different animal welfare standards in the EU area. I therefore hope that this will also prevail domestically. As we all know, the current state of animal welfare is unsatisfying and insufficient, although it is a good thing that has changed a lot in recent times. However, we Social Democrats will continue to be those who take action in the field of animal welfare in the future for intensification. For example, I would like to say that only yesterday, the Social Democratic Council, Othmar Raus, introduced a new animal welfare scheme in Salzburg, with which it takes an important step in the protection of wild animals. This Regulation lays down which wild animals are no longer kept in Circussen in Salzburg and which may no longer be transported in the future. In this area, the dilemma of the Article 15a agreement is also evident: it was originally planned to draw up common directives with an Article 15a agreement in all Austrian states. Especially the Salzburg Social Democrats have insisted on including tigers, lions, elephants and Mungos. However, the other federal states did not want any stricter provisions on animal welfare. That is exactly the problem of Article 15a agreement, Mrs Rauch-Kallat. Here I would like to follow the request made by Mr Langthaler regarding the accession of Austria to the Convention on the Conservation of Migratory Wildlife, in short Bonn Convention. Austria and Greece are the only two EU countries that, as you know, have not yet signed this Convention, and that is actually embarrassing. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: That's it!]] Unfortunately, in Austria, the federal states are still refusing to agree to this convention, and it will be up to Mr Bartenstein to convince his colleague and colleagues in the federal states of the need for this Convention. Federal Minister Bartenstein is for it; it is once again the federal colleagues who block. Although Austria is involved in partnerships with different states and national parks, this accession is necessary in order to protect animals worldwide and, above all, border-independent, especially those species which are threatened with extinction. Animal welfare cannot stop beyond its borders. In addition, Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Kostelka and I were appointed by the Animal Protection Organization "Four Pfoten" gives a memorandum for higher animal welfare standards in Europe. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] This is a task that we must be very serious. And as far as there is a possibility, these demands must be made during the EU Presidency of Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e4664	Mrs Parfuss, only to clarify: You didn't like the bell sign. Excuse me! Has That's why she broke off? [[Abg. Perfuss: No, I was done anyway!]] The gentlemen concerned already know who was meant to be. As the next speaker, Mr Kurzmann has been reported. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e4693	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! One must not be students of the Austrian Nobel Prizewinner Konrad Lorenz in order to emphasize the importance of animal welfare to our society. A criterion – and I admit: one of several – for the recognition of a people as a cultural nation is probably also the standard of its animal welfare legislation. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The National Freedom Council Group welcomes the ratification of the European Convention on the Protection of Pets, because it contains uniform principles and detailed provisions on the attitude, breeding, trade and animal welfare-friendly killing, if necessary, of pet animals. What surprised me, however, was the duration until this government template reached the Austrian Parliament. For I have read the documents that this Convention was first signed in 1987. We are writing this year 1998, so 11 years have gone unprofitable. However, the prospect of a late – but a little late – harmonisation of the Austrian animal welfare legislation is satisfactory. As we have already heard, the animal welfare law is regulated differently in the nine federal states. As a result of the accession to this Convention, it is now possible to legislate another failure of the Federal Government. Two years ago, there was a successful popular desire for animal welfare, but unfortunately – how many results of direct democracy in this country – was ignored by those responsible. One important concern, which should not simply be smiled mildly, is Mr Salzl's motion for a resolution on the protection of migratory birds. This request, unfortunately, remained in the minority in the Committee on Foreign Affairs last Friday. He saw the introduction of diplomatic steps against the Republic of Malta. In this holiday country, which is increasingly also frequented by our compatriots, migratory birds are caught and hunted without restriction. Around 1.5 million falcons, storks and blue-racks are shot down year after year, entire flocks of songbirds are caught and then kept in cages. I believe that a reduction in hunting would be urgently needed in this case. The decline in the number of migratory birds and songbirds, which is also found by conservationists for Austria, is also due to these abuses in Malta, as the animals are forced to stop on this island on their migration from Europe to Africa and back. The argument that there should be nothing to do with regard to the domestic economy is not understandable to me, nor is it conclusive. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Finally, I should like to say that the freedom of the National Council Group will support Mrs Langthaler's motion for a resolution concerning the accession of Austria to the Convention on the Conservation of Migratory Wildlife. We have not yet been able to do so in the Committee because the Bonn Convention was not known to us in all the details. But I hope - and I really do conclude with this - that these laws, which are to be adopted, and the high level of compliance of animal welfare in Austria and its neighbouring countries with today's decisions will be further improved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e4751	Mrs Gredler has spoken. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e4772	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to respond to the speech by Mrs Rauch-Kallat. Yes, we expect you to meet with your representatives in the federal states with an article 15a agreement. Such Article 15a agreements have the disadvantage that they have no "tens" that there are no sanctions. Therefore, we find it much better to get a uniform law from the Liberal Forum so that there are no differences in the treatment of animals – whether this is in Lower Austria, Tyrol, Styria or wherever – without sanctions. The "beautiful" report of the Committee on Foreign Policy on the Convention on the Protection of Pets represents the following costs: In Burgenland and in Vienna there are no costs, in Carinthia, Upper Austria and Tyrol minimum costs and in Lower Austria, Salzburg, Styria and Vorarlberg not affordable costs. A law that states that the costs in some federal states are not affordable, I already like to. I consider these regulations, which we have in Austria with regard to the protection of pet animals, to be a special pikanery. In order to see what consequences this has and why it is necessary to protect pet animals, I can only read from an article of the news magazine "Focus", which has been given to me by the association "Four Pfoten": Mops and pekines were almost bred away – as a result: breathing, heart problems. Shar Pei: The dog is covered with wrinkles throughout the body. In many cases, it must be operated immediately after birth so that it can look out of the skin. Chinese Nackthund: is allergic to sun, mortality: 75 percent. Dalmatian soups: Death: 40 percent. In view of such conditions, I say to myself: No, I don't want such animals as pets! I would like us all to be able to keep healthy animals at home – and I am sure that the breeders will want to do the same. I'm against such things as they've been playing lately. With regard to couplings: What's the point of coppering a dog? . I do not at all see why one should torture a dog, and that is why it would really be a great concern for me if one were to come to a uniform animal welfare law and not to make Article-15a agreements in this respect. On the next item on the agenda, concerning Dr. Salzl's concern about diplomatic action towards the Republic of Malta, I can only say the following: In the final paragraph of his application, I quote: Within the EU, support and benefits granted so far to the Republic of Malta should be made dependent on the recruitment of bird-hunting and bird-catching. – These are demands that I am unfortunately unable to understand. There are so many abuses, including in the field of animal welfare. If accession to the EU had been made conditional on the elimination of these maladministrations, Austria would still not be in the EU. On the other hand, the EU offers exactly the opportunity to exert pressure on certain countries, as well as Malta, and then to achieve a positive outcome. As far as bird hunting is concerned, there are also very strict rules on what is happening in the times of this hunt. These have been discussed two years ago in the European Parliament, and I believe that there is currently no increased need for new regulations. Therefore, I would like to see the link with the EU's favour for the Republic of Malta independent of the bird hunt and would not mix it. In itself, your concern is to be supported, Mr Salzl, but right and worthy. Thirdly and last point, to the Bonn Convention. I would like to thank Mrs Langthaler for having managed to bring this issue to Parliament at last. I quote Mr Bartenstein with a statement from 1997, in which he shows his dissatisfaction: It appeals to the federal states, whose resistance to the signing of the Treaty has so far failed to stand up for the conditions for the accession of Austria to this Convention. – That was in 1997. It took a year to react. Environment Minister Bartenstein also said that he would be more committed to nature conservation activities in the EU during the Austrian EU Presidency. – I’m curious about what he’s talking about, because much I haven’t noticed so far. The Convention, which has actually been in force since 1983, has been a member country such as Egypt, Ghana, Guinea, Cameroon, Morocco, Senegal, Somalia and Zaire. 43 States have already signed this Convention in 1994 and it is unfortunate that we all actually needed so long until we have gained this knowledge in the House too. Thank you, Mrs Langthaler, for your initiative.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e4832	There is a speech by Mrs Petrovic. Speaking time: 3 minutes. Mrs Langthaler. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank Mrs Langthaler for his excellent report. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e4854	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Two very brief comments on the statements made by my previous speakers. On the comments by Mr Grollitsch: I think we should be overall careful about terminology when we talk about humans on the one hand and animals on the other. I mean, if animals – of course! – Feed and water, as well as a certain proportion of habitat, should not be spoken of as "damage". The animals live, and they need habitat. With regard to cormorants, they have called a "damage sum" – under quotation marks – of 200 million schilling. I do not like the cormorants on such a sum, Mr Grollitsch. On the comments by Mrs Parfuss: It is gratifying that the animal protection memorandum, which you have gratefully mentioned, is not only a product of the association "Four Pfoten", but is supported by very essential animal welfare organisations in Austria, in particular by the International Federation of Animal Testers, by the Association against Animal Factorys and the Association "RespectAnimals". xxxcr.Paul I can't read the entire lattice of the supporters here. However, it is particularly gratifying that this goes beyond the animal welfare organizations in the narrower sense. There are also scientific university institutes as well as associations of doctors, and I think that really makes the link between animal protection, environmental protection and health protection clear. Content: For me personally, the better protection of pet animals and a European understanding of them are actually a matter of course. On the subject of wildlife, Mr Langthaler will then say something. What should be most important to all of us now – and I hope that we will get as broad a consensus as possible – is that it is true during the Austrian Presidency to implement some minimum demands. We can reach these in the next half year. Now, Europe is looking for Austria. And I think, so cheaply, the opportunity has never been to implement a few really, almost logical demands, such as the abolition of the subsidisation of animal torture with public money, namely for long-haul transports, cattle transports and for the killing of newborn calves. Mrs Rauch-Kallat, you have said that you will make yourself strong for this. Very concrete: The Conservative Members have the power to prevent this waste of subsidies. At European level, vote against the budget, and there will be no majority! You, your colleague Flemming, and your colleagues have this in hand. The ban on animal testing for cosmetics is not enough only to do so as far as the abolition of leguminous batteries and the prohibition of animal testing for cosmetics is concerned. I think we all have the power to do something about it. One last thing: I am very sad that the Biopatent Directive has been adopted with the votes of the Conservatives, because a patent on animal life is something which is absolutely incompatible with the dignity of living beings.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e4904	Mrs Ing. Langthaler has yet to speak. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e4925	Mr President. Unfortunately, I do not have much time to speak. That's why in a short time: Here in the House, not often a success of the Greens is to be celebrated, in so far as a request by the Greens is obviously to be adopted unanimously. I would like to refer briefly to the content of this request, namely that the Federal Government join the Bonn Convention as soon as possible, and to the history of this Convention. The suggestion for this came at the first major environmental conference in 1972, which was completed and which opened up for signature in 1979, it entered into force in 1983. We are now writing the year 1998, and Austria is still not a member of this international convention. In my opinion, there is hardly any better example to demonstrate how necessary it would be to finally create in Austria a competence at the federal level for nature conservation and a federal animal welfare law. There is no better example than this Convention. Minister for Foreign Affairs, I would You really ask – otherwise you are always concerned with as important things as NATO and the classic foreign policy areas –: This is about the medium and long-term future of the population, about very essential and very existential things, namely the conservation of biodiversity. I would You really ask to take this issue a little more seriously and, as an EIA-Obmann, at last urge the federal states to join this convention and finally sign this agreement. Indeed, it is not an example of an EU Presidency if, together with Greece, we are the only EU country that has not yet signed and ratified this Convention. It is a first important step after more than 20 years here in this House that we join an international convention. Mr Minister, I expect you to implement this unanimous wish of this House as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e4962	There is no more word message. The debate is closed. The report does not wish to conclude. We shall now proceed to the vote. We shall vote separately on each of the Committee's proposals, first of all on the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs to approve the conclusion of the State Treaty in 907 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for the approval to give a sign of approval. – That is unanimous. The approval shall be granted unanimously. I now turn to the request made by the Committee on Foreign Policy, according to which the present State Treaty, within the meaning of Article 50(1) of the Treaty, refers. 2 Federal Constitutional Act by passed laws to be complied with. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – This request was adopted unanimously. We are now voting on the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs to take note of its report 1172 of the supplements. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This notice is mostly accepted. We are now voting on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report in 1173. Whoever is in favour of this resolution, I would ask for a sign of approval. This resolution has been adopted by a majority. (E 118.) 5. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government Template (1042 of the Supplements): Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of Ukraine on information exchange and cooperation in the fields of nuclear safety and radiation protection and installations (1174 of the Supplements) 6. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government Template (1087 of the Supplements): Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Slovenia on the early exchange of information on radiological hazards and on issues of common interest in the field of nuclear safety and radiation protection (1175 of the Supplements) 7. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Doris Kammerlander and comrades on the establishment of a nuclear-free zone in Europe (1176 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e5072	We now come to points 5 to 7 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. Oral reporting has not been required. I now speak as the first speaker of Mrs Dr Gabriela Moser. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e5104	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear visitors to the galleries! Security has two sides; Atomic safety also has two aspects: The peaceful use of nuclear energy is a high risk factor for safety, as is the military use of nuclear energy. Minister! They have come to know in a letter that in Central Europe it is very likely that it will be a nuclear-free zone. I show you that this nuclear-free zone de facto exists. [[the speaker shows a graphic]] I would point out that this green nuclear-free zone would be reduced to a fine green nuclear-free line by NATO accession. [[Abg. Scheibner: This is a nonsense!]] That is why we insist that you also comply with what you promised in a letter. As you know, you said: The Austrian Federal Government is promoting the reduction and ultimately the global abolition of nuclear weapons. – Please, actually stand up for this! Leave the NATO to the left! They also held the following letter: Although the field of nuclear-free zones is facing resistance internationally, I would like to assure you that Austria will continue to pursue its policy aimed at general nuclear disarmament. Minister! Please don't become verbal! Therefore, please support our request for enlargement and for the guarantee of a nuclear-free Central Europe! - That's on one side. On the other hand, security policy, information policy in the field of nuclear energy, so-called peaceful use of nuclear energy. They all know that just before the borders of Austria in the East, Mochovce, a highly dangerous nuclear power plant, is currently at the tip. It will soon be completed with fuel rods. Although the second walkdown report is not yet available, it is not yet available until 22 February. June will take place, practically everything for a trial operation to start in mid-July. ==References== June and mid-July there is only a very short phase to recoup the report into political strategies, so to speak. That is why it is high time and fire on the roof that we are at last awakening in Austria from nuclear sleep and developing a political action plan against the commissioning of Mochovce and for the shutdown of Bohunice. Minister! You yourself have signed an agreement that provides us with an instrument. However, this instrument is dull because you and Mr Bundeskanzler Klima do not take advantage of it. That is why I would like to ask you, in order to avoid the danger of this nuclear power plant from many Austrians who have signed against it – 1.2 million were, in the context of Mochovce, a massive call for an action plan – I also propose the appropriate one – to link up an action package at international level, to open negotiations with Slovakia together with the powerful countries of France and Germany – with the aim and in the direction of a non-nuclear energy concept for Slovakia – and to call for an agreement on nuclear safety in these negotiations with Slovakia. It was ratified by both Austria and Slovakia. It is located in the Bundesgesetzblatt. This instrument has been published on March 1, 1998, and you do not benefit from it. They make it mold in the drawer! Here you have the opportunity to exert political pressure on Mochovce. For example, Article 11 states that qualified staff must be present. – This is not being observed in Slovakia. Article 14 calls for a systematic safety assessment. - That's not what's going to happen either. Article 18 states that emergencies must be tested prior to commissioning. - That's not being observed. Please complain! Hold a so-called " Extraordinary Meeting" - in Article 23 - to which you invite Slovakia as well as all the signatory partners of the Treaty, and ask what Slovakia has ratified! You have the opportunity to exert pressure. Please don't let this instrument fail!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e5145	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would like to draw your attention to this: You have tabled a motion for a resolution which you have not tabled. [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: I didn't read it, but I presented it in terms of content!]] Excuse me, I can't. You must submit the text of the resolution in the case of motions for resolutions. - I ask you to do this.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e5175	The motion for a resolution reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e5241	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. I am now able to see that the motion for a resolution has been read, submitted and is sufficiently supported in accordance with the rules of procedure. It is included in the negotiations. The next speaker is Mr Dr Höchtl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e5265	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Moser! From one can You are insured: For us, the security of the Austrian population is such a major concern that we do everything internationally and bilaterally in order to ensure this security for the Austrian population. This is a matter that we always take into account! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Today, among the agenda items we are dealing with today, we have an agreement with Ukraine, which should remind us of the fact that we had to experience the biggest nuclear accident we had ever experienced more than twelve years ago, namely, on 26 March. April 1986 at 1:00 23 minutes 40 seconds in the Ukrainian Lenin nuclear power plant Chernobyl actually happened a super GAU. All that has happened since then – whether in the international field or in the bilateral field – serves to ensure that such information deficits that have been shown in the following days never happen again. I say to you that this is only possible in a system in which there is a dictatorship in which a communist or national socialist regime, or in some form dictatorial regime, is totally in control of the information power. I believe that this is system-immanent, and that is why we must fight against all these systems in which such power exists in the information field. This is a fundamental social policy concern. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It wasn't on the 26th. ==References====External links== April that the international community, the world, has been informed of these terrible events, but it has until 28 April. It took April to measure increased radioactivity in Sweden, Norway and Finland. ==References== In April, the TASS published for the first time that there was an accident. ==References== The first official report was made in Germany on this subject after contact with the Soviet authorities. That means: Three days after this terrible accident, the first official information has been published! It's also a bit of a nuisance! I think if it's 26 years old. June 1986, i.e. two months later, the instructions of the Ministry of Health of the USSR were – I quote – to treat all the messages about the Havaria in secret – the end of the quote – then it shows what an impossible system is responsible for such an operation! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! That is why, of course, in 1986, we signed the international agreement and today, in addition to the various other bilateral agreements that have already been concluded – with Ukraine and Slovenia – we have these state agreements before us, which we want to conclude. Since we believe that the international treaties are not sufficient, we want to put these two states, namely Ukraine and Slovenia, into a timely information system, as we have already done with Germany, the Czech Republic, the Slovak Republic, Hungary and Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This is the expression of the constant realistic and ambitious effort of Austria to do everything to protect the Austrian population from all such dangers (a) and (b) to ensure that information is provided as quickly as possible when something happens! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! On the current occasion, we know – two days ago the information reached us – that the Indian government carried out nuclear tests, in which three nuclear explosions were subterraneanly ignited. I believe that India has demonstrated its nuclear capability and, in our view, it is quite consciously opposed to the international consensus against further nuclear attempts and against the spread of nuclear weapons, which has been established in the Non-Proliferation Treaty of 1995 and also in the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty of 1996. As the seat of the CTBTO, Austria – in close cooperation with its partners in the European Union – has long been committed to a comprehensive global nuclear disarmament. I am therefore pleased that on behalf of all five political groups I am able to put forward a motion for a resolution which has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would ask everyone to give their assent to this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e5388	Mr. Dr. Höchtl! I must draw your attention to the following: Under the Constitution, motions for resolutions are merely wishes to be addressed to the Federal Government. It is not possible to send a request to the National Council itself within the framework of a resolution. The National Council has all the other means of expressing its will, which are available to it in the Rules of Procedure, but not the resolution. So if you want to introduce the content as a resolution to the government, you have to consider it and find a new wording. The next speaker is Mr Brix. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e5414	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Thank you very much, Mr President. I'll be right there. Replicate your findings: We will review this joint request of all five parties, including applicants, and we will bring it in as amended form again. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! In 1978, Austria decided not to use nuclear fission and nuclear energy supply. Austria – our country – is also massively opposed to the use, also for peaceful purposes, for energy purposes, these power plants and is opposed to the construction of further nuclear power plants in Central Europe. Of course, it is an objective of ours that has not yet succeeded in enabling other countries to refrain from this kind of use for energy supply. We are therefore pleased that these new measures, namely the information agreement, have at least succeeded in improving something. Ladies and gentlemen! The present agreement regulates the exchange of information between these States at three levels, the exchange of information between Ukraine, Slovenia and Austria on nuclear and other worrying events, on existing nuclear installations under construction and planned, on nuclear programmes of the Contracting States, on the experience gained from the operation of nuclear installations and on the legislation of the Contracting Parties on nuclear safety and radiation protection. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Höchtl mentioned earlier how important it would have been for us to have had this agreement already in 1986. We could have received at least the information and therefore also put in place timely measures to protect the Austrian population. It wouldn't have been a few days. This development is therefore very important for the area of Austrian nuclear energy policy, which represents a very important step towards environmental protection. It would certainly be better – it is also the opinion of the Vice-President, who also said that in the Committee – if we had succeeded in supporting these countries financially, together with the other Member States of the EU, to the extent that it would have enabled them to close these nuclear power plants at all. It must therefore be an objective of Austria and must continue to make every effort to ensure that these nuclear power plants are closed, no matter where they are. [[Congratulations on SPÖ and ÖVP as well as on the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today, if we give our consent to this agreement with Ukraine and together with it put in place these trust building measures, this is a concrete contribution to the future implementation of our concerns. But we must not go from an essential point of view in all the improvements that this Treaty brings us – I have already said this and repeat it –: The objective of Austrian politics, all Austrians, no matter what view they have, must be to strengthen the government in that it must continue to be our task to ensure that scrap tractors such as Mochovce, Bohunice, Dukovany, Chernobyl and so on – to the safety of the environment and our children!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e5466	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e5487	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On the Government Template concerning Austria and Ukraine: This is an agreement that would certainly be desirable would be a little more valuable. What's this about? – It is about cooperation in the field of nuclear safety, about radiation protection, about the establishment of a radiation early warning system. I note that no deadline has been set for the implementation of this early warning system, but it will take place at the earliest in five years. Why not speed up? – Mr Höchtl says that the Federal Government is doing all we can to guarantee the necessary level of security to the Austrian population. I believe that this will not be done with the desired efficiency by the present agreement. Mr Höchtl mentioned Chernobyl as an example. But we must be aware that Mochovce is a threat that is much closer, of course also Krško. It is therefore particularly important for us, above all, that agreement which relates to Mochovce. Let me also say the following: It is natural that we pay for the costs of the construction of the stand lines both in Ukraine and in Slovenia – we count them with 1.7 million schilling – and consequently also for operating costs. I would like to point out that once again, if you call it peanuts, perhaps only because of the costs, this is an example of how untrue nuclear energy is, and therefore it is all the more difficult to fight against the construction of further nuclear power plants or the closure of existing nuclear power plants. I still have a problem with the two bilateral agreements to be concluded, namely with regard to the assessment of accident or accident. We know from various publications that a large number of incidents, which were in fact the evaluation of whether they were an accident or an accident, have occurred without our being informed. I regret this agreement – I cannot conclude – I must say that we are going to agree to this agreement, since a bad agreement is still better than no agreement in this area – that the information on construction, construction, six months before construction is to take place. Why do we not conclude a contract that allows us to obtain information in good time, when it is planned, during the projecting phase? Ladies and gentlemen! I would also point out that the transmission of data, which is certainly desirable, also poses a danger. I take as an example the Krško nuclear power station. It has been checked whether this power plant is located on an Earthquake-hazardous area. I think almost everyone here in this House knows that this is the case. However, Slovenia has provided us with results which clearly show that this area is safe from earthquakes. The fact is, however, that the measuring lines were laid in such a way that where it was critical and where there has also been an accident due to earthquakes or shifts was not measured. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] All of this I give to consider. I think these agreements in this form are half-hearted, inefficient, hesitant, and one could make more of them. However, we will not refuse approval.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e5542	Mrs Gredler. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e5563	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ukraine – a problem we have had for a long time; Mr Höchtl mentioned this in his speech. What has now been added as a problem is that a G7 decision is to be followed by the financing of Ukraine's two new nuclear power plants with EU funds. The problem is: Firstly, that the G7 should not be dictated, which EU resources are used for this purpose; Secondly, that the EU has followed without any real massive resistance; Thirdly, that these funds are too limited to conditions, so that the two reactors that were to be built there would really not have a standard with which we could all be satisfied. What is planned is the construction of two Mochovce type reactors in Ukraine. In view of the economic tests carried out with regard to nuclear energy and other sources of energy, it should be noted that other sources of energy should be preferred to be able to provide energy at a more cost-effective level, and that they could well meet the energy needs of about 7 per cent in Ukraine, I believe. Now, however, the EBRD may still release the financial resources for the construction of nuclear power plants. German Chancellor Klima was on 23 and 24. ==References====External links== Ladies and gentlemen! Has She really hears that he has been working there for our concerns, namely against nuclear energy? I didn't notice. The criticism he expressed was rather mild, and that is not enough to convince a country. I would have expected that an Austrian Chancellor would be much more vehemently committed to other energy, that he would not just say that nuclear energy is problematic. That's not enough! He would have had other possibilities. Fortunately, in Austria, we do not have a split position, but we have truly achieved credibility throughout Europe. There is a problem with the agreement that it only contains a future early warning system. I would like agreements to be concluded in such a way that we know exactly which early warning systems are available, which mechanisms then take place to protect the Austrian population. I believe that in Austria we are not sufficiently informed about nuclear hazards. If you ask me what to do if Mochovce really gets on the net and something happens, I have to tell you: I don't know! I have no idea! Sometime I got a note from the Federal Government – completely yellowed he hangs at home with me – on which stands what supplies one should lay for the disaster, but I don't know any more. What do I do, Minister of State, if there's an incident in Mochovce? You want me to lock up at home? Should I go to the basement? Should I go to you, Mr. Federal Minister, and you tell me then? – It would therefore be good if we were once again to inform the Austrian population accordingly about what is to be done in the event of an incident in a nuclear power plant. But in this context, the entire government is sparse. With regard to the application by the Greens for the creation of a nuclear-free zone: The idea is good, we really need nuclear-free zones in our latitudes so that we can show that we want to refrain from nuclear weapons as a means of defence. The Pugwash movement has ratified a paper containing the abandonment of the first blow, as the first step towards a world without nuclear weapons. I think this is a very positive step taken by the Pugwash movement and would like the Federal Government to be friends with this idea. The Greens' request means that the Foreign Minister should intervene in bilateral negotiations as he is formulated. But I do not think that this is the right way. It is not a question of demarcating our neighbours with regard to their negotiability to NATO, but simply calling for them to refrain from the stationing of nuclear weapons. Poland has already said that it would like to station nuclear weapons. This concern is therefore correct. In the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Foreign Minister said that he could agree to a global request, a request that he should make in the neighbouring countries to refrain from nuclear weapons. But we have to formulate this more globally, and we have tried to do so. My colleague Hans Helmut Moser will submit the request in question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e5636	Mr Jung has now come to speak. Mr deputies, you have a four-minute voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e5657	Mr President. Minister! In principle, the agreement is to be accepted, because everything that increases security in this area is positive. However, there are some concerns in this context, less with regard to the Slovenian agreement than with Ukraine, since, from our point of view, confidence in the effectiveness of the authorities there whose activity is a prerequisite is less. I have not yet been able to know how Ukraine can see whether the collected data on the Ukrainian authorities, as the contract itself requires, go to the Austrian departments or whether they come directly from the sensor, so to speak, on line, to Austria, because that would have been the only really safe way to warn Austria in good time. I still have good eyes on the Chernobyl incident. I was in Sweden at the time, and the first state in Europe to blow the alarm was Sweden, because there the sensors addressed, the Russian side tried to cover up at that time. And I don't have too much confidence that this will work much better in the future. So, should this not yet be the case, we should strive to put such sensors there and negotiate with the Ukrainian government that if something happens, these should alert Austria directly, on-line. As far as this point is concerned. The Minister has previously held back that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was not accused of very serious work by Mr Moser. In connection with this agreement, I can remind you, Mr Minister, but I would remind you that at that time even two textually different agreements were initialled in Slovenian, which was clearly due to a slutting in your home, otherwise this would not have been possible. It is therefore not true that everything works so wonderfully in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I myself have experienced some of this and I am very skeptical of your house. On the last point, Mr Kammerlander's request: The position of the Greens in this matter is clear – we do not join it, since in the vast area of Western and Central Europe today there are no more ground-stationed nuclear weapons, and those in war would perhaps be stationed only in those countries that are just NATO members. They would then serve as protection for these countries. We hope, of course, that this will not happen, but it cannot be demanded by the United States that they take the risk alone in the serious event of a request for the protection of such a country. Interesting in this context is for us alone the attitude of the SPÖ. We have already talked several times today about the fact that there is a evasion of neutrality, which we welcome in itself, but which is not to be done – we have said that – by the population, Mrs Karlsson. I am afraid that you will have to leave the vote for a second time today, Mrs Colleague, because this agreement, to which the SPÖ seems to agree, clearly shows that the path to NATO is not to be taken. We are very pleased that this reasonable insight into SPÖ seems to be slow, but, Mrs Karlsson, you and your friends are not really allowed to claim that you are so opposed to it. Here the path of SPÖ is clearly recognizable.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e5708	Mr Hans Helmut Moser came to speak. You have a speaking time of 16 minutes available. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e5744	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! In my speech, I would like to focus on the Greens' request, namely the request for the creation of a nuclear-free zone in Europe. Ladies and gentlemen! There is a fundamental agreement in this House on the ban on nuclear weapons and on the need for us to do everything we can to achieve global disarmament. Only: The trend of this Green request is basically not correct, for two reasons. First, Mrs Kammerlander, the situation of nuclear armor in Europe was misrepresented. I would just like to point out some international agreements. In 1988, the INF Treaty was concluded, according to which a total disarmament of all land-based nuclear mid-range systems had occurred by May 1991. The START-I Treaty was concluded on the basis of which the strategic arms systems were reduced by one third. There is also the START II Treaty, which has already been ratified by the USA; Russia is now trying to ratify this Treaty. It provides for a reduction of the ballistic weapon systems by two thirds. Since 1997 negotiations have been under way on a START-III agreement between the United States and Russia, so that we find a totally changed situation in Europe in a nuclear way since the end of the Cold War. This is, in principle, a gratifying development. I believe that it is right and that everything must be forced to continue and continue on the path taken. It is therefore all the more regrettable that, for example, India has now lit three hydrogen bombs, and we therefore support all the initiatives of the National Council to come to a sharp condemnation of India. [[Vice chancellor Dr. Schüssel: Only two!]] My group will in any case give its assent to such a motion for a resolution – we are in the process of doing so. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Kammerlander! One reason why we will vote against the motion for a resolution is that it cannot actually be implemented in this way. As part of this motion for a resolution, the Foreign Minister is invited to set up an initiative in the context of NATO enlargement in order to ensure that the practically existing nuclear-free zone is safeguarded in the Eastern European countries and throughout Europe. Ladies and gentlemen! If we want our Foreign Minister to prevent NATO enlargement in a certain form, this can only happen if we are a member of NATO. In other words, under the current conditions, an application or a corresponding request to the Foreign Minister cannot be made. Secondly, What is also stated in the request, namely that the Easter enlargement is based on the principle of willingness to join nuclear weapons as a precondition for NATO accession, is also wrong, because it is clear that there is no conditionality between accession to NATO and the consent to the stationing of nuclear weapons. Such an agreement remains a national decision alone, and therefore this request does not fit into its entirety. It was interesting to follow up the debate in the Committee on Foreign Policy. The Federal Minister and Vice-President of the Council, in principle, voted in favour of a corresponding resolution of the National Council, saying that if it were otherwise formulated and if Austrian foreign policy were addressed, he would very well welcome such a resolution. I would therefore like to make a motion for a resolution tabled by Members Moser, Gredler, partners and read it here. I should like to ask colleagues from Social Democracy and the Austrian People's Party and also from the Liberals to accept this motion for a resolution. It is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that this is a very important initiative that Austrian foreign policy should set in the framework of the European Union's common foreign and security policy. I would ask you to agree to our motion for a resolution so that Mr Foreign Minister and Vice-President can also become active within the framework of the European Union. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e5809	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Moser is in accordance with business rules and is supported and included in the negotiations. Mrs Inge Jäger has now spoken. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e5836	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to read again the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Höchtl: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e5912	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. The application you have now read meets the requirements of Rule 52 B-VG and § 55 of the Rules of Procedure Act. It is therefore a motion for a resolution which is sufficiently supported and which is included in the negotiations. I have no more words to speak about this. The debate is closed. A final word is not required from the reporting side. I shall now vote, and I ask you to take the seats. We must vote separately on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall vote on the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Agreements with the Government of Ukraine on the exchange of information and cooperation in the fields of nuclear safety and radiation protection and installations in 1042 of the Supplements. Whoever is in favour of this request, I would ask him to give a corresponding sign of approval. – This application was adopted unanimously, the approval was granted unanimously. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gabriela Moserund Comrades on the action plan for the non-commissioning of the Mochovce vehicle. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hoechtl, Mr Brix, Mr Mag. Schweitzer, Hans Helmut Moser, Wabl and comrades concerning nuclear tests in India. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a corresponding sign of approval. – This request was adopted unanimously. (E 119.) We are now voting on the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Agreement with the Republic Slovenia on the early exchange of information on radiological hazards and on issues of common interest in the field of nuclear safety and radiation protection in 1087 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of a sign. – The approval is granted unanimously and unanimously. We now come to the vote on the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs to take note of its report 1176 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of this sign. - That's the majority. This request has been accepted by a majority. Ladies and gentlemen! Perhaps we can stop the discussion during the voting process. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution by Mr Hans Helmut Moserund comrades on nuclear weapons stationing in Central and Eastern Europe. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. 8. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government Template (1084 of the Supplements): Amendments to the Annex to the International Convention on the Arrangement of Whales, 1946 (1177 of Supplements) 9. Point Report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on Amendment No 673/A (E) by Mrs Ing. Monika Langthalerund comrades on comprehensive protection for whales (1178 of supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e6068	We now come to points 8 and 9 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. Oral reporting has not been required. We'll start the debate immediately. I give the floor to Mr Dr. Salzl as the first speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e6098	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We are dealing here with the protection of whales under agenda items 8 and 9. Agenda item 9 is a request tabled by Mrs Petrovic, who was then amended by a five-party amendment, which would result in a comprehensive protection for the whales. We will also be happy to give this request our consent. On the other hand, we will not agree with the amendments to the International Convention on the Law of Whales, as this will increase and extend the whaling quota. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Scientists and organizations around the world have been working for years to prevent the eradication of these huge aquatic mammals. The whales were brutally slaughtered for decades. One hunting ground after another was opened and exploited, and in no marine area of the earth as many whales were killed as in the Antarctic waters. Some species of whales are already at risk of extinction, because despite an International Convention on the Protection of Whales, many of these great mammals have been caught and killed from greed and despite the prohibition of fishing. Some countries, such as Norway, even ignore this prohibition of fishing, others like Japan are dealing with it by one, as they call it, "whaling for scientific purposes". Only: If one slaughters hundreds of whales, where the scientific purpose is to be, it is probably not understandable. Ladies and gentlemen! In this scientific whaling, as it is so beautiful, last year, hit by Japanese harpoons, 517 dwarf whales suffered their lives. Russia has shot down 43 gray whales, the USA 44 Greenland whales, Norway 504 dwarf whales, Denmark and Greenland 176 dwarf whales, 19 fin whales and the like. Overall, despite the prohibition of fishing, the number of caught, killed, slaughtered animals has increased from 855 to 1 304 in recent years. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is thus not yet guaranteed the future of these animals. It is more than worrying that in recent years, despite under-protection, the number of big mammals killed has increased enormously. And now, with a change in the annex to this International Convention, this quota is to be extended. Although the changes are justified by the needs of the indigenous people of Greenland, the Russian Federation and the United States, those who know how the killing rate has been handled and increased in recent years must be afraid of the future of these whales, afraid of the future of these big mammals. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It's a terrible thing to fear here. We liberals do not want to play helpers and will therefore not agree to an increase in this quota.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e6143	Next speaker is Mrs Inge Jäger. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e6168	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we are adopting the amendments to the International Convention on the Law of Whales, and there is also a second motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Langthaler. I am very glad that this has become a five-party proposal which includes the maintenance of the whaling moratorium. Since Austria's accession to the International Whale Commission, four annual meetings have taken place and revisions of the Treaty have led to a strengthening of the Convention and thus to an improvement in the protection of whales. The UN has declared 1998 the "Year of the Seas", but we simply have to realize that the exploitation and destruction of the world seas is still going on invariably. Mr Salzl has already mentioned this: There has been a ban on commercial whaling since 1986, but unfortunately this ban is constantly being suspended by Japan and, above all, by Norway. In view of the dramatic situation of whales, species protection interests must take precedence over commercial interests in our best interests. Grand whales such as the blue whale and the Greenland whale are threatened by extinction. And that is why I can only support and strengthen the demand of Greenpeace for the establishment of a global whaling area, because only if we explain the world's seas as a whale protected area can these sensitive and intelligent marine mammals survive in the long term. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As reports from the WWF show, the situation of the dwarf whales is dramatic because it is being hunted under the cover of science for commercial purposes. Research by the University of Oakland also shows that there is still meat from hump, fin and minn whales, i.e. of endangered whale species, to be bought on Japanese and Korean markets. We must take seriously the accusation by the environmental organizations that the International Wealth Commission cannot exercise control of whaling as it would be necessary. In particular, Austria has shown at the last conferences that, although it is a small country, it can be very critical, and I would like to thank all responsible. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I now come to the amendment of the whaling quotas, which Mr Salzl has already mentioned. This is about the permitted killing of Greenland, gray and dwarf whales for the indigenous people of Greenland and for parts of the Russian Federation and also for inuits of the United States and Makah Indians, and I would like to point out the following: On the one hand, it is not clear that indigenous peoples are being punished for being threatened by the great fishing fleets of the industrialized countries in their existence. And, of course, we must see that the very foundations of life of all these peoples have been drastically reduced in recent years. On the other hand, it is also necessary to recognise that there are no legally binding criteria for so-called native whaling, i.e. for the aboriginal winging, to date. And there is also no homogenous appearance of indigenous representatives. That is to say, there is also a discussion among indigenous peoples about the extent to which support is given. There are different views in this regard. One of them says: We want to catch the whales, the others say: Perhaps we can better get out of it, for example, by the so-called whale watching, that is, whale watching! Perhaps through strictly regulated eco-tourism, there are better opportunities for merit for indigenous peoples. I would like to conclude. I believe that only those indigenous peoples who have been proven to have done traditional whaling would be the most important call that Austria should make at the forthcoming conference – it will take place in Oman. It turns out again and again that – including the influence of the Japanese – efforts are being made to give the indigenous money – in the east of Canada, for example – so that they apply for quota catches, but these whales are then used commercially. Secondly, I believe that the redevelopment of quotas is important. I would like to see the quotas, which are in themselves good, continue to exist, but that they should be monitored and that there should be better control over them, so that whaling is not exploited for commercial interests. And what Mr Salzl has already mentioned: It is also a problem to say: We catch the whales for scientific purposes, and then 400 whales are caught by the Japanese, and this whale meat is finally found on local markets. It would also be necessary to prohibit trade in whale meat. Although there is a regulation under the Convention on the Protection of Species, it is not sufficient for the control of the goods entering the markets. We also need a regulation of scientific whaling. I think that we should be much more critical about the ideas. Finally, I believe that even now the protection of whales is not actually secured, i.e. it is still not clear whether the whales in the world seas can actually retain their habitat, whether the whales are still threatened in their existence. I very much hope that an important contribution will be made at the Oman Conference to the protection of whales.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e6244	Mrs Gredler has just spoken. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e6265	Thank you very much, Mr President. – Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! As the essential points have already been mentioned by my previous speakers, I would just like to draw attention to one point: If one leaves the indigenous peoples to define the amount of animals they need in order to comply with their traditions or to maintain their traditional cuisine, then there is a risk of increasing the quota, which certainly does not correspond to the intentions of Austria. We are not directly affected by this problem, on the other hand, I must, of course, respect the concerns of the indigenous peoples, but say that we should be careful not to achieve the opposite of what we actually want to achieve by today's decision, namely that the number of animals that may be hunted will be increased in order not only to support the traditional way of life, but also, as I have my commercial wishes from some countries. That would be too bad. One last word: The premise of scientificity with regard to the number of animals killed is in no relation. Scientific work can be carried out with considerably fewer animals, especially in order to be able to make experiments, it is not always necessary to kill the animal. Only: What is happening now is not in line with the intentions of this Parliament, namely simply proposing interests of scientists in order to increase the quota. – I wanted to limit my remarks to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e6301	It still has Mrs. Ing. Langthaler. Madam President, I am sorry to say that this speech cannot be made because the time limit for the green club has already been fully exhausted due to the time-limit decided on. There is no further word for this. I therefore conclude the debate. A final word was not requested by the rapporteur. We shall therefore proceed to the vote, which will be carried out separately on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall first vote on the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs to give approval to the conclusion of the State Treaty in 1084 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this to give a corresponding sign. - That's the majority. The authorisation shall be granted by a majority. I now turn to the request made by the Committee on Foreign Policy, according to which the present State Treaty, within the meaning of Article 50(1) of the Treaty, refers. 2 Federal Constitutional Act by the adoption of laws to be complied with. Whoever is in favour of this request, I ask him for a sign of approval. - That's the majority. This request has been accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report 1178. Whoever is in favour of this resolution, I would ask for a sign of approval. The resolution was adopted unanimously. (E 120.) 10. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government Template (1085 of the Supplements): Supplementary Agreements to be concluded in Paris on 2 July. General Agreement on the Privileges and Immunities of the Council of Europe signed between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Council of Europe on the European Centre for Living Languages and Exchange of Letters (1179 of Supplements) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government Template (1098 of the Supplements): 6. Protocol to the General Agreement on the Privileges and Immunities of the Council of Europe (1180 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e6392	We now come to points 10 and 11 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. Oral reporting has not been desired. We are beginning the debate with Mr Scheibner's speech. Mr deputies, you have a four-minute voluntary time limit. Total time left for your club: 6 minutes. I'll set you up for four minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e6419	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! These two government documents are about the extent to which different international institutions are to be granted, and since special privileges and immunities are to be granted in the Council of Europe. There is already such a scheme. It is now important that judges at the European Court of Human Rights and also staff at the European Centre for Living Languages receive extended immunities and privileges. Ladies and gentlemen! I would remind you of yesterday's debate on the immunity of Members, where my group felt that immunities and privileges should be granted only in the extent necessary for the exercise of the mandate and function. Everything that goes beyond that is not justified and to question it again and again in an open society. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The same should also apply to privileges and immunities in the international field, especially in the context of an ever-increasing European integration, a stronger opening up of the national states to the international community. This development is increasingly present in Europe in particular. Against this background, of course, we understand that judges at the European Court of Human Rights should also be given the privileges and immunities that enable them to exercise their functions as best as possible. What is not to be seen is the fact that family members should also benefit from these immunities and privileges. This would also not be in line with a parallel rule in Austrian law for our judges. In this respect, I believe that this government proposal or these regulations go too far. It is also on the question of the staff at the European Centre for Living Languages. It should also, of course, be the case that employees engaged in activities for European institutions abroad should, as far as possible, be able to comply with this activity as unimpeded as possible. I cannot explain why very far-reaching privileges are also granted, which are similar in the case of diplomatic status. I do not see why there should be a tax exemption for the car tax, why there should be a tax exemption for the salaries paid there and why there should be, for example, exceptions to social security laws or retroactive reimbursement of VAT. Again: Against the background of the increasing integration of Europe and the opening up of the national states within Europe – it is not about the need to protect diplomats or other employees of European institutions, because they have to carry out their activities in any dubious dictatorships, but about Western democracies – we consider it to be such far-reaching immunities and privileges. In our opinion, these regulations are going in the wrong direction. That is why we cannot accept these two government proposals.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e6471	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Schwimmer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e6492	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker, Mr Scheibner, overlooked in his criticism that the so-called privileges and immunities are based on normal diplomatic uses. These are people who are active in the service of international organisations across Europe, so they are quite comparable to diplomats who work bilaterally. Mr Scheibner also meant that he did not understand why this should apply, for example, to the judges, to their family members. To this end, we must say: Unfortunately, human rights standards are still not equal or equivalent in all European countries, including the Member States of the Council of Europe. The European Court of Human Rights is intended to ensure the enforcement of human rights in all the Member States of the Council of Europe, and it is also important that it is not possible to exert pressure on a judge through arbitrary measures against family members. If there is something that warrants an official or judicial persecution, it is also, of course, provided for in this procedure that there is a supply of quartz to enable the persecution to happen. This is also regulated in the Treaty, but this has not been mentioned by Mr Scheibner. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker.]] We can, of course, discuss tax freedom. But don't overlook one: The Council of Europe, like all other international organizations, must pay its staff according to a scheme, no matter in which country the employees work. Therefore, consideration should be given to the different rates of taxation. The international organizations are therefore acting in such a way that they take into account the freedom of taxation in determining the salaries from the outset, and the staff are then given the same net remunerations, no matter which country they are sent to. In fact, these are not privileges, but they are the production of equality and equality. Ladies and gentlemen! This debate gives me the opportunity to say something basic, especially since the date is favourable. Almost 50 years ago, a few days more than 50 years ago, the European Congress took place in The Hague, in which several pan-European initiatives and groups – Winston Churchill played a leading role at this Congress – called for Europe to unite European democracies into a common organisation, and the creation of a human rights instrument, a Court of Justice in which the citizens of the Member States can find direct law, supranational at European level. In 1948 – from 7th to 10th The European Congress took place in The Hague in May 1948 – it was a vision, today it is a matter of course, today it has become a reality. And if, from November onwards, the European Court of Human Rights will act with the magistrate judges, which was the reason why this agreement should now be ratified, that is really the full fulfillment of the 1948 vision, the vision of the Europe Congress in The Hague. A full territory of the democratic security of human rights has thus been created, after Russia has now also ratified and Russia will therefore also fall under the jurisdiction of the European Court of Human Rights. This Court of Justice will be responsible for all 40 Member States of the Council of Europe. In 1948, no one really dared to dream that this would happen one day, and some of those who participated in the 1948 European Congress. But the Council of Europe did not rest on its Merites after the founding of 1949, but continued to develop. I would like to point out the results of the second Council of Europe summit, which took place in Strasbourg last autumn, as a continuation of the first Council of Europe summit, which took place in Vienna, where a very significant action plan was adopted. I mean, "50 years of Europe Congress in The Hague" is a good reason to say what the Council of Europe will do in the future. For reasons of time, I would just like to list the projects of the Council of Europe: Practically implemented in the action plan because installed in autumn, the Standing Court of Human Rights is. A European High Commissioner for Human Rights will, in addition to the activities of the Court of Justice, which is, as it were, fully intelligible to determine the violations, from the outset pay attention to respect for human rights. The Council of Europe will play an even greater role in meeting the commitments made by the Member States. The Council of Europe is responding to new problems, for example by prohibiting cloning by means of an additional protocol to the Biomedical Convention. The Council of Europe adopts the fight against racism, xenophobia, anti-Semitism and intolerance. The Council of Europe carries out another, very important task, which also contributes to our security, namely to the protection of national minorities throughout Europe. Another activity of the Council of Europe is the development of new social cohesion strategies. Unfortunately, the promotion and protection of children is one of the new tasks of the Council of Europe as well as the fight against terrorism, corruption, organised crime and drug trafficking. The Council of Europe also carries out the task of education on democratic citizenship and the upgrading of the European heritage. All this is to be seen in the context of the Council of Europe's 50th anniversary. Next year's birthday is planning its own structural reform. But it will also be necessary to develop a strategy of cooperation between the European institutions in order to avoid duplication on the one hand and to benefit more effectively from synergies on the other. A specific concern in this context, Mr Vice-Chancellor and Foreign Minister, and also in the context of the European Court of Human Rights, is that the European Union will also be able to join this comprehensive European Convention on Human Rights, in order to submit to the statements of the Court of Human Rights. I believe that the Council of Europe has proved itself in the 49 years of its existence – 50 years have passed since the Hague European Conference. If we ratify these two protocols today, this is a further confirmation.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e6559	Mrs Konrad is now speaking. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e6581	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! From a social democratic point of view, we welcome the Additional Agreement on the General Agreement on the Privileges and Immunities of the Council of Europe concerning the European Centre for Living Languages in Graz. This centre was established almost exactly three years ago as the Council of Europe. In May 1995, it was opened, and therefore it is necessary and proper to regulate the language centre's privilege and immunity status accordingly. For many years, many international organizations have established themselves in Austria because they can work with us in a targeted and good way, because they find good conditions and a supportive infrastructure, but not least because their work is appreciated by the population. This also applies to the European Centre for Living Languages in Graz, which is particularly designed to support and support the development of the countries of Central and Eastern Europe. This European Centre cooperates with Austrian scientists, with teachers in Austrian educational institutions, and the status of cooperation partners must be regulated in an analogous way to other international organisations and institutions. The granting of the special rights and freedoms provided for primarily serves to ensure the independence of the organisation. There are no privileges in the sense of unjustified privileges, but these special arrangements comply with the relevant provisions, as they are usually concluded between international organisations and their host country. In times of economic globalisation, I welcome this additional agreement as a measure to promote the globalisation of science, communication and communication requirements. This Additional Agreement facilitates the effective work of the European Centre and is also an expression of the recognition of the work to be done or done.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e6631	There is now a speech by Mrs Gredler. Time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e6652	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The criticisms made by the speaker of the Freedom Party must be taken into account. On the one hand, it is certainly no longer necessary for tax privileges or VAT-reimbursement privileges to be simply rewritten without once an international theme. It would be really exciting to consider which immunities and privileges are necessary for which internationally active groups and where you could actually achieve a recast internationally. I can already see that it is not possible for Austria to change that alone. This would mean that all international organisations will immediately deduct. Bonn has many empty buildings, many empty houses and would be very happy to be able to accommodate everyone there. So that's not the right way. The way should be for us to try to discuss this issue internationally or to come up with new regulations, because in terms of taxation and VAT reimbursement, I do not necessarily see the existing system. However, as far as access to the labour market is concerned, for example, there is the rule that families in which two people work may also have the possibility of not being geographically separated, but both working in one place. I see why these people should be helped to integrate into a foreign country or to find a job there. I do not think this is objectionable if one tries to support partners. I would not put this as a criticism point. But the criticism itself is right in that it is aimed at – as was the case with the CTBTO agreement a few months ago – trying to move internationally now and say where there should be a preference and where not. But to continue writing this without ever questioning it is, I believe, also the wrong way. But this time we will follow and support these two proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e6689	There is no more word message for this. The debate is closed. A final word has not been desired by the rapporteur. We shall therefore proceed to the vote; we shall vote on each of the Committee's proposals separately. First of all, we are voting on the request of the Committee on Foreign Policy, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Additional Agreement on the General Agreement on the Privileges and Immunities of the Council of Europe concerning the European Centre for Living Languages and Exchange of Letters in 1085 of the Supplements I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for the approval to give an appropriate sign. - That's a majority. The majority of the authorisation was granted. We shall now vote on the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty: 6. Protocol to the General Agreement on the Privileges and Immunities of the Council of Europe to be approved in 1098 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this approval to be a sign. - That's the majority. The majority of the authorisation was granted. 12. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government Template (1088 of the Supplements): Convention on the Prohibition of the Use, Storage, Production and Transfer of Antipersonnel Mines and on Their Destruction and Declaration of the Republic of Austria (1181 of the Supplements) 13. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government template (1107 of the Supplements): Protocol on the Prohibition or Restriction of the Use of Mines, Explosives and Other Devices in the Convention on the Prohibition or Restriction of the Use of Mines, Explosives and Other Devices. (Protocol II as amended on 3 May 1996) The Agreement of 10 May 1996 was amended on 10 May 1996. October 1980 on the prohibition or restriction of the use of certain conventional weapons, which may cause excessive sufferings or affect them indiscriminately, as well as declarations; Protocol of 13. October 1995 on blinding laser weapons (Protocol IV) to the Convention of 10 October 1995. October 1980 on the prohibition or restriction of the use of certain conventional weapons, which may cause excessive suffering or effect without distinction, as well as on the explanation (1182 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e6769	We now come to items 12 and 13 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are starting the debate with a speech by Mr Spindelegger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e6796	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, around 110 million anti-personnel mines are being moved around the world – mines brought to an explosion by a human being through the presence, through the proximity, and killed, mutilated or severely injured by the present. Every year, the 2 million such mines are added. They are transferred to war zones, to crisis areas, and 20,000 people a year lose their lives in this way, or are so mutilated by the injuries, or otherwise affected, that they cannot continue their normal life, which they were used to until then. These are the facts which make a really cold face over the back and which, I believe, also give a mandate to anyone who has to take note of these facts: the task of working in this regard. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] I am pleased that today, with this agreement, we can also decide and welcome an Austrian initiative on humanity, which is trying to keep this suffering to a certain extent for the coming future, to reduce it and to contribute to the fact that such mines will no longer be moved in the future. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] This Convention provides, in very concrete terms, that the use, storage, production and transfer of such anti-personnel mines will be prohibited in the future; secondly, that the existing stocks of mines will be destroyed within four years of the entry into force of this Convention; thirdly, that the anti-personnel mines, which are still moving in many areas of the world, will be cleared within ten years of the entry into force of this Convention; and fourthly, that they also cooperate internationally in this mine clearance. This is quite a concrete step forward also towards an outrage of these antipersonnel mines, and it is an essential contribution that Austria has made to this! I would like to thank all the political groups in the House on behalf of the EIA, who have contributed to the very rapid treatment of this agreement. I also hope - and I would like to stress this from this point of view - that the Members of the Liberal Party will rethink their rejection in committee once more - they have been reported pro, and I see this as a positive sign - and that is why today in plenary will agree to it. [[Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann: You're registered per person!]] If that is the case, I am looking forward to it because I believe that a uniform procedure of our House is very valuable in this direction. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] But I would also like to thank the Federal Ministry for Foreign Affairs. There has been a man there who has formulated this draft contract within a very short time, and I would also like to mention it here in particular: It was envoy Dr. Thomas Hajnoczi, who is responsible for the text, and I would like to congratulate him on this, because this was really a matter that Austria has brought to a great deal of recognition throughout the world! I would like to thank Mr Hajnoczi from this point of view. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Considering how this Convention on the Prohibition of Antipersonnel Mines has been implemented within a shortest period of time – for an international agreement – this is also quite a praise for the Foreign Minister and for the whole of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It was not until the end of 1996 that Austria was commissioned to create a draft. This draft was completed within a few weeks. Already in February 1997, an expert meeting took place in Vienna, a few months later a conference in Brussels, a few months later in Oslo, and finally at the end of last year, on 3rd and 4th. It was signed by 122 states in Ottawa on 1 December 1997. – This is not only a large number of supporters, but it is also a time course that is really record suspect. I would like to congratulate Mr Schüssel, who has personally put a lot of pressure on him in his discussions, so that many states sign, and who is also personally responsible for this agreement with his handwriting. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and by Dr. Fuhrmann and Dr. Karlsson.]] And how's it going, ladies and gentlemen? . With this agreement, the legal framework has been created, but we have heard from the Federal Minister's Committee that Austria will also become active. The Austrian Federal Army will train troops responsible for mine clearance. The Foreign Minister and the Minister for Youth also organised funds with the Minister for Finance and the Minister for Youth so that the mine clearance can proceed in order to help victims. It is therefore really an initiative which will continue to make a valuable contribution, not by ratification of the Convention, but by which Austria will continue to make a valuable contribution in the future. I would therefore like to say that for my group: This is a model example of good Austrian foreign policy, and I would like it to continue in this way in many areas. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e6864	Mrs Dr Karlsson is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e6885	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! I cannot add anything to the words of my previous speaker regarding the content of these agreements, and I join them in a hundred percent. But I would like to make three points even more precise. A point that is sometimes brought – even by uninformed circles, but yet – is the question of what sense such agreements would have at all, because the Gauners do not stick to it anyway. That would be like saying: Let's not make laws, because the Gauners don't stick to it anyway! – At international level, these agreements are the equivalent of these laws, and it is very likely that they will have immense impact. Today, under another item on the agenda, we have put ourselves in a sharper position in the choir of the international community condemning the breach of the nuclear test-stopping agreement. In this context, I would like to point out that 40 years ago, nuclear weapons were not a loathsome weapon, but rather that, so to speak, they worked or thought about the development of their own nuclear bombs. First, international pressure – it was very many church organizations, many women's organizations that organized this protest outside of the parliaments – has led to concern, has led to the agreements and has led us to say quite clearly today: if not! The same has happened with the Antipersonnel Mining Agreements, where the way was still another: that not great powers were expected, but that the small states said: No more with us; we don't want these weapons anymore! Second point: We in Austria have not only committed ourselves – as has already been done – to foreign politics, but also to our house within. In this context, I would also like to point out that, unfortunately, in this performance – perhaps it was only time - no one was present by the Members except me. It has organized its own event to which the companies have invited to show that anti-personnel mines are no longer produced in Austria, that – quite the contrary! – that what is produced cannot involuntarily be triggered here. This demonstration was organized by the Federal Government, supported by the German army, and I hope that this role of Austria, in terms of mine clearance and specialistism in delaboration, i.e. waste disposal, will continue to be pursued. Third point: Laser weapons. In this regard, we are ahead of both domestic and international level – even before these weapons have become mass weapons! – said: No, don't even think about not even developing! We reject these weapons from the beginning! Even there, as I said, will follow the argument again, the Gauners did not stick to it. But that's not what it's all about. There must be laws, there must be remorse. If, with today's agreement to these agreements, we can create a little more peace in the world and reduce human suffering, then we should be very pleased. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e6934	Mr Jung is speaking on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. Still speaking time of your club: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e6955	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The time is short, therefore very short: We agree with both proposals, not least because they do not actually have a real impact on the Austrian federal army, because the law which Mrs Karlsson has just praised here has no legal effect. It is not a question of whether the "gauners" do not accept it, but it is a matter of not accepting the important states essentially. The consequence of the law will be the following: We accept it, it is just a call to the others – for us the situation is clear anyway – these will produce – 2 million a year, as we have heard – and we have to pay for the space under this law. This is the only fact that has a real impact on Austria. Another fact concerns our federal government: We donate abroad – that is good for the room – but do nothing for our federal army, because we are not necessarily financially at the end. As mine space equipment of high quality per hunter battalion, we have such a spacecraft – and send our people abroad! We don't have good mines search protection equipment for our people, but abroad we're gonna be big on the table! – That is what I am throwing before this government, and that is double-beddedness – even if Mr Amon shakes his head again. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In this context, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I'm curious if the greens will agree. In any case, that would be an application they could make. Finally – because Mr Amon is still shaking his wise head –: The double density of the ÖVP in this context is quite incredible. If I had more hair on my head, I would say, hairthrowing, Mr. Colleague. For your minister has not asked us for too long before this first mine agreement has been agreed, and he has asked us to support it. Just a week earlier, he thought it out differently and said he didn't hold it out any more. – That’s what double-beddedness is! That is what Mr Maitz criticised here earlier, but that is exactly the attitude of the ÖVP! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Mr Maitz himself asked me out there: Please don't talk in plenary about the direct-splitting charges, because these are actually shooter mines, and that's what the German army needs! – That’s what it looks like, ladies and gentlemen, with the “honesty” in your ÖVP! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is double-bedded purest water, and this is really only found in the ÖVP in this pronounced form!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e7042	Mr Moser has also been mentioned on the floor. Still speaking time of your club: 6 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e7064	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am very glad that the National Council is now adopting this agreement and that we are also doing the necessary ratification. The whole thing, of course, has a advertising drop in that, unfortunately, those countries that produce these anti-personnel mines have not yet joined this agreement, above all the United States, Russia, but also China, for example. I should therefore like to ask the Foreign Minister and Vice-President that this question, as we discussed earlier in the field of preventing nuclear weapons from being stationed in Europe, be part of it, a very important part of Austrian foreign policy within the framework of the European Union. We have, as you can remember, a very emotional debate about the law a year ago led to the prohibition of anti-personnel mines. I am very proud that this ban has come about. This has given us an international reputation. We have also moved a lot internationally. In addition to the fact that this law, which we decided at the time, was the actual "turbo" for Ottawa, other states have also taken the lead in making this law nationally. I should like to remind you - I was still a member of the Austrian delegation to the Council of Europe at the time - that the Council of Europe has also adopted this question. I am also very proud that, in the meantime, the Austrian Federal Government has already ridded the existing antipersonnel mines, thereby contributing to the implementation of this law and also to the implementation of those contractual provisions which we will decide today. Ladies and gentlemen! I said earlier that this law we passed about a year ago was the "Turbo" for Ottawa. I would therefore not like to miss out on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which I have previously criticized, because I believe that in the way in which documents are presented to Parliament, sometimes it is sloppy to express praise. Honor who deserves honor. Our diplomats have worked very exemplaryly, and this is to be recognized and presented in this House. I think it is very favourable, very positive, that 40 million Schillings will be made available for mine clearance by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We will, of course, also agree with the Liberals' motion for a resolution that the Austrian Federal Army, when it comes to foreign intervention, will be equipped accordingly. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to say something about the use of anti-personnel mines. We have already discussed this very intensively and the question has been discussed again and again in the debate in the Committee on Foreign Policy: Do we need such a thing? Does it make sense? Is it necessary? The fact is: The antipersonnel mines are an inhumane, a cruel weapon. They are – and this is especially what characterises them – a secret weapon, because they cannot really be localized because they cannot really depend on it – I also say this as an officer and commander of soldiers that I had to lead for years and for which I was responsible – and this weapon is also not really useful in military terms, because it is ultimately not decisive in war. I took with me, because Austrian Members were also an election observer in Bosnia-Herzegovina, the mine plan that we received at the time. [[The speaker keeps a plan up-to-date.]] Here you have recorded the situation of the millions of mines moved to Bosnia-Herzegovina. The situation of these mine fields shows the current course of the defenses. Today, no soldiers are used there, today the war is over, but what is still present in Bosnia-Herzegovina are the mines. Today these mines are still endangering people, acting against civilians and children who are innocent. That is why this weapon is so loathsome, which is why a use of this weapon means a clear violation of international war law, and we must therefore also insist on a total ban on this weapon system. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e7133	The request previously made by Mr Jung has been properly submitted, duly supported and is under negotiation. Mr President, I should like to make a point of order. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e7160	Mr President. Federal Minister! I am correct, Mr Jung, who has claimed that I would have asked him not to speak here about antipersonnel mines or split dates, because that is what the German army needs. It is true that I have not had a personal discussion with Mr Jung for many weeks now, and it is also true that, of course, the German army does not have or will not have anti-personnel mines and will not need them in the future. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: Maybe he was dressed!]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e7212	Mrs Mag. Mag. has now been mentioned in the debate. Kammerlander. I would like to give the floor to you, Madam Member, but the speaking time of your club is already zero. I would ask you to accept this limit on speaking time. Thank you. The next speech is by Mr Amon. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes – please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e7261	Mr President. Mr Vice-Chancellor and Foreign Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If we are debating today the ratification of this international agreement on the prohibition and therefore the deplorability of anti-personnel mines, I am sure that I would like to make this very conscious at the beginning of my remarks, thanks to our Foreign Minister, for we know how difficult it would be to carry out such a project if the competent member of the government did not give corresponding support, a corresponding support. For this, Mr Vice-Chancellor, I would like to thank you very much for the fact that, Mr Moser has referred to it, Austria has taken an incredible pioneering role on this issue! Clearly – that is indeed interesting – the liberals have slowly understood this, too, because if you look at the speeches in the Minutes on the occasion of the debate on our anti-personnel law of the anti-personnel mines, you find the honourable Member Jung to be a counter-responsor. You did not support this prohibition law back then, but since it has become a successful thing, you are now obviously turning. We are pleased that we have been able to convince you. I am pleased, Mr Jung, that our arguments in the committee have convinced you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] While we are debating here, at least two people will return to anti-personnel mines, mutilated, seriously injured, possibly even killed. Of ten victims killed by anti-personnel mines, nine are civilians, not military, and four are children. It must be borne in mind that 120 million anti-personnel mines are currently being moved and that, if no new ones were to be added – but at present significantly more to it than can be cleared – 33 years were needed to clear these mines. This mine is a defensive weapon, a weapon which, in part, has been used for self-defense or rather for supposed self-defense, and therefore I repeat what I have already told you, Mr Jung, in committee: Not rarely do the children of those soldiers find an antipersonnel mine that these soldiers themselves have moved. That is the real tragedy in this context. However, I would also like to thank those who, in the run-up to the debate on the prohibition law which we have decided here in Austria, have set up activities, as well as those who have now carried out activities in the course of the negotiations on the international agreement. It was very strong the Red Cross that committed itself to it, it was very strong the International Campaign for the Exploration and Banning of Antipersonnel Mines, and it is probably not a coincidence that it was the "International Campaign to Ban Landmines" that received the Nobel Peace Prize. At the invitation of our Foreign Minister, the representative and spokesperson of this International Campaign was only here in Austria last week, expressly emphasizing and highlighting the pioneering role of Austria in this issue. I am very grateful to the responsible officials of the Foreign Office. One of them has already been thanked, but I would also like to thank Mr. Ambassador honestly – now Ambassador to Iran – who has been very helpful in preparing for this law. Since NATO has been presented here very often as a terror, I should like to conclude by mentioning that, apart from two NATO countries, all the other NATO Member States have supported or ratified this international anti-personnel act. I am grateful, therefore, to all those who have been involved in this issue. I think this is a weapon that is banned, because it is – like the laser weapons that have been addressed – a cowardly weapon, a weapon that is not directed by a soldier against the other – which, of course, is also to be condemned – but rather a weapon that is directed against civilians, it is a weapon that is directed against children. It is therefore good that we have banned this weapon in this country and that we are playing a pioneering role in the international field in the ban on these weapons. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e7327	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Fuhrmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e7348	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased that, after yesterday's day of this item on the agenda today, it can be decided unanimously, and I believe that, after this very unsavory parliamentary day, today's decision, including those who have not yet been able to overcome the Committee, will give this proposal the approval that will be given today in the plenary session, by this National Council, a positive signal from this Parliament. I do not think that it is a question of giving the Members of the FPÖ, whom I have referred to in the Committee and who have asked them to consider until the plenary session – as much as they should be critically told them what to say – that they have decided, even if they are not a hundred percent convinced, to allow this signal to go out into the world unanimously from this House, because, ladies and gentlemen, the decision of the Austrian National Council to ratify this international convention will be taken very closely, and because, as the previous speakers have said, Austria has played a very crucial, very intense, very pressing role in this question. As Mr Höchtl just looked in my direction: He will certainly remember – I will not take this away from you, because I assume that you have also spoken about it – which battles we have carried out at the interparliamentary conferences in the framework of the Interparliamentary Union, but which we have finally managed to carry out a corresponding resolution. Ladies and gentlemen! I should also like to draw your attention to the fact that, within the framework of the Committee on Refugees of the Council of Europe, we have worked very intensively on this question, that we have organised seminars together with the International Red Cross, in which I personally have learned much as a participant with great distress and great horror. There have been talk about the affected, even though not all immediately, but about video, such as a small Thai boy with nine or ten years of age, who has been torn down a foot, who said: We have already known that there are probably these mines there, but one of us – and this is my job in the family – had to take the Yaks out to eat because otherwise they would starve us. I had to do it, so it had to happen to me, and I have to live with it! Since, ladies and gentlemen, you're cold over your back. I believe that it is pointless to have a principle debate on arms, arms use, war disputes in this House. We are all against war, we are all against the fact that people shoot at each other, that people are plotting each other – unfortunately, we cannot ban it as Austrians, that it is still happening in the world. However, if we manage to take part in the fact that a weapon we know that nine out of ten victims are being crushed, either to death or to mutilation, are not uniform, are not soldiers, are civilians, and that statistically of these ten civilians who are being crushed are six children again, then, ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to express my deep joy and deep satisfaction at the fact that we can take this ratification decision unanimously. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! It has also been addressed the question of space, the question of financial, logistical or human assistance in the area of space in these countries. And since I think that we Austrian representatives of the people can also be very proud of the fact that we are taking part in it, because it is unfortunately God's fact that more mines are still being moved than can be cleared. And if it is already true that the soldiers of the Austrian Federal Army – and I have learned this too at this Council of Europe seminar – are recognized specialists in the world, are recognized specialists and we are able to register our soldiers with pleasure in this respect worldwide, then, ladies and gentlemen, I do not only think it is absolutely right and desirable for humanitarian reasons to invest in it, but we can also note that this will continue to increase the international reputation of our soldiers and thus our federal army and in the further episode of our Republic of Austria. Thank you very much for today's decision-making.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e7399	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. The remaining speaking time of the liberal club is 1 minute. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e7421	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I can fully agree with my previous speaker. I would also like to thank our club for its recognition and hope, Mr Fuhrmann, that your group will also vote in favour of our motion for a resolution. Because this motion for a resolution is intended to enable the German army to do even better work precisely in this area of mine removal by re-purchasing – because at the moment the device is not available. Mr Amon, your cynical remark is completely wrong here. We did not need your teachings for approval, but I say it again: [[Abg. Amon: Did you agree to the committee?]] Our then criticism of the national regime was due to the fact that the German army and also your group have asked us that we in general may prevent the development of so-called intelligent mines. – You have then suddenly changed your opinion; we have remained consistent. But now it's about something else: It is now a question of ensuring consistently abroad with one voice that these mines can be used in a uniform manner, such as China, such as the USA, against those countries that have not joined these conventions. This is my request and also my request, Mr Foreign Minister: Take these unanimous decisions by the National Council on the occasion of finally representing these interests strongly and offensively in the area of your foreign policy contacts!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e7447	The final sentence, please, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e7463	I am already at the end of the sentence. [[Vice chancellor Dr. Schüssel: I do that all the time!]] So far, we have not heard much, Mr. Foreign Minister. Make sure that at last a total of mines can take place!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e7501	Mr Dr Höchtl was also mentioned on the floor. Voluntary time limit: 3 minutes; Rest of the time of your club: 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e7523	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We have heard in this debate that much more new mines are being relocated each year than are cleared: At 20 newly installed mines, only one is cleared. This means that a "gross camp" of death, injury and mutilation will be built in major regions of the world. I am also delighted that we have been able to achieve unanimity in this House after a longer discussion process. I believe that this is a very acceptable, strong voice of common human feeling, a voice that really strengthens the role of Austria in the humanitarian field, since not only does the government in the person of the Foreign Minister and his excellent staff raise this voice, but all the political groups, every colleague and every colleague in this House do so. This is a truly uplifting situation and mood. This means that many have the chance of not being killed, not mutilated and not injured. We must, however, make a great effort – and again all the Members and not only the Foreign Ministry have been asked to do so – that as many states as possible should be able to implement this ratification soon. This agreement will not enter into force until it has ratified at least 40 States. Six months after the ratification by the 40. We can determine the entry into force of this Convention. As this agreement is currently only ratified by nine states, but signed by 124 states, much remains to be done. At any rate, it is nice that Austria was the leader in this initiative, which is recognised internationally in all conferences. We were thus able to give a strong signal of the humanitarian attitude of Austrian politics to the world.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e7564	Mr Vice-Chanceller, Dr. Schüssel, is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e7585	High house! I think it is important that today's day has brought two unanimous and essential decisions: the joint condemnation of India's nuclear tests and the decision, the ratification of a comprehensive ban on anti-personnel mines. This shows that there is still this common sense of an Austrian policy that Austrian politics is able to look beyond political and political boundaries, distinguishing what is important, and that we are able to see where a small country like this can really play a role. In preparation for a speech I have read an interesting essay by Peter Sloterdijk entitled "If Europe Awakes". In this essay, Sloterdijk writes that, as soon as it comes back to life, important questions that only Europe can put to the fore are raised again, namely, truth. Europe’s deepest idea is to resist contempt. The insurmountability of this thought is that he remains true for tired and defeated people. And this is very important for this topic in particular: It was not the great powers, not so much the diplomats and the politicians – rightly thanked them today – who have forced this international treaty. Some speakers have already mentioned it: It was actually small countries that gave the other people the theme. – By the way, I do not want to be mentioned in this context by the Secretary of State Ferrero-Waldner, who has been very committed to this issue from a personal point of view – her father was a mine victim. [[General condolences.]] It was truly tens of thousands of NGOs' activists and action groups who predetermined this issue in many joint activities. From this you can gain a very important lesson: It does something when you sign a letter to the reader when you call you by lobbying. Small countries can do something. It can even come to a wave that quickly unfolds its effect. The interesting thing about this whole campaign is that it has probably been the most successful campaign ever in recent history, which has even led to the Nobel Peace Prize for the campaign in the person of Jody Williams. Jody Williams, on her visit here last week, made very clear the role of Austria – I did not dare to hope that she would say so clearly – in the foreground. We must not be satisfied with the fact that we are ratifying this Treaty today, but we must now act. In this sense, it is important to make money available for the demining, for the removal of the mines. It is also necessary to do something to facilitate the rehabilitation of mine victims. A prosthesis costs to work, often more than the annual income of a family in such a third world country. Therefore, together with the Austrian television and radio, together with the Austrian print media and newspapers, we have made a real effort to start an appeal about the Red Cross and the Caritas action "Nearbar in Emergency", so that as many people in Austria as possible not only say: G’scheit and good that you have done this!, but also get yourself into the bag and do something to make the efforts in the fight against the mines win shape. I would therefore like to appeal from this point on to all Austrians, just as in the past for "neighborly in need" – there has been more than 1 billion schilling collected in recent years, which shows that the Austrians really have a golden heart – also to donate for this specific campaign for landmine victims and the elimination of mines. [[General condolences.]] In this context, the role of the Federal Government was also highlighted. I am very grateful that this has been done by some Members. At the moment, for example, in Sarajevo, Austrian officers are working as trainers for local people, for local experts who are to eliminate the mines more quickly than before. Werner Fassleven and I were at the Council of Ministers of the Western European Union in Rhodes yesterday or yesterday – he and I were yesterday. We presented there a joint initiative by the Italians, which will hold the presidency of the Western European Union from summer onwards, and by us, which we will take over from summer on the Presidency of the European Union. We want to organise a joint seminar for the Central and Eastern European countries in order to eliminate the scepticism that is still in place in these countries, to make them understand that these mines are in fact militaryly worthless, that often decades after a war, they represent an inestimable potential for the civilian population, especially for the children, and that we are really available with advice and action and know-how transfer. I would also like to say very openly to the liberals: I am really pleased that you agree. I recognize and respect this and I received any comment about polemics or anything else. I am really pleased, for that is an essential sign for us that commonness is living. On the motion for a resolution: This is difficult because the budget for the next year, for 1999, has just been decided. I say quite frankly, however, that I personally commit myself to giving priority to the Minister of Defence a hundred percent during the next budgetary negotiations. Just as 40 million shilling has been provided for mine victims and mine mining this year, we will also set a priority in the next and the next year that Austrian soldiers' equipment will be reinforced with mine space equipment. Perhaps one could see this as a sign of commonness. [[General condolences.]] Again, thank you very much for this sign that an Austrian common foreign policy is living. Since we joined the European Union, we have not neglected our priorities in the UN, but have been able to even strengthen them.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e7666	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-Chancellor. There is now no mention of this. That concludes the debate. There is no final word from the rapporteur. We are entering the voting procedure and I therefore ask that the seats be taken. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall vote on the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Agreement on the prohibition of the use, storage, manufacture and transfer of antipersonnel mines and on their destruction and declaration by the Republic of Austria in 1088 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This request was adopted unanimously. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Scheibner and Mr Comrades on the equipment of the Austrian Federal Army for support in the area of mine. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, within the meaning of the Rules of Procedure. Paragraph 49 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act, to decide that the versions of this Convention in Arabic, Chinese, French, Russian and Spanish must be made known by giving rise to public consultation in the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is a multi-voice decision. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Protocol II on the prohibition or restriction of the use of mines, explosives and other devices to the Convention of 10 June 1970 on the protection of wild fauna and flora the prohibition or restriction of the use of certain conventional weapons, which may cause or work indiscriminately, as well as declarations, on October 1980; Protocol IV on blinding laser weapons to the Convention on the Prohibition or Restriction of the Use of Certain Conventional Weapons, which may cause excessive sufferings or affect them indiscriminately, together with a declaration of approval in 1107 of the Supplements. If you want to do this, I would ask for a sign of it. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by the Committee on Foreign Policy within the meaning of the Rules of Procedure. Paragraph 49 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act that the versions of the above-mentioned State Treaty in Arabic, Chinese, French, Russian and Spanish must be made known by the fact that they are open to public consultation in the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is so accepted. 14. Point Declaration by the Federal Minister for the Interior on the conclusion of investigations by the security authorities on the investigation of bombs and letter bomb attacks in recent years
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e7767	We're going to the 14th. On the agenda, the statement by the Federal Minister for the Interior. Following this declaration, a debate will be held in accordance with Article 81 of the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the request made by five Members. I now give the floor to the Federal Minister for the Interior. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e7794	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to thank you very much for the opportunity to make a brief statement to the House today on the issue of the criminal charges for the investigation of a series of terrorists which has shaken Austria since 1993. I have already submitted a brief report to the National Council in October last year, leading to the arrest of Franz Fuchs, to inform you, ladies and gentlemen, of the work of the security authorities. I should like to inform you that today the special commission formed by the EBT to clarify the bombing and letter bomb attacks of recent years has sent the full notification in this criminal case to the judicial authorities. The investigations of the security authorities will be concluded with today, subject to further orders by the court. At the same time, I would ask you to understand that I am unable to address details and details of the police investigations in the interests of the judicial examination which has not yet been completed. It is the case of the court to decide on guilt or innocence. My statement serves to report to the National Council and the public the work of the executive in a criminal case that has shaken our country for years. The report on the delivery of criminal charges should also be clearly opposed to various speculations and some presumptions about these attacks and their information in recent years. ==References====External links==* Official website In October 1997, the 947-page criminal charges are documented and supported by the expert opinions available to the authorities. A total of 14 opinions were commissioned by the court, with Franz Fuchs constantly confronted or faced with results. The results of the investigation carried out by the officials of the Special Commission comprise some 400 000 pages in 1525 registers. Incalculable is the number of hours spent to achieve this result – or even the amount of costs of the investigations in the Causa letter bombs. First of all, I would like to thank you from this point of view for the excellent work of the executive in recent years and for the intensive and committed investigations to clarify these terrible attacks. [[General condolences.]] My Thanks also to excellent cooperation and support with and through the judicial authorities. In particular, I would like to thank the "Special Commission on Letter Bombs", the EBT and the State Police for their commitment and professional approach. All employees of the security authorities are entitled to our recognition for their use and for their usual motivation to clarify the attacks. [[General condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== On December 11, 1993, a letter bomb was detonated in Hartberg and the priest Mag. August Janisch, a criminal case took its beginning, which was to become the most spectacular, long-lasting and extensive in the history of the Second Republic and to put the Austrian interior resort and all of us in front of a great strain. ==References====External links== In December 1996, it included a total of 25 letter bombs, one pipe bomb and two detonators in six series. ==References====External links== In February 1995 with the explosion of an explosion in Oberwart, which claimed four human lives. In addition to the four victims of death, 15 people were seriously injured in the course of the attacks; members of this house were also targets of terror. These people and their relatives continue to feel our compassion. We share their pain, their grief, and the shaking of a man-fearing terror. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The police were initially unprepared to this new dimension of terror for Austria. There was no experience in dealing with exceptional situations of this kind, but also in equipment and specific training. This manko was gradually balanced. Today, the Ministry of the Interior's organisational units responsible for dealing with terrorist special situations are highly responsible for crisis management. In clarifying, the investigators were given a twofold task: firstly, the security police officers, who were primarily in the aim of not allowing further attacks, but also in the criminal police, namely the goal of transferring the suspect to the criminal court. Both tasks could only be carried out through the investigation of the terrorist series or those responsible for the terrorist series. From the very beginning, the culprit's search focused on the right-wing radical scene. The selection of victims of the first series of bombs – almost without exception personalities who had committed themselves to strangers – as well as the confessions incorporated in the explosives apparently showed in this direction. With the arrest of Peter Binder and Franz Radl in mid-December 1993, this suspicion seemed to confirm itself and to have a rapid success. – The trial against these two men did not only end with an acquittal in the letter bomb causa: Terror continued unabated from August 1994 on. Since October 1994, there has been a confessional letter from a "Bajuvarian Liberation Army", which had never appeared before. This letter confirms in its content the tendencies of a hostile, racist way of thinking of historicalizing German- or Austrian-bombing provenance, as demonstrated by the selection of victims of the series of letters. In 1995, however, the researchers began to believe that a single perpetrator or a small group of up to three persons who would not have to belong to the circle of the so-called legal radicals could stand behind the attacks. The investigation activity has been intensified in this direction. The Federal Ministry of the Interior, whose political leaders at all times supported the investigation work of the investigators, had now overcome the initial problems that had also led to various misdemeanors and began to become offensive. ==References== In March 1995, a first criminal profile was published, tailored to a group of three people, and a reward of 10 million schilling was suspended for relevant evidence. At the same time, the entire executive was involved throughout Austria through the distribution of extensive information on the state of knowledge. In the autumn of 1995, the "Special Commission on Letter Bombs", which was set up shortly after the first attacks, was separated from the "unity to combat terrorism", and media work was to be improved by the establishment of a press speaker. From now on, the Special Commission should work in a purely criminal way – unabated from the political debate and political direction. In addition, liaison officers were installed in the federal states. This significantly improved cooperation with subordinate departments. Ladies and gentlemen! In the investigation work on the Causa letter bombs, we have taken new ways and methods of investigation. I would like to quote two examples: the "Action briefcases" and the "Restwasserprüfung" project. We have not made these new ways public, because only in this way could various arrangements and strategic measures be taken in all silence; Measures directed against the perpetrators under almost widespread secrecy. For example, only a small group of people up to today know of a project that should protect postal staff and potential recipients of letter bombs from their detonation effect. At the beginning of 1996, a device was commissioned to use the equipment of the letter bombs with a radio sensor, a device that should operate the radio sensor of the letter bombs through the delivery of an impulse and carry out the explosive charge. ==References== In June 1996, officials of the Gendarmerie deployment command, which were on the road in postal uniforms and with postal cars, equipped 2000 mail boxes in Lower Austria and Styria with these devices. The postal boxes had been selected taking into account the past operation of the culprit. In the case of a letter bomb, it would have been exploding in the mailbox. ==References====External links== In September 1996, in Weisskirchen in the state of Styria, a letter from the culprits was placed in such a prepared letter box. The letter contained a partially encrypted letter to the magazine "profile", but was not equipped with explosives. As of 1996, the attempt to communicate with the perpetrators via print media and television was made to a greater extent to put pressure on him or her. In November 1996 this Connex also published a book on the subject of "Brief bombs", which had been supported by the Federal Ministry of the Interior, in which the individual culprit theory was represented and a strongly accentuated crime profile was designed. In December 1996, a unique attempt was launched in the history of criminology, namely, to find a way to the crime scene over the water with which the mortar mix of the base of the detonation in Oberwart had been touched. A German scientist agreed to be able to excite the residual amount of water and investigate molecular physically. Later, some Austrian scientists were added to this project and, finally, even the nuclear energy authority was involved. As early as the spring of 1997, the first result was that a geographical limit to about seven district headquarters of the Burgenland and Styria – with the focus on Leibnitzer Becken – was possible. This was also the reason why, in the course of the parliamentary debate on the special methods of investigation of the executive was expressed by the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs's wish, the search for grids was made as early as 1. ==References====External links== In the "SOKO Letter Bombs" all preparations were made for a Raster Enforcement in these seven District Headquarters. This search would have been based, among other things, on the following parameters: a man aged between 35 and 60 with higher education, a special level of training in the field of electronics, individual knowledge in the field of inorganic chemistry and a possible employment relationship on a contract basis, taking into account the general profile of the perpetrator created by our experts. The preliminary work on an application to the Public Prosecutor's Office had been carried out to the extent that, at the criminal police level, the communication of the relevant databases, the client and any service provider had been initiated. The individual requests for individual query of datasets provided for in the Act have been formulated. Ladies and gentlemen! I am convinced that the executive would have encountered Mr Franz Fuchs in the implementation of this Rasterfachung. High house! ==References== However, on October 9, 1997, the "Brief Bombenfall" came into its decisive phase through the explosion of the Gralla bomb and the arrest of Franz Fuchs. ==References====External links== By the way, on October 1997, the indicators taken into account by the Special Commission were those of the planned grid search. Since the arrest of Franz Fuchs, more than seven months have passed since then, seven months in which the Special Commission and the other organizational units set up in excellent cooperation with the court and prosecutors have progressed the investigations to clarify the case with high pressure. Today, the police investigations have now been completed with the submission of the full notice to the Graz Public Prosecutor's Office. The said Special Commission is ahead of its resolution. Only five or six officials will continue to be available to the Court for additional investigations. High house! In the course of the letter bomb investigations, accusations against the Ministry of the Interior and the security executive were repeatedly raised. The successful termination of the surveys gives me the following conclusions: First of all, the Austrian security executive has shown that it can learn from mistakes and draw the necessary consequences. This has been shown, among other things, in the professional processing of the Fuch case. Secondly, under years of mental and physical pressure, the officials of the Special Commission and the other organizational units involved have worked with the greatest accuracy and objectivity. They have scrutinized all the tracks and clues, and they have also been unable to get out of the concept by numerous riders who have unfortunately given it. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Also a very open word: The arrest of Franz Fuchs was luck and coincidence. But I think it was not only happiness, but also the result of a consistently respected strategy to put pressure on the perpetrator to give him the feeling that the security authorities were already on him. The psychiatric expert's statement in the main proceedings will prove that this strategy has gone up and was correct. In fact, Fuchs began to destroy him in November 1996. He listed the marks of cars that he felt persecuted, and he finally avoided leaving the house more and more. He was most afraid – we know this from his statements – of the Rasterfachung, whose efficiency he highly valued as a technician and computer specialist. All of this eventually led to the well-known overreaction of this man in the control of the Gendarmerie. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The complete presentation of the Special Commission contains on 947 pages a cross section of the investigations of the last four and a half years. It lists all the crimes of the terrorist series, all the essential investigations and the results of the criminal and scientific investigations, and deals in particular with the evidence offered to the court and confirms the suspicion of crime against Franz Fuchs. Without prejudicing the judgment by the Justice Department, I can draw the following conclusion from the Ministry of the Interior's point of view: First: The suspect against Franz Fox is based on a dense index chain and, as the investigators believe, on some evidence. There are only a few examples of indices – without intervening in the floating process.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e7950	I may be allowed to interrupt. . I do not think it would be very good if the Minutes on this report were to say "sacrifice". - Thank you. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's another reason!]] But it will not appear in the minutes. [[Abg. Gaugg: The clubman of the ÖVP is asleep in the report!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: He's asleep in the Minister's report!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] [[President Dr. Brauneder gives the bell sign.]] I'm asking for attention! – If you please continue, Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e8015	Ladies and gentlemen! I repeat that the suspicion against Franz Fuchs is based on a dense chain of indices and, as the investigators believe, on some evidence. There are only a few examples of evidence. This includes the already mentioned result of the water investigation, which has made two findings: firstly, the indication that the water with which the bomb base was mixed by Oberwart was from Gralla; secondly, that the base must have been made in the working room of the Franz Fox, which results from the tritium content of the water, to which comparative values were found only in this area. The evaluation of the secure handwritten schematics, electrical measuring series and detailed descriptions for the construction of letter bombs and other explosive devices showed that they are partly accurate in line with the results of the criminal technical investigations already carried out. Schedules of the attacks Oberwart, Klagenfurt, Stinatz and the letter bomb attacks of the V, V and VI series could also be ensured. The electronic components or circuits, which have already been partially processed in the course of the house search, an explosive trap, a flower pot, several explosive-filled pipes, two alarm clocks manipulated as a ignition trigger, and a functional trigger electronics for explosives are in conspicuous connex to the explosive devices used between 1993 and 1996. In a pencil sketch, which was also found in the Franz Fuch's office, the detailed installation of the trigger wires of the I, II and IV letter bomb series was shown. The explosives Nitroglycerin and nitrocellulose secured in the suspect’s home, as well as the initial precursors silver fulminate and mercury fulminate, were used in all the attacks to be assigned to the BBA. The self-directed nitroglycerin synthesized by Franz Fuchs is expected to correspond in chemical purity and composition to that of the December 1993 letter bomb series. The computer system used by Franz Fuchs was extended by self-written work programmes and adapted for the encryption of text points. A multi-page, handwritten document found in the course of the house search shows significant similarities in style, verbal cynicism, thematic principle texting and computer formatting with confessional letters already published and written by the culprit. The opinions commissioned by the Landesgericht Graz confirm that the outcome of the investigations by the security authorities is correct and support the suspicion of Franz Fuchs. The result of the water assessment already mentioned – which is a residual water investigation and an isotope detection – which was prepared by three research centres in Austria and Germany, is a strong indication for the safety authorities in the evidence chain against Franz Fuchs. Other expert opinions concern the electronics used in the explosions, a linguistic assessment of the confession letters, the cryptographic capabilities of the suspect, the objects secured in the course of the house search, and the historical knowledge of the suspect compared to the statements in the confessor's letters. In addition, a DNA study, sprengtechnologie opinions, two psychiatric opinions on the person Franz Fuchs and one of the opinions concerning IT were presented. The scientists provide further strong evidence in their expert opinions. In the course of the hearings, it was possible to find out that the purpose of the confessions was to incite fear among the population. People should feel that the executive can no longer guarantee their protection. The background to the attacks should be minority and xenophobia, Germanism and the rejection of state institutions, in particular security executives and judicial authorities. High house! ==References====External links==* Official website In October 1997, their investigations continued to intensify in order to obtain backgrounds and evidence for possible further perpetrators. Since the beginning of the investigations in 1993, the SOKO and the authorities concerned have carried out 103 house searches, to which 54 000 people have been checked, 9 800 notes have been examined. In the last months, 403 persons were checked in the Causa Franz Fuchs and more than 100 references were made concerning his person. Seven months of investigation since the arrest of Franz Fuchs did not give the slightest indication that Franz Fuchs had fellow perpetrators or even helpers. Franz Fuchs has not filed a comprehensive confession in the hearings. He continues to represent himself only as part of the "Bajuvarian Liberation Army". Franz Fuchs, however, has detailed knowledge of the construction of the bombs, which only the constructor himself can have. He also admitted to have built up bombs whose components had been delivered to him by the "BBA". – Our investigators have found no clues and no evidence or evidence for any other fellow perpetrators. The Ministry of the Interior therefore assumes the suspicion of a person at the end of the investigations. All attempts to support some conspiracy by sending alleged confession letters have failed. This letter of recent months has all been recognized as imitations. Ladies and gentlemen! From the point of view of the security authorities, both the security police and the criminal police task is fulfilled. The conclusion of the police investigations shows optimism in the future and expects the speculation-rich letter bomb case to find a clarifying conclusion by the court in a few months. With the arrest of Franz Fuchs and the police and judicial investigations, we have taken an important step towards combating terrorism. From this point of view, I should also like to thank the people for their active cooperation. Since the beginning of the attacks, thousands of notices have been received from the authorities. Letter bomb terrorism has left bloody traces and has clearly led us to see that in our midst there are still people who deeply despise the values for which this republic stands. I mean values such as democracy, freedom, tolerance and the peaceful interaction of people. Many Austrians have been afraid of the future in the face of this cowardly and insidious terror. Many may have wondered whether the foundations of our democracy and republic are strong enough not to cause any damage. – Dear ladies and gentlemen! We must not forget that we had to assume for a long time that the acts of terrorism could be based on an organized network. The Austrians have responded from the beginning of the series of terrorists with the necessary caution as well as with revulsion and rejection against any form of violence. Our country has agreed against politically motivated acts of violence and has given a clear rejection to all kinds of terrorism, intimidation and xenophobia. Terror – whether for political or other reasons – can and will not be given a chance in Austria. [[General condolences.]] The security authorities will do everything in their power so that the foundations of our democracy and republic cannot be shaken in the future. The executive – and in particular the state police – will continue its clear and hard line against terrorism. The Federal Government, as well as all democratic forces and parties, are working fully for a secure Austria, for a country in which co-existence and tolerance are in the foreground. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e8131	Thank you very much for your report, Federal Minister. We are entering the debate. The first speaker is Mr Magistrate. Stadler. 15 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e8158	Mr President. High house! Mr Federal Minister, what you are reporting today on the state of the investigation, as a result of what the employees of your home have found out and have now made known: This state of play, of course, also has to do with the fact that there has been a political change in your place of business. I think that the intermezzo of your predecessor, the minister who worked between Franz Löschnak and your term of office, is one responsible for trying to instrumentalise this bomb-retardant politically, that it has encouraged denunciants and misinformeds, that it has been treated just as benevolently – one of them has even gone into and out of the ministry under the Federal Minister – and that not only financial and criminalist, but also political damage has been done, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! High house! We don't want to forget this damage if we let Revue happen over the last few years. [[Abg. Oils: What was your role?]] [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: You can apologize once!]] There's the first one! It is one of those factions that have not yet brought it to the heart to find a word of excuse for all those abuses, suspicions and lump-sum convictions, especially against my group today. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They are one of the co-responsible for the questioning of hundreds of decent citizens in our country, for conducting house searches and for hearings. But there were no civil rights debates in the room at that time! Only when a green person is meant to be, under some circumstances or with certainty, belonging to some far-left groups – Mr. Ollinger, too, with his communist past, belongs to a group that was once located on the far left edge of the political spectrum – will you only talk about civil law. [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Abg. Parent]] But as long as it is about the rights of citizens who are not left-wing, it does not matter to Mr Ollinger how people in our country are treated, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That's really unfortunate, and that's a problem I don't blame your party. I am putting it before a Minister, a Minister of the Interior and a former Minister of the Interior, and I propose to various groups in this country that they have tried to cook their political soup with an instrumentization of bomb terrorism. This is something that was unique in this Republic! I am glad, ladies and gentlemen, that this has ceased under Federal Minister Schlögl. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This also has a little to do with the fact that there are decent officials, which should be mentioned from this occasion, that there are decent top officials in this country who are not under political pressure from a minister, although they were even threatened with criminal charges, because they did not believe in the politically desired line of denunciation and did not adhere to it, but thought of the educational work of criminalism when they supported the publication of the book quoted by you, Mr. Federal Minister. For what Mr Schlögl acknowledges today in his report was the subject of two years ago in the reporting of daily newspapers and the subject of the discussion on whether to commit a criminal offence against the officials concerned. – Ladies and gentlemen! That was a low point of investigation. This was also a low point of police action, and it showed how, with political pressure and political infiltration, one tried to make an entire police apparatus a precursor organization of a party. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! I am concerned today not only to clarify the case of Franz Fuchs and the Bomben-Causa in the narrower sense, but also, in a next step, to clarify the activity of all those disinformants – they call them "triggers" – and all those targeted attempts to guide the investigations in a completely different direction. In addition, the damage that was done with fake confession letters and with strange advice on how it has produced the so-called documentation archive of Austrian resistance in the politically desired sense, should be resolved to criminalise the entire readership of a particular newspaper of the Freedom Academy Association. This is also part of what I believe belongs to the criminal case "Bombenattentate in Austria" and what is also to be explained. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is not a way of dealing with citizens, nor can we use citizens' taxpayers' taxpayers' money to achieve a political instrumentalisation of a whole series of crimes, and not to allow citizens to pay for it. Federal Minister! I would also be interested in what you intend to do with all those strange experts and their questionable opinions that have led to huge honours. There are opinions from scientists and those who believe in it, or from technical experts who have shown that they are no longer as HTL teachers who have delivered opinions for expensive money. Ladies and gentlemen! To this day, no one has thought about whether one should perhaps impose legal obligations, raise repayment claims. That these people deserved a nice pocket money with what was politically desired, so that these people should be paid for such a thing, too, I don't see. I think that I agree with most of the Austrian people when I say that those experts have to question whether they have ever justified their fees. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The "Third Boarders", as you call them – I call them "Deinformants" – and some of them have now published a book for which one of the alleged fellow victims acts as editors – you know, Mr. Federal Minister, which book I mean – have already, in part, already come to realize. I would like to hear from you, Federal Minister, how the state of investigation against these people is. [[Abg. Young holds a book with a envelope on which two red longitudinal strips can be seen in height.]] Mr. Jung is just showing the book, and I would like to make a bit of an advertisement here: It is so incredibly stupid that you should actually recommend it to everyone to read so that you can know how primitively you can lead a whole country and a whole police device astray for years. That's just a pattern reading that shows how that's possible. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! I would like to believe that Franz Fuchs is the alleged main culprit and that he must certainly be responsible for the most part of this crime. [[Abg. May. Steindl: This will not be so difficult after the investigations!]] I like to believe that. I believe that the investigations have provided the necessary evidence of the facts. A little scepticism can be reported with regard to whether it really is completely impossible for him to act without any fellow-champter. I dare – in view of the evil work of the publishers and co-editors of that book, who have partly acted as denunciators, and in view of what is to be read in it and what was to be read in part as a sender on confession letters – to report at least doubts that should not be completely disputed. One should not completely represent the criminal case as a case of a single perpetrator. Although the investigations so far have not provided any evidence for fellow perpetrators, I think that one or the other could be found in the course of the court proceedings. One last concern, ladies and gentlemen. That's what I'm talking about. We should return to the point that our police equipment is working unaffected, as well as the judicial system. However, a part of this house – in particular the socialists – is somewhat different. Internal meetings will be held in law firms, talking about how to get additional judicial posts for the SPÖ and how to have more socialist judges at the courts through law practitioners in the future. So that may be, but we should return to that we... [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: That's something you're looking at!]] No, I can prove that to you, Mr. Colleague Doppelmüller. I even have the minutes of this meeting at the Lansky firm. Mr Jarolim and Mr Hlavac took part in this, and there was a discussion on how to make a change in the order in the staff Senate, that more socialist judges should be brought into the courts, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] I can imagine that the SPÖ has a need for this, if I look at the problem that Mr Kostelka has with the prosecution from his own party headquarters, or for example the problem of Mr. Ex-Bundeskanzler Vrannitzky, since he was unable to explain yesterday evening that he had nothing to do with the Ostmafia, as a specialist for the Ostmafia – Mr. Jürgen Roth – has tax-freely addressed broadcasting. [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: Yesterday we heard the Klagenfurt Protocol!]] Yes, this is a problem, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: What about the Klagenfurt Agreement?]] [[Further calls.]] Federal Minister! The scams that justice and the police are supposed to have according to the wishes of some in your party will, I hope, no longer exist at least in your place of business. You said that the police had long been out of a "organized network" in the course of the investigations. – Ladies and gentlemen! If you are currently reading the newspapers, you know that we are currently dealing with another organized network, one that ensures that jewelers are already shot in bright days by execution orders from the East. This is an organized network that will actually and should employ the police, and also without any political scams. It will also be possible to examine whether that indication is being examined via television by an internationally recognized Ostmafia expert named Roth, that former ministers – meaning: SPÖ – and a former Federal Chancellor – are called: Franz Vrannitzky – are travelling with Eastmafia contacts, ladies and gentlemen! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] This was not invented by me, but it was to be heard last night. Ex-Bundeskanzler Vrannitzky was not able to disarm this, but has only called upon the journalist to know who she is talking to, namely, the ex-Bundeskanzler Franz Vrannitzky. Therefore, she should not ask so stupid questions about his Ostmafia contacts. Would you like some more evidence for that? – On this we will have a separate debate, ladies and gentlemen. These are actually organized networks. Mr Löschnak! You know what ex-minister I mean. Not you, because you are one of those ministers that we have always considered to be highly decent Social Democrats, whose thanks to God there is a greater number. But no party is opposed to criminals and mercenaries, we held it ourselves yesterday. [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: The party with the Rosenstingl!]] Who says that yesterday evening Mr Roth offered to the Austrian television audience the claim that the ex-Bundeskanzler Franz Vrannitzky Mafia has contacts? – At least this is something you will have to do, Minister of State! You can't just do this by yelling, embittering and telephoning, where you try to embarrass an ORF journalist, getting out of the world. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Our police - I think that will be possible under this Minister - must be protected from any party-political influence as well as justice. This is the only way to guarantee public security. The only way to ensure that former ministers and former chancellors cannot make this country a march for East Mafia agents!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e8363	Mr Leikam is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member. [[Abg. Sweamlein: Stadler is slowly becoming pathological!]] [[Further calls and calls between the SPÖ and the Freeman.]] I call Mr Leikam. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e8398	Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In October last year, after the arrest of Franz Fuchs in Parliament, when the Interior Ministers reported on this arrest, there was also an accusation by Mr Stadler in the area at the beginning of the debate. At the time, he had sent out via the APA that there would have been an interlocutory between Mr Sika and Mr. Minister One in the apartment of Mr. Federal Chancellor Vrannitzky. – This claim was not to be maintained, it was quite simply false. Today, again at the beginning of this debate, we are experiencing the same games of Mr Stadler: He again contaminates old German chancellor Vranitzky with allegations that are not durable. [[Abg. Gaugg: That was on TV!]] Mr Stadler! What you're doing here is Ruf murder at the former Federal Chancellor! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call the liberals: On TV!]] Have you not read his opinion on the allegations made by the ORF and Mr Roth today about the APA? Why Do Not Hide Do you have this opinion? – The Sudel campaign, Mr Stadler, which you are doing here in Parliament again and again, must be strongly rejected! [[Abg. Gaugg: Leikam, you're gonna get a headache!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Gaugg: Heavy headache, Leikam!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ and to the Freeman.]] Just as your claim that there should have been secret talks in any room regarding the attitude of the judges belonging to SPÖ. [[Abg. Gaugg: You're gonna have a hard headache!]] That's the same bad bitch you keep going here in this house! Ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party! You will not have forgotten the day yesterday! Members of the Liberal Party had to resign, a state party observer had to resign, after a liberal representative has been arrested since today. [[Call the Freeman: They have voluntarily resigned!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Where are you? – Measure once in your own rows, make order in your own rows! [[Abg. May. Stadler: When does One step back?]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grabner: In Lower Austria no one believes you anymore!]] [[Calls and calls between the SPÖ and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Stadler's claim that political change in the resort would have created a different climate I have missed a lot today, Mr Stadler. [[Abg. Young: Not a word of regret!]] Because when you spoke here seven months ago, you still made debt allocations, you talked about the "genosus" that it was. I have to remind you once again that there has been debt allocations from your party observer, namely debt allocations for the four dead in the upper guard. [[Abg. Scheibner: You have shaken us for years!]] What did Haider say back then? – It will probably have been the handrails, the waffle belts or the Serbian intelligence service. [[Abg. Gaugg: Or the Ostmafia?]] That's exactly what the allocations were at the time! I repeat what I said in October: If you again complain today that at the beginning of the investigations by the then Minister One was only determined in one direction, in the direction of the right-wing extreme scene, then I say once again in detail, for my whole group: No one from the SPÖ Group has accused the Freedom Party or a member of the Freedom Party of being involved in the letter bomb attacks. Give me such proof! [[Prolonged calls to the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party! But if we have spoken of members of the far right scene as possible suspects of crime and find yourself in this right-wing scene, then this is your problem, but not the problem of this House! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The accusation that Minister Löschnak or Minister It is probably not to be maintained that one is hidden or that the investigations have guided in a consciously different direction. [[Abg. Young: The Sika said it!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] If you look at the total chronologically, then They are coming up quite soon – Minister Schlögl has said this very clearly in his report today –: When the letter bomb series began in Austria, the executive faced a situation like it had never existed before. There was no experience, there was no equipment available. One has just never been confronted with such a crime, and that was the beginning. But the first decisive measures were taken by Löschnak, and in one case the direction of criminal police investigations was given. The establishment of the SOKO has taken place under one voice, ladies and gentlemen. Whether you want to take note of this or not, that's your problem, but that's reality and fact! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For the accusation that innocent people have been consulted in house searches: How do you want to solve such a difficult crime, even if it is not necessary to ask someone who has nothing to do with the case at all? – 54 000 people were checked, as we heard from the Federal Minister, and there were well over 100 house searches. [[Abg. Young: In underpants with stopped storm gun to check!]] In the end, the result is crucial, ladies and gentlemen. The result is a truly encouraging one, and I do not want to say here to all those who have been responsible for the investigations since 1993 - in the judicial system, in the executive - also the thanks of our group. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Today, we from the Socialist Group are also bowing down to the victims. Mr Stadler! I missed that with you. At that time, when there were those four dead ones of superiors, they made debt allocations in a certain direction and found no word of regret. [[Abg. Aumayr: You want to make us perpetrators!]] You didn't do it today! Actually, you should be ashamed! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Boy: That's not true!]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: You want to turn it around!]] Ladies and gentlemen! What has been done by executives since 1993 in the post-bomb series, which has claimed four dead and 15 seriously injured. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] I am impressed by what we have heard in this Chamber today from the Federal Minister: over 400 000 search pages! [[Abg. Young: Not enough!]] The display covers almost 1,000 pages! Over 1,500 folders have been made in the course of these investigations! A great performance! In small and medium-sized work, supported by state-of-the-art technology, the investigation committee has established that the biggest criminal in our country will be in front of the judge in good time. In my view, what is included in the final report is also sufficient to condemn it accordingly. So I repeat: It was a good day for everyone when Franz Fuchs could be arrested. It was lucky too! Because since we have heard it again, I have to say clearly once again to all those in this house who did not want to attack the noise and the grid: Not least, Franz Fuchs became nervous and made a big mistake because he knew that the day on which he made this mistake was the first day on which the Rasterfährung could be applied in Austria. And that made him nervous! – Not for nothing he has been following for a long time and has written down the numbers of all the cars that have traveled around him, as the surveys and the receipts have resulted. It was a confirmation! Once again to all the ministers responsible for this: It was a clear confirmation of all the assumptions that the Ministry had expressed in those four and a half years of possibilities in space. – Until 1995 it was not clear where the case would turn and who the perpetrators were. From 1995 onwards, the theory of individual perpetrators has become very compact, and finally it was. The profile of the perpetrator, which Minister Schlögl mentioned in his report today, had already been drawn up at the time. The room has become tighter, and the sling has pulled itself together. Finally, there has been a arrest, and now it is up to the court to condemn it accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion, I would like to stress that the executive has done an excellent job and that, above all, the Austrians can be pleased that this so unique criminal case in our history now stands in court and in the last part of the sentence. For I am convinced that the Austrians want to live in a country where there is a very, very extensive inner and social security and an internal peace. It is the Austrian people's wish that such a thing cannot and must not happen in our country! We, who are active in politics, have to ensure that these ideas of the population can also be implemented and realized accordingly. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Zweytick.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Democracy-distorting elements must not have a place in our country – no matter where they may come from. [[Abg. Young: Purcheller!]] [[Abg. Aumayr: One!]] This is the first step in this direction, and the first step in this direction is the accusations and allegations made in this House today by Mr Stadler. For these accusations have been made against better knowledge! . Mr Stadler, I therefore urge you to take back these accusations by no evidence and apologise!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e8783	Two actual corrections have now been reported to me. I would particularly like to point out the provisions of the Rules of Procedure on the conduct of actual corrections. The first actual correction is made by Mr Oellinger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e8829	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In his remarks, Mr Stadler once again spoke about my "communist past" – for better knowledge. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Marxist!]] [[Abg. Koppler: That would not be a problem either!]] I'll put it right: I was never a member of an organization that was in direct or indirect relationship with the Communist Party. But maybe the remark is...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e8869	Mr President, I should like to thank Actual correction, no comment.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e8885	Perhaps Mr Stadler's comment is due to the fact that...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e8914	This goes beyond the actual correction, you comment on a speech by Mr Stadler. You only have to correct the facts.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e8941	... with the sense of a Doberman not to distinguish between membership in a Catholic organization, namely the Catholic boy in which I was actually active, and membership in the Communist youth – or what I know which organization you had in mind – can be distinguished. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Why can't you finally take away the microphone, Mr. President?]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e8980	Furthermore, Mr Mag. Mag. Stadler reported an actual correction. I also refer to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e9008	High house! Mr Leikam has claimed that there would never have been any talk about strengthening the socialist influence in judicial policy. - That's wrong. [[Abg. Grabner: Once he starts apologizing, we can't leave and have to stay here!]] On the contrary, it is true that the 12th century. July 1997 following a protocol of the law firm Lansky in Vienna with the following participants Elisabeth Hlavac, Dr. Helga Hofbauer, Mag. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Oh! The Lansky!]] Henri Goldmann, Senate President...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e9048	The motion for a resolution does not refer to a contribution to debate, it is not an actual correction!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e9077	If you allow me to say that, as my previous speaker also provided comments, I can also finish my case.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e9102	Yeah, I'll let you do it. It refers to Mr Leikam.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e9117	Solicitor Dr. Johannes Jarolim, prosecutor Nittel. the following was carried out: On the subject of "Personal Policy" it should be considered how the party can contribute even more than before. Proposals will be made on how to bring more socialists into a judicial function through the judicial service law as an starting point for legal practitioners in the future. And finally, a proposal is made: In this context, the question arises whether an informal legal group should not be set up, which should finalize the idea of a legal sociological investigation. [[Abg. Mr Grabner: Correction, Mr President!]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: This is a correction! Read the protocol!]] It is then agreed that such an investigation would not do anything because...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e9163	Deputies! That's what's going on now... [[Prolonged calls.]] I'm sorry for these calls! Deputies! To assess the actual correction is only possible at the end of the day. I now have the suspicion that it goes beyond an actual correction and do so properly.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e9187	... because so many blues are active in the media justice. – That's to be read!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e9252	Mr Moser is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e9274	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I think it will be necessary to reverse the emotions, because security debates or debates on internal security should be conducted on an objective basis and not so emotionally. It would otherwise be a false impression, and we would be giving bear service to the parliamentary debate on a question so important to Austrian security! I am very grateful to Mr Schlögl for having given us today a report on the conclusion of the Fuch crime. The gratifying side is that, despite the lack of a confession, now apparently with great probability, Mr. Fuchs of the perpetrators of this series for years is the Austrian population and executive in breathing series of letter bombs! I would therefore like to express a special thanks to my group of the executives, because it was finally their work, through which the Fuchs case can now be passed on to independent courts in this form. Ladies and gentlemen! The case of Fuchs is due to its criminal dimension – after all, several dead and a large number of seriously injured persons – and one of the completely new types of terrorism for Austrian domestic policy has not been a criminal case like the other that we have had in our country in recent years and have partly debated in the House. But also the political dimension in this case is new, as it was tried to politically argue and politicalize the letter bomb series. I believe that we are in a bad position to bring party policy into the debate and to fund small parties' money! That's irresponsible. No matter which side of terror comes from – whether from the right or the left – this is not a case of party-political argumentation! Party policy has to stay out. It will be necessary for the executive to be able to determine from the outside even in the future without party political influence. Because if she can – and from a certain point of time it was that God was possible, thank you – then the corresponding positive results will also come. And that is what we all want to do for a safe Austria! The Fuchs case certainly also had some positive sides. Mr. Fuchs has now been arrested, and since he has been detained, the bomb terror of the "Bajuvarian Liberation Army" has also ceased. It remains to be hoped that the individual culprit theory is true. A lot of things speak for it, and I also assume that this series of terrors could be put to an end. A positive and correct outcome of the investigations is that the equipment and equipment of the executive in the field of computer and criminal police has improved. It is also true that, with the formation of the Special Command, there has been a significant improvement in security police work, in particular through the interdisciplinary approach chosen for it. Ladies and gentlemen! I hope that these experiences will continue to be reflected in the work of the executive in the future. But it must also be said clearly – and the Minister of the Interior has clearly agreed today – that the executive was not prepared for it. For me, the question now arises: What about the assessment of security policy? – I think it is a failure of the executive to be surprised by such a wave of terror. If a corresponding assessment of the situation – including internal security issues – had been made, then one should have been prepared for it. There are parallels abroad, for example the "UNA-Bomber"! Thus, such criminal cases should have found their rainfall in the training of the executive. There are organizational improvements that have long been standard in other police services. This was a political failure of the Social Democratic Minister of the Interior, who had the responsibility before Minister Schlögl. Ladies and gentlemen! The Minister of the Interior also said that Fuchs had not been arrested or transferred in principle, but he had set himself up, and "Commissioner Random" had directed. – It also raises the question for me why this case of fox – and I have already mentioned the equipment and equipment and the organisational situation of the executive – has required it so that the executive has been brought to the last technical standard. We have very often pointed out in this House, particularly in connection with the debates on the budget of the Ministry of the Interior, that there is a need for re-examination, but unfortunately there was a need for a whirlwind in order to make progress in modernising the executive. The Fuchs case has also shown that within the executive there have been internal problems in the interaction of the various police departments. These necessary structural measures should have been put in place and put in place for a long time. There were also tensions with services outside the security police apparatus, for example with the Army News Office. Federal Minister! However, I have missed from you a positive mention of the military intelligence service which, by decoding encrypted messages, has at least made an important contribution to the investigation of this crime. Finally, the Fuchs case also showed us that the reform stand is insurmountable. Federal Minister! There is still a lack of reform in the field of state police and the criminal police service. This case should now be taken as a matter of urgency. I expect you, Federal Minister Schlögl, to use – even though the Austrian People's Party and its security spokesperson, Mr Kiss, as I hear it, to oppose the reform of the State Police and the Criminal Police Service, since there is no reform of the military intelligence service which they are junctifying with it – even without the support of the Austrian People's Party taking such reform steps. [[Abg. May. Steindl: Always yell!]] Mr Steindl! If it were to be different, I would be glad, because then it can be expected that the reform of the State Police and the Criminal Police Service can finally be realized. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: You only tell fairy tales!]] I also expect a reform in the field of training. Mr Kiss, you can also write that down. I expect that your group will finally have a final vote on the reform of the Security Academy, so that we can set very important priorities in the field of training, which of course also have a positive impact on the level of training of executives and can thus be clarified with greater probability and, above all, more quickly. Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion, I should like to say that the introduction of the noise attack and the search for grids has ultimately led to the 'nervous' of Mr Fuchs being taken up. – In my view, what the Federal Minister has said is at most a statement or claim; That's what he owes us. I regret that Parliament has come to implement these survey methods. If I allow myself to repeat what the Minister of the Interior has said, namely, the criteria under which the Raster Enforcement would have been carried out – man, age between 35 and 60 years of age; the perpetrator's profile, as far as I can remember, has given a different age limit; higher schooling, special training in the field of electronics – then I really want to ask the question, Mr Federal Minister: In which databases are such information stored? [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Does the Austrian executive provide a complete collection of these data from the Austrian population? How does that look? Or on the criterion of the special level of training in the field of organic chemistry and employment on the basis of contract contracts: Which databases are linked to which bodies and organisations are addressed by the executive? – That’s what we want! This fact is for us the confirmation that we were right when we rejected the introduction of noise attack and grid arrest. Because this is the way the child is poured out with the bath, and the benefits that may be associated with it are in no relation to the disadvantages – the blow against fundamental and freedom rights, even the task of fundamental fundamental rights and freedoms. On the other hand, we will also act massively in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e9337	The next speaker is Mr Kiss. Speech time: 6 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e9359	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! In the light of a fairy tale – and it is a beautiful fairy tale, Mr. Federal Minister, it is called "Hans im Glück" – I would say at first: Karl in luck. There is no doubt that in politics there is also a certain degree of happiness, to Fortüne, that a politician in a political function can ultimately also be held accountable, a statement can be made, in the particular case a statement on the greatest criminal case of Austrian history in the Second Republic. Federal Minister! On the part of the ÖVP a simple consideration on this: We believe that this statement has been balanced. It was critical in the area where criticism was appropriate. She'll get our approval. I can only support you in these intentions. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Once again, we all do well to keep up with each other at a time when the words between right and left have flown back and forth again, in which one has struck one another with the Dreschflegel, at a time when the Minister of State has, among other things, spoken of the victims. We from the Austrian People's Party – and I am very serious about what I have to say – have always regretted those who have become victims of this terrorism, this act of violence, and we regret it now in this situation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am approaching the subject today for the first time from the ideological position. We from the Austrian People's Party are the only party in the democratic spectrum of what the others do not have together: We know that we represent the position of the middle. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Go, stop! What a crowd there!]] [[Further call of the Abg. Gaugg.]] We know that we represent a position of the centre, which covers precisely this important area and makes us calm, which makes us safe; a position of the centre, which is not in the left and not on the right, a position of the centre, of which we know that this country is best led out of this position of the centre, among other things through our co-responsibility. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Gaugg: Where are the Scientologists? In the middle?]] We have shown in the past – and our party owners stand for – that the Austrian People's Party has stood up not only against violence, against radicalism, but also against any form of terrorism. We find ourselves confirmed by this current occasion, and we know that it is our political mission, from this point of view, to continue this political path against violence, against racism, against radicalism, against terrorism. The EIA will do this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The second line of thought in this context is the executive. Federal Minister! We have recorded that you, as the political responsible, meant much of what had become reversible in connection with the Causa fox, among other things, had become reckable because the executive had been unprepared. It is good to think in an hour of success about the areas in which one has not been successful. It's good for you, it's good at the ministry, it's good for the executive to exercise insight, and we're glad that you did this in a form that's correct. It is true that the executive has been unprepared for this form of terrorism. It is true that the experience was not present, even if there had been opportunities to think internationally, not only to set up on international models, but also to follow international models. That's right. But it has become better, and we all registered it together, and in this direction we want to go. And it is true that there was a lack of equipment, of technical equipment, and we know that the training was not the one we expected. Federal Minister! Mr Moser has referred to me that it would be me who would vote against an arbitrary STAPO reform, against new structures. That surprised me. I have never said anything like that to anyone, not to my colleague, Moser, not even in the coulour sector, but above all to the responsible man for STAPO, the Federal Minister. A STAPO reform will not fail in the ÖVP. I, as chairman of the STAPO Committee in Parliament, am, on the contrary, interested in these reformatory approaches, and I can assure myself that, together with the Federal Minister for the Interior, we will, of course, discuss and implement this STAPO reform, which the colleague Moser has mounted, in the coalition. I can assure you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In conclusion: Ladies and gentlemen! Because the ÖVP as a party of the middle, as a party of this democratic spectrum in the past, has stood for this path, we are aware of our responsibility, including the executive, also for the fight against terrorism, radicalism and violence. This country is going a good way with the ÖVP. We will do our part.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e9446	The next item is Mrs Dr Petrovic's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e9467	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The further this debate progresses, the more I wonder: Mr. Federal Minister, what was the intention, the purpose of your statement today? – I was actually expecting that you would inform us today that the investigations have been completed and that the process is now under way. Now, however, I note: You give an interim report, but it is very clear from a particular name of the person fox as a perpetrator, based on indices and, as you say, evidence of facts. I am already wondering if you will be doing a good job on the process ahead, and if I am thinking of Mr Stadler's speech on this subject today, I do not know whether this debate is a good service to this House as a whole. But maybe you can tell us something about your motivation. If it was a motivation to give an interim report on the need and the success of the Rasterfachung, then, I must say, the report does not correspond to what you want to derive from it. I cannot see from this your report any justification or justification for the introduction of these special methods of investigation. One thing I find very remarkable is that the crime psychologist Thomas Müller, who was also publicly discussed at the time, did not cover himself with the one you present to us today. A previous speaker said that the culprit's profile had been presented once again. It has not been presented again, for it has been changed, Mr Federal Minister, and clearly so. There are a few similar or similar points, such as that the suspected perpetrator is reading books and magazines, Catholic, orderly, and cynic. These are all facts for which there are certainly no cards and which are difficult to detect. For if I look at my colleagues, I cannot ad hocly say who is very orderly. I don't know. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Leikam.]] Yes, it is, Mr Leikam. It's difficult. It's very difficult, and you'd probably draw wrong conclusions. But where the facts are really hard and verifiable, Minister of State, you have changed the profile of the perpetrator vis-à-vis that of the psychologist Müller today. In the then published crime profile it was said: 50 years or older and pensioner. - That's not true. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Why not?]] This is not true because Mr Fuchs is younger and because he is also unemployed and not a pensioner. Ladies and gentlemen, these are clear differences. Mr Federal Minister, you should ask yourself what you are doing with this debate and from where and for what reasons, including SPÖ-internal, the support for it. That has quite different reasons. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: What reasons?]] The next hard fact, where one could at all be rastered, in the perpetrator's profile: Alone, he already has adult children and grandchildren. " stand alone" does not apply because he lived in a family association, though as a specialling. Also "children and grandchildren" do not apply. In other words, with this perpetrator profile, which you have somehow changed in your statement today – I also ask you why – you have absolutely gridmed in the wrong direction, and that at extreme cost. Federal Minister! They mentioned the residual water tests, the analysis of the schematics and fragments of confession letters. Yes, you have always been urged by this House in its entirety, in particular by those who themselves have received letter bombs, to apply these conventional search methods in their most modern form. If there is any evidence in this case, they are due to the conventional search methods. I really want to stick to this in every form. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Another in connection with the Rasterfahndung: The fact that the very dangerous organized crime does not really frighten itself from the Austrian Rasterfachung proves that events like that are being shot in Vienna's city centre on the bright day. The perpetrators, who seem to be really professional criminals, cannot be deterred by their new arrest methods and are now apparently on the run. These methods will probably not be necessary for other volatile persons, because they are known by name and with their image. Federal Minister! Secondly, If you say in the statements, it turns out very soon that the perpetrator is not out of the circle of the right-wing radicals, I must ask you: What's the suspected culprit of fox? – Minister of State! There are not only legal radicals that are under 30 years of age, who have shaved almost a slick and run around with black boots, but there were at all times Nazis on the desks, quite hidden, quite unobtrusive, and there were those who appeared with their military emblems. There were people in Austria who worked as doctors who killed small children and put their brains in Spiritus. These are still in office and dignity. And there are others: We have here a suspected culprit, who clearly and in long written elaborates as a far-right, political culprit. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You have also said – and I would also like to ask you once again how this is meant in detail, because of course it always comes out of the words a certain undertone: All attempts to support the conspiracy that some conspiracy have conspired – I do not want to find myself in the words that are not quite ideally chosen – have failed. – If you say that this presumption has not hardened or is not applicable from today’s point of view, then it has a different undertone than if you say there has been a certain desire in this direction, but it has not been fulfilled. Federal Minister! If you would have led in your statement, luck and chance, and then emphasize not only happiness, but also – and that without a doubt – a learning process in the executive and the use of conventional modern investigation methods would have led to success – that is, skill and skill, that is not to be acquitted – then, I think, you have forgotten one thing: It was ultimately also the courage and vigilance of two women who gave the decisive clue. [[Abg. Kiss: Isn't that banal what you say?]] I don't know if this is banal, deputies. Apparently a suspected perpetrator has been able to develop a crime series for years, without anyone having noticed it, even though he has not lived alone. If there is a vigilance in the population, then I say, just as someone who has received a letter bomb, thank you very much for this vigilance and I am glad that there are people who ask for a review in such incidents. Otherwise, they always criticize when such things are suppressed. So here it seems to have been done correctly, whatever it is: by instinct, by vigilance and also certainly by a proper portion of personal courage. I ask you what it looks like to be rewarded and whether it would be time for the decisive reference to actually hand over the awarded reward. I come to the very last point, and again the circle concludes with my question: What does today's debate bring us, except that it has indeed raised the danger that perhaps the procedure could give rise to the impression that the inconsistency is in danger or that a pre-condemnation occurs? . I want this process to be managed efficiently and that not the least such suspicion exists in the room and that the procedure can also be concluded. But I would like to ask you once again, also with regard to the calls for proposals and, in particular, with regard to the comments made by Mr Stadler: What does it bring and what does it lead to? – I have to say one thing: I stand firm because I have always been politically convinced of this, on the basis of professional and non-professional immunity, as it is enshrined in the legal bases. I will not even be able to shake words like those of Mr Stadler's in this regard in my conviction. But if Stadler says here at the speaker's desk that the bomb terror has been politically shamelessly instrumentalized, I must say that this has been done by a single party, namely the Freedom Party, and in particular by Mr Stadler. There have been eight questions by this spring concerning the colleague Stoisits, who has himself received a letter bomb, in which she is pushed into the darkness of this crime. This is of the same abstraction and impertinence, just as you made Mr Marizzi the head of the Russian mafia and the client of murders yesterday, and today apparently the ex-Bundeskanzler Vranitzky. That's from the same abstraction! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] But apparently they come – and this does not seem to be a coincidence again – in connection with people, Austrians and Austrians who have a foreign name. And since, Mr Stadler, we have always said – and in my claim, which I have also said several times in this House, I remain because it corresponds to the facts –: No one makes anyone of the Freedom Party the accusation of direct participation in this crime. In any case, I have not been able to say "to other offences" since Mr Rosenstingl. No one blames you for condoning or condoning this crime in any form, but I blame you very much for preparing the ground with your permanent theses of xenophobicity, incitement to some dark machinations, even in the area of representatives of the political system, so that, as the tip of the iceberg, such culprits can develop, probably severely disturbed disturbed, because here apparently the barrier to which the inconspicuousness reaches has been greatly reduced. You cannot actually lose a political responsibility or co-responsibility in this case.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e9558	The next speaker is Mrs Perfuss. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e9579	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning of my speech, I would like to express my sympathy for those who have been hit by this series of terror, for friends and relatives who have lost close to them due to this terrible act and who still suffer from this act today, as well as for the parents and relatives of Franz Fuchs, who are going through difficult times. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We must keep in mind that people had to die or were seriously injured when we discussed this issue. Behind that, there is eternality, combined with intolerance and contempt for human beings, as Mrs Petrovic said earlier. I can only underline Mrs Petrovic's statement. I would like to thank the Austrian executives, the Austrian judicial authorities, the experts and experts who made it possible for the arrest of Franz Fuch, especially those of the Leibnitzer Gendarmerie officials, who were the first to be involved – one was even injured. But thanks also to the Austrian population, which has not lost faith in security in our country in the last few years when our Republic was plagued by this incredibly terrible series of terrors. Franz Fuchs has finally achieved a goal: He – however – goes into the history of this republic, at least in criminal history, if the perpetrator can be shown to him. Since this man is from my region, I want to deal with Franz Fuchs in particular. Much has been speculated about who is capable of such suspicious and common criminal acts. As Mr Schlögl said in his speech, the index chain indicates that Franz Fuchs is the perpetrator. The courts will examine this and ultimately also judge it. Who is this man Franz Fuchs? What motivation did he have? – The suspect Franz Fuchs is described as intelligent, highly gifted, perfectistic and with a rigid but false sense of justice. He wanted to become a nuclear physicist and certainly had a certain talent for it. But it should be different. His wishes and ideas were probably always overly high, and the reality was probably disillusioning for him. The claims to themselves and to the others became higher and higher and led to frustrations, which eventually made him the person he is now, as psychological advice shows. A school friend of Franz Fuchs from my city writes that he was already in school as a cosmopolitan thinker and self-breader. He says everything that came from him was kind of weird. With his knowledge, he wanted to surpass examiners and was influenced by law enforcement, as Professor Zeder wrote in the "Falter". After Matura's career, the highly gifted performance fanatic captivated his professional future, disintegrated himself from the environment, and took his own world, characterized by hatred and pseudohistorical knowledge. The further he was away from his environment, the more damnable he seemed to be the happiness of the middle-sized to quote the school friend again. – This is certainly only the attempt of an explanation, the understanding of outsiders. A person with mental deficits can experience a personal improvement through structured enemy images, say psychiatrists. We should give this to think. Franz Fuchs certainly has mental deficits, but in addition he also believes in a hostile, racist ideology: an ideology that has not lost anything in Austria because it is based on enemy images. On this point I note that, unfortunately, current policy is very often used as an enemy image. Let us take care of the language that some people use in this House. Is it not often a language of enemy images, exclusion and simplification: here are the meek ones, there the lazy ones? Above all, after yesterday's debate, but also after the start of the debate on this item on the agenda, I wonder whether the signals we send out from politics do not make enemy images socially viable. [[Abg. Böhacker: Read your speech!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! I wish that these anti-life pictures will soon be out of place, and I hope that we will start in this House today and now. [[Abg. Ing. Nutbaumer: You have the enemy image!]] Mr Stadler. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Stadler, for his
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e9638	Next speaker is Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e9660	Ladies and gentlemen! To my previous speaker, Mrs Perfuss, about the words that fall here in Parliament. I would like to say the following: You always believe, if you just use the right word, then the world will change. – Once you change yourself, the world will also change, and then the words will change! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] What came out of this discussion yesterday from this swamp of the Social Democratic side, which you call "biotope", is what is to be condemned, but not the words – even the hard words – that are needed in connection with them. [[Abg. Dr. Stippel: From your side!]] [[New condolences with the liberals.]] Much of the misunderstandings also come from your side, which was shown here yesterday, can only be referred to with very fine words. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to return to the report of the Minister of the Interior. It has turned out that those who wanted to make a debt assignment in a certain direction in connection with the letter bomb attacks are very bad losers. And this includes Mrs Petrovic. For in an unusually staggering speech, she could hardly hide her disappointment at the fact that the FPÖ could not be sheltered in connection with the letter bomb attacks. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In the course of her disappointment, she even completely forgot what did not exist for suspicions and misdemeanors when it was not yet established that it was a spider that made these letter bombs. If Mrs Petrovic wants to distance himself completely, I must help her memory of the jumps and remind her of what has not been done in her group against us in debt allocations. For example, in December 1993, Ms Petrovic said that the person who contributes to such violent applications is that bombs are being shipped cannot be freed from responsibility – and that is why she clearly meant the FPÖ. Mrs Stoisits said that the spiritual authorship of the letter bombs is to be sought in the FPÖ and her nearby circles. – This was what the immigration spokesperson Stoisits said on 5 May. ==References== Mrs Stoistis also said, even more serious and in a really very ugly language, which she otherwise always tries to sue and exterminate, in October 1994: Now the brown bottom set of society dares to get out of the holes, encouraged by those who present it on the great political stage, and tries to spread fear and terror by all means against those who intervene in this country for humanity. These are the Greens, these are the ones who constantly call for the verbal struggle to improve! These are the ones who have made continuous diffamations towards the Free! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But it wasn't just the greens. Mr Cap also said in June 1995: The right-wing extremist and xenophobic background of the letter bomb terrorism is to be found at the FPÖ. – Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr Leikam said that no Social Democratic has brought the Freeman into the vicinity of the right-wing extremist bombs. – That is not at all true. That's why it's outrageous. Of course, you are disappointed today that it was not the liberals that were not the freedom-related circles that practiced the letter bomb attacks. As I said, It was a spider that obviously would have been held back by nothing and no one. You must finally take note of this, and you should apologize, Mr Cap, Mrs Stoistis, Mrs Petrovic. Please at last have the size and apologise to the liberals for your monsterices in the past! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Minister! You have presented the report, and I also see why: They are pleased that it has succeeded in clarifying a really horrendous series of criminal acts. I am glad – also in the interests of our executives – that such a good performance has been achieved. But, Minister, we must not forget what happened in the background or as a accompanying appearance. Pans, abuses have been revealed and completely false political assumptions have been made. For example, the shooting expert says that many traces have been destroyed or not processed at the right time or have not been properly honored. I can remember: In Oberwart you've said great things, there are fingerprints pointing to the culprit. Then it turned out that the only fingerprint available was from the senior army official. Of course, such a thing must not happen. Another expert says: At the beginning of the campaign, we were faced with very bad conditions. There was no computer at all, there were no devices at all to check and analyze the electronics of the bombs. With each new letter bomb case, says the expert, the shortcomings became clearer. The executive did not even have the minimum requirements available to determine in such a causa. I mean, you have to keep this in mind. I know that the accusation is not very fair to you, Mr Minister, because you were still in another political function at the time, but one has to point out that we have to be prepared for such cases. We must not be satisfied if we are up-to-date with the technology that we need for the current crime, but we must also think ahead of it. This is extremely important in the field of internal security. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Minister, there is something that concerns not only the past, but also the present: The huge competitive thinking of the individual organizations, the special groups and special commissions that exist in your ministry has done a great deal of damage in the investigation of the letter bomb attacks. For example, at the pipe bomb in Klagenfurt: Until finally the right officials with the appropriate expertise have arrived at the crime scene, two days have passed because the Security Directorate Klagenfurt did not want specialists from Vienna to arrive. The local police authorities have also resisted it. And this competitive thinking still exists. There are also these commissions, the individual subgroups that are formed on every occasion – hardly a new problem arises, you are already forming a group, a separate Commission – of which, of course, you want to record every success. In the course of this, there is a huge competition. One group does not know what the other is doing, there is a lack of information. I think you really have to see that there is order that there is a flow of information, because otherwise, You and your many groups and subgroups, Mr. Minister. I really mean that this still plays a very important role in reality. But I would also like to say a few words about the political background. Mr Minister, I believe that in the future it must be prevented from happening such things as they happened in the letter bomb causa that, for example, a perpetrator's profile, which might have led to the perpetrator's investigation, is simply located in the desk drawer for a year, because the minister responsible has said for political reasons, that must not be published. Otherwise, the political goal of bringing the FPÖ to the vicinity of the right-wing extremists or the letter bomb attacks would have failed! There is a need to take precautions. I would like again to quote an expert who said that it is really a criminalistic "speech performance" that the perpetrator's profile had to be published in a book, although it is already located in a desk drawer in the ministry. I think that your chief officials should also have the backbone to say, in such a case, in which it is clearly an illegal instruction, no, such a mission they do not carry out. – This is absolutely necessary in the interests of security. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Kier: They're pragmatized, the top officials! They don't have to be afraid!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say once again to those who have no memories today that Mr Sika himself has said that he has been obliged not to publish the perpetrator's profile first and, secondly, to identify in a certain direction. Mr. Director-General Sika said: If I had said in 1994 that there were no neonazis, then I would have been hanged on a lantern. – There you can see with what purpose this whole procedure has been conducted. I come to the conclusion. I ask all those who have continuously suspected the FPÖ to apologize today. They should have the size of taking the floor and saying that all the suspicions that the FPÖ has brought to the close of the letter bomb terrorism were inconceivable, and we apologise for them.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e9755	The next speaker is Mr Platter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e9776	Mr President. Estimated Minister! High house! Many months, even years of letter bomb terrorism, the citizens of our country were held in breath. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we can give a warning because the security officers' investigations on this most terrible series of attacks in the Second Republic have been completed and today the full notice has been returned to the court. Like some colleagues before me, I would like to thank, of course, all the security officials, but also the German army experts for their work, as an ÖVP Federal Supervisor of the Executive. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! As part of this debate today, I would like to speak on three points which I think are worthy of discussion. First of all, modern investigation methods, grid detection. Although these modern methods of investigation, the grid investigation, were not directly crucial to the success of the executives, it is now undisputed – and this has been said by the Minister today – that the decision-making of these new methods of investigation has caused uncertainty in the alleged bombing attacks, which has led to mistakes and ultimately to his arrest. There was a lot of criticism in the field of modern methods of investigation, there was a lot of polemics, and this lost valuable time, which led to the delay in the introduction of modern methods of investigation. If it were the case after the EIA, there would have been a much earlier decision, and there would not have been this delay, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On the second point: attempted political assignment of the bomb culprit. I can recall a number of debates here in the House, in which there is no doubt that the series of attacks has been tried to see as political terror and in addition to assigning an extreme corner. I am really glad that this has not been true. There is no doubt that politics has not proved to be a good service with this depriving charlatan of political adjudication. Ladies and gentlemen! The population, which has also contributed to the arrest of the bomber by means of evidence, has nothing at all left for such conflicts, as was partly the case here today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to say with all clarity here that the EIA has never tried to polemise in this sad criminal history. We said: Let the executive determine, let the executive investigate and work properly, far away from any political polemization, far away from any political assignment! [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] Today's debate, ladies and gentlemen, has shown that we, the EIA, are right to use for ourselves, to work objectively, objectively, and to make good arguments on security issues. Ladies and gentlemen! The last point: Individuals. In recent months, we have always suspected that this is a single offender. This presumption has now also been confirmed by the investigation of the executive. The former Federal Minister, Dr. One, did not deserve any laurels because of his unilateral approach to this matter. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Bravo!]] The fact that Fuchs was arrested by this individual culprit is certainly in no way to be attributed to a merit or to the preliminary work of the Minister. He took the thing away. Because of his one-sided investigations, he has definitely dragged the matter towards group culprits. This is his political responsibility. Consequences have already been drawn. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion: We are all glad that this terrible crime has been resolved. However, I believe that crime prevention and crime control should be given even greater priority in our country; human resources should be used to make a shift of priority to criminal service, additional equipment in the criminal service, and it should be noted that a number of things have happened in recent months, and in particular through the continuous, intensive training of security forces, a special priority should be given to crime prevention and control. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Minister! This is yours and this is our mission in the interests of the security of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e9863	The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e9898	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! There were some interesting considerations that we heard during the discussion. I would like to turn again to the report by the Federal Minister and to highlight a few aspects. On the aspect of individual citizenship: I think it is important that this is not dogmatic. I would ask you to take into account that, after Mr Fuchs was arrested, a letter bomb, which we know, according to the reports we have read, was found in Graz, even if by another type of typology, that its potential danger would have been much greater if it had exploded than that of the earlier series of letter bombs. This means that the problem itself is not completely resolved, even if perhaps the series associated with Mr Fuchs is now broken by his arrest. I don't see any cross-links between these two type of letter bombs either. But that means that the phenomenon itself is not complete. Sometimes I have the feeling that the public believes because Mr Franz Fuchs is in prison because a full announcement exists because the charge is coming, bomb violence is no longer possible in the future. I therefore believe that this individual culprit theory has its shadow side that it allows misleading conclusions. Apart from that, I am not quite sure whether, in fact, all that is ultimately connected to Mr Fuchs can be done physically alone. But that is another matter, and that is perhaps a question of the justification of the criminal proceedings. Another aspect that seems important to me: Federal Minister! In this respect, I also link your report with the speech by Mrs Partik-Pablé. You have made statements about the situation. They have stated on the grounds that the hearings have shown that the purpose of the confessional letter was to incite fear among the population. The background of the attacks should have been minorities and xenophobia, as well as Germanism and rejection of state institutions. Now I ask you, Minister of State: How do you describe such positions when you put them in a typology? The fact that Mr Fuchs is apparently a non-organized person, so he has not acted in organizations, does not change the fact that he had quite clear political positions, though still as a perplexed person. This, moreover, makes things dangerous and life-threatening, because strange positions have many people who are not yet necessarily violent. This difference is important to me. I believe that this will also be something which will then be worked out in the context of the judicial criminal proceedings, which will be public, so that some of what is rejected with indignation today will be traced back to the hard core, namely that it is a matter of certain political positions which Mr Fuchs has tried to enforce with totally inadequate and also criminal means, perhaps with a certain flow of power or security. This environmental issue is not sustainable from the table. You don't need to look at Saxony-Anhalt. For the Rasterfahndung: That is the real reason why I spoke. Federal Minister! You're either sitting in your civil service, or you're trying to argue retrograd. As you described in your report, as the instrument that should have been successful, it could not have taken place at all in the necessary time. [[Federal Minister Mag. Schlögl speaks to an official from his place of business.]] – Dr. Heindl turns you off, Minister of State! He may do so if he brings you documents on my contribution to the debate. For school education as a characteristic of the Rasterfachung: Which methods, from which sources and from which databases with systematic access possibilities would you have filtered out the masters or the special training level in the field of electronics? From which databases and according to which systems can this feature be provided in a rowdy manner? – Individual knowledge in the field of inorganic chemistry – is this feature that is griddy about the male population between 35 and 60 years of age? Yes or no? - That's where I have my doubts. Or the fact that one can stand in an employment relationship on the basis of a contract of employment is, with confidence, something even humorous. You know how intensive we are discussing what work contracts are and what they are not. It is believed that, in the understanding of the Director-General for Public Security Sika, whose manuscript I recognize, a person who is not in a fixed, time-consuming employment relationship. – But that doesn’t mean a contract basis, or is the semantic in your speech? - I accept that, it's bought. Then tell me the following: In what databases do you find names of people to whom the feature applies that they are not permanently in a proper, time-consumingly binding employment relationship – which is grid-compatible, data-compatible and at all, without data protection regulations already being violated? That is why what has been said to you in this report by the ladies and gentlemen of your House to argue, lastly the Director-General for Public Security, an "argument door" because that could not have been the case. Unless – but I almost exclude that – you have at some point begun to collect all this data in any database that no one knows about. But that's not what I'm gonna do. Therefore, I believe that at best the thesis can be left – at least – that the perpetrator was under-lyingly nervous about the possibilities of a grid arrest – subjectively misleading. At best! But an accelerated introduction of the Rasterfachung would not have taken you any step further – unless all that we heard in the debate about the introduction of the Rasterfachung on the protection of the Intimsphere et cetera was freely invented; and I do not think so again. That is why the real scandal of this speech is that there is a Director-General for Public Security who is one of the officials who have feared. We've heard this a few times today: The officials were so afraid of you, your predecessor and your predecessor, that they could not do what they wanted. One of these pragmatized officials, these unannounceable officials, who were afraid, has built a "türken". Such a person, I think, should at some point have to be publicly justified, for I am tired of always hearing through the mouth of the Minister things that others write to him – logically – but which do not even stand half a day of an objective review. Because if you show this to any people who are even more concerned with data than I am as a member of the Data Protection Council, then they do not even laugh at this argument. It's so unscrupulous that it scares. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e9977	The next speaker was Mr Jarolim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e9998	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been said a lot on the subject today, and it has also been discussed that both the police authorities and the judicial authorities have acted with the highest efficiency. On this occasion, I would perhaps like to pay attention to the question - now there is the salary debate within the judiciary - that one must look at the individual case, namely that a single judge, namely Council of Nara, has shown an enormous commitment to work, that he has worked far beyond what is normally the case, that he has worked through a large number of files, that he has compiled two folders, as one could see on television yesterday, and that he has now completed his act, which is extremely comprehensive and complex, and which probably ensures the best possible preparation. As part of the current salary discussion, we therefore have to consider these aspects and ask whether such benefits are actually covered by the normal salary scheme if the level of entry into force – the Nauta Council has about the entry level – is net of 20 000 S. As far as the subject matter is concerned. With regard to the other contributions to the discussion, in particular to the repeated calls from the Freedom Party, to express excuses for immense suffering that would have been given to you, I must be surprised at a little and remind you, in the light of Mr Kier, that what Mr Fuchs has given to the world of thought in various letters is not only likely, but certainly best to accommodate in your spectrum, ladies and gentlemen! [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Xenophobia, manifested by various popular desires, exclusions and radicalizations in the form of how it is based on the division of Mr Fuch, ladies and gentlemen, you cannot assign any party to this House other than yours. Those who followed the debate yesterday could experience that an incredible derailment and humiliation of their own group happened, ladies and gentlemen. I assume that you stand up to a certain degree of propriety. Today, Mr Stadler has made another round-the-clock move, which has dubiously voted for me, because I no longer know which consciousness is still governing colleagues in Stadler. If he makes himself and connects the murder of the Russian mafia with the chancellor Vranitzky, I must say: That's the worst thing, that's the poorest thing this country and this house has heard for a long time! Let us guard against that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! You will have to note that the greatest scandal of this House since its existence – you always have bad arguments by the hand, ladies and gentlemen; we know that, and there you can now cry out loud, but that will not help in the matter – depends on you, ladies and gentlemen! [[Interlocutory calls to the liberals]] To the solution that was found last night: I must say honestly to you that again shakes me because it goes to the limits of taxability and to the limits of constitutionality. What are you doing? . You say that there should be a personal liability of a single Member so that the damage can be prevented in the future. This is grotesk, because if you have a banker who has nothing, then you won't benefit from this personal liability either. This argument goes totally into the fog and beyond any provision. Ladies and gentlemen! They said -- that's the succus -- that's what comes out -- We, the FPÖ, are not in a position to say that the people who work in the House for us, who are also politically active, are so decent that they do not also do what has now been done by Rosenstingl, and that is why we have to take it to the Canadians, so we will cut down the free mandate, ladies and gentlemen – that is the scandal – because we do not believe that the people sitting in the house are actually decent. Therefore, they are obliged to make declarations, which is why the free mandate is undermined. – This is not just a constitutional and illegal case, but a scandal and speaks for your attitude, ladies and gentlemen! You should be ashamed of this proposal! [[Congratulations with SPÖ, representatives of the ÖVP and the Liberal Forum.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] I come to the conclusion. I am sorry that on this occasion we had to cook up what you have done about undemocracy and how you define your concept of democracy. I'm just saying: It cannot concern itself with such aspects. We are all invited to oppose it, because what you want to do has something to do with what we no longer want, what we have experienced and what we will fight. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e10087	The next speaker is Mrs Stoisits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e10109	Dobar then, poštovane lady i gospodo! Dobar then, gospodin Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Minister! I have had more contact with Austrian security authorities since December 1993, when I was naturally unsolicited with letter bomb terrorism in Austria than I have ever had my entire life before and when I hope I will ever have again in my life. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Löschnak.]] – No, but, Mr former Federal Minister, no citizen likes to contact the police, because, if you have contact with the police, you are either suspected by the police or because you may have to provide information as a victim of a crime or crime. [[Abg. Leikam: Why? I don't have a problem with the police!]] – I say this now so untechnical, because I explain it from my feeling. I didn't like to have contact with the gentlemen of the EBT and the Special Commission, but not because I don't appreciate the gentlemen – a lady has never accommodated me – but because the whole drum was unpleasant for me. My environment has been determined for many years and in a sense is still determined by fear, uncertainty and questions: What is it? When will something happen again? Who's going to happen again? Why – that is an essential question for me to this day too – me? Why members of my circle of friends, my family, who are put in fear and terror? Why – and this is what the Federal Minister has said today in his statements – as a person from a group of people who, considering all those who have come in connection with it and have been brought together, are distinguished by a certain – I say it now – bourgeois and then in the narrowest sense political commitment? For me, this phase of concern and uncertainty, Mr Federal Minister, is not yet over. It may then be able to end if the suspect is legally condemned. And, of course, that's what I'm saying out of my belly, if he'd like to admit, he's the culprit, then we could call him a culprit, and he'd no longer be just the suspected culprit. That would be a result that takes away a lot of uncertainty and fear. I am pleased, though, on the one hand, about the report you have presented to us today, because it also includes passages which, from your point of view, are quite critical of the investigation activities, the information work of the security authorities. That was quite self-critical. I have personally experienced what mistakes or problems there have been, and I am because I have experienced it, with the result that you are now delivering with this complete display, insofar as now a certain kind of anxiety is no longer given as before. Federal Minister! On the other hand, what I have missed very much, which is still free to catch up with you, is to explain to those who have done exactly what they have been doing for years or since October last year, namely to talk about spiders, as Mrs Colleague Partik-Pablé, who takes a suspected culprit with the term "spinner" and draws no conclusions from it at all. This is actually what I would have expected of you in your statement, namely the background to this climate and to this situation, why it could have been a criminal case like this one that has occupied Austria for many years and is still busy. Ladies and gentlemen! If today – and I do not expect it from the Freedom Party at all – I am already so blatant that I know that no material contributions can be expected from her – it is always said that there are people who have to apologise, then I already knew someone who would really be apologised, namely, the party keeper of the Freedom Party, who, after four people died in charge, knew quite well that this had nothing to do with arms scrapping or drug offences and that it was not a feud. He is the only one who has expressed a concrete suspicion of action and accusations over these years. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Teresa! Teresija!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I do not need to talk to my colleague Schweitzer, because he who has cemeterys in his circle of friends, may not be silent here and not be making intermediate calls. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Mr Stoisits! Who's on the 8th? - No. - No. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] Ladies and gentlemen! I have looked at exactly what I have said in recent years in connection with letter bomb terrorism in Austria, with what spiritual environment and what intellectual authorship. [[Abg. May. ==References== February 1995! You can read this in the minutes!]] Everything I said, I would repeat literally today, exactly literally. Because, ladies and gentlemen, this is what will continue to do to us, it should come to a conviction – that is to say, independent courts – from Franz Fuchs, who today is to be described as a suspected perpetrator. [[Calls and counter-calls between honourable Members Mag. Schweitzer and oillingers.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Whether it was a culprit, if Fox had helpers or not, we don't know. You, Minister, have said: You don't know, everything is possible. – I wish he had none. Nothing I would wish for more than that he had none and that he really was and really is a single culprit – whether he is called Franz Fuchs or not. But the fact is that this country has changed over the last few years. That's what has to do with us. The climate and the situation in which we are all today – especially as politicians and politicians – are different than at the time, that is what will and should remain a topic for all of us in the future. That is why I also believe that this has not been the last report that the Federal Minister will give us on the subject of letter bomb-causa; perhaps on these specific cases, but not on the fact that – now I am speaking with the words of Mr. Klubobmann Stadler – there are "triggers", "disinformants" and "Denunciants" – and I do not use these terms as he meant, but as they actually are to be understood – and I also experience this more or less daily when I open my post. This is an issue which the alleged suspect Franz Fuchs has caused, namely that locks have opened up and that it is nothing special today to write letters to politicians, politicians, citizens, citizens, activists and activists of human rights movements, in which they are clearly expressed. This does not have to be extreme in law, as Mrs Petrovic described it. Very "righteous citizens" write us letters and clearly tell us their opinions. This is something that has changed in recent years. This lock has been opened. There are clearly those who create a certain spiritual climate, favor it, and continue to do so. Today's debate is the best proof of this. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The gentlemen of the Special Commission, the gentlemen of the EBT, but also the gentlemen of the State Police, and above all those who have supported not only me, but also other people over the years, such as the Gendarmerie and the police, who not only gave me but also very many other personal protection, but also the Security Directorate in Vienna, are due thanks, for they have contributed to reducing some personal uncertainty on the one hand, and on the other hand, to the success of the campaign. [[Abg. Leikam: Ladies are there too!]] Of course, my respect is also valid for Mr. Dr. Nauta, whom I had opportunity to meet. The conversation with him has been very informative for me. It has shown that in his work he has based his investigations and considerations on a very broad spectrum to find the key to this crime series. It is therefore my concern, ladies and gentlemen, to say the following: The illusion that you are now building in Austria in connection with the Rasterfachung is something I can't blame you, not that you want to present this to us, but all the facts that have already been described here by Mrs. Dr. Petrovic, but above all by Mr Kier, are really talking about the fact that if you are already by chance, luck, but also by continuing to insist on a line which you have developed, as you have said, you have a success in relativizing this success yourself by trying to highlight a fundamental right-wing instrument once again. Mr Federal Minister, given that the work of the security authorities has ended today, you do not have to do so at all. I think that this debate has now been used by you in a certain way, because I see no reason to do so in the face of one day that is a very positive day for you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e10228	The next speaker is Mr Franz Lafer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e10253	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Jarolim, we are already used to it from the last plenary session of the House, as you are doing with your hatred of the liberals. If you claim here that Franz Fuchs would be accommodated in the spectrum of the liberals with his ideology, you can see that in a similar way, or with your claims you can also be easily assigned to the caps and consorts, which is the basis of the protocol of 8. ==References====External links== [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr. Cap then addressed the address of the Freedom Party: "There is no ideological mesh. I mean, if one pursues such a policy, one must also feel the criticism that one is the true destabilizer." Or another quote: "The true, spiritual pioneer is in your ranks, and you have to think about whether you want to go along with this path." - Quote. Mr Leikam, this is about you, because you said earlier that you and your group had never said anything like it that you would never have thrown such things to the Freedom Party. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Leikam: This was not related to the letter bomb causa! That wasn't this discussion! Don't push anything in the shoes!]] Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to divide this debate into two components: one material and one political component. The objective component is that the executive has succeeded in becoming guilty of a perpetrator who has committed violent crimes, such as they have not been in Austria for a long time. In this context, the special thanks to those who have really worked with the greatest motivation on the fact that the arrest of Franz Fuchs has come. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] However, these criminal acts have also led the executive to be equipped with the technical means it has not yet been available. Especially in the investigations in the letter bomb causa, these were absolutely necessary, and today the standard is at least so high in this respect that one can really do something here. Federal Minister! However, the time is ripe for the executive to be equipped with much more technical means, and I hope that you will continue to do so, so that this will be the case in the future. Does something have to happen to ensure that the executive is equipped with the appropriate technical tools? The second component is political. My colleague, Dr. Partik-Pablé, has already said that there has been a drawer in relation to the perpetrator's profile, that is, your predecessor as Minister of the Interior, Caspar Einm, has blocked this criminal profile in his desk for political reasons. I also admire Mr Platter when he addresses his criticism of the former Minister of the Interior and says that all of this is in his fault. Also the fact that, for example, Paul Kiss was still on the 6th. The following is remarkable – I quote – in October 1997: He, Caspar One, has the sole responsibility that the suspected letter bomber could not be captured earlier. For more than a year and a half, One has suppressed and shubbled the perfectly right profile of the perpetrator for political reasons, because the conclusions of this criminal profile were not in line with his political intentions. For one thing, then, the sole fault is that the alleged perpetrator could continue to work for years unblemished. - Quote. The 'fascinate' is, however, that, if an application is made by the liberals to ensure that the former Minister of the Interior A review of its political responsibilities may be carried out, against which it is voted. That's the regret of this whole statement. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! Of course, there are also enormous costs associated with the letter bomb causa. I know what you are going to answer me, because I have already asked you in the Committee on the Interior how much you have to count these costs that were necessary to clarify these criminal acts. The political responsibility will also be to look for the cost of this crime profile being blocked for a year and not made available to the public. This is money for taxpayers, with whom it has really been handled carelessly! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Federal Minister, I ask you to explain to us here whether you can count these costs at what level they are moving! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e10327	The next speaker is Mr Kostelka. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e10349	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr President. In yesterday's "Time in Picture 2", a certain Mr. Jürgen Roth – obviously in the intention of raising the edition of his book just published – made a very easy remark, which would have been a service to which Mr. Federal Chancellor a. D. Vrannitzky would have assigned a representative of the Ostmafia in Austria. He loosely referred to his own book. I have now looked through this book and find in it the quoted passage. I would like to make a literal presentation to the House of Lords: "On the other hand, the "admiral" in the Alpine Republic has best relations – and now the alleged representative comes." [[Abg. Mr Partik-Pablé: Mr President! That's not the theme! Call it!]] [[Abg. Leikam: And what did the Stadler do?]] I quote: "That's why it's actually surprising that these used nothing when he sought Austrian citizenship." – So the relationships can't have been that good. And on top of that: "There lies in the archive of his company" – that is, the company of this representative – "a letter to Franz Vrannitzky..." – So not Vranitzky wrote this letter, but this "boy" addressed a letter to the then Federal Chancellor of the Republic. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: (in the direction of the liberals) You have opened the discussion yourself! You don't have to complain!]] In this letter it says: "Dear Mr. Federal Chancellor! The Council of Ministers of the Republic of Kazakhstan recommends your best and would like to take advantage of the opportunity to express its satisfaction with your fruitful visit to the Republic of Kazakhstan in April of this year." [[Abg. Aumayr: Is that part of the letter bombs?]] I quote: "After writing, it was about cooperation in the field of tourism. It also talked about the 'appropriation of the Austrian export credit line' for Kazakhstan." [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: On the matter!]] – corresponding contracts have also been concluded. Quote: "And now, the Kazakhstan Council of Ministers considers the use of the Austrian export credit lines for Kazakhstan appropriate and asks you to support this programme. Highly esteemed S. Abishev, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan.” [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: This has nothing to do with letter bombs at all!]] That's all, ladies and gentlemen. To make a scandal out of it is very forward-looking in two ways: First of all, it is precipitous to increase the edition of the book that has just been published, and second, it is a very forward-looking – because of the circumstances understandable – distraction maneuver of the FPÖ. [[Prolonged calls to the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party! I say the following to you: If you do not otherwise have a say, then you will raise this appeal at least to a former Federal Chancellor of this Republic, who has provided excellent services for this country for ten years.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e10470	My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! It has been called for several times by a political group on the matter. It was under my chairmanship as President-in-Office – I have here the minutes ahead of me – for a few minutes on this question about yesterday's "time in Figure 2, about alleged Mafia contacts. It is not my idea of dealing with the Rules of Procedure that someone should be allowed to comment on this subject just because he is a member of a group, but that he should not have another group's opinion on the same subject. That is how the Rules of Procedure will not be handled in this House. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] . I would like to ask: no condolences, because these are decisions of the Bureau. There's no need for applause and no criticism. Next word: Mr Deputies out of office and now Federal Minister Mag. Schlögl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e10506	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to comment on some of the questions that directly concern the Causa. Mrs Petrovic asked me why I gave this report today. I am very grateful for the fact that Mrs Stoisits has already given the answer in a very impressive way. I would like to stress once again – it seems important to me that this is clearly said here – that: Of course, Mr Franz Fuchs is concerned with the presumption of innocence. My report has only served to explain to Parliament how the work of the executive is to solve this very crucial case in the Second Republic, which has been collected by the executive in recent months in indices and warrants and how the current state of the investigation is. This report is also necessary and important because it explains the completion of police investigations in the Causa bombings in Austria between 1993 and 1996. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In the direction of Mrs Petrovic, there is also a clear word: I have never claimed that the perpetrator does not represent legal radical theses. I have just said that it was originally found exclusively in the legal radical scene, and that has proved to be wrong. In my speech, however, I also made it very clear that the motives behind it clearly go towards xenophobia in the direction of xenophobia in the minority, show a very hostile attitude towards democracy. I think you should say this clearly: There is no party political background, but there is certainly a clear socio-political background. The perpetrator had clear political intentions with his actions, even if the suspicion of innocence is considered and he is to be described as a suspected perpetrator. It is also important to me - and I should also like to say this clearly - that if this case should be concluded by the Court of Justice, those who have contributed to the fact that we have come on the trail of the culprit will receive the corresponding reward. Finally, Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that what Mr Kier and also Mrs Stoisits have said is quite right. I am not an illusionist who believes that the Rasterfachung is an all-healing remedy, nor am I of the opinion that it should be the exclusive means of the Austrian executive. I even go so far as to say that I am not even sure whether we will get into the situation by 2001 – until then, according to the will of Parliament, the executive will have the opportunity to use this instrument – even once – I hope that it will not be the case. But especially in the case of the letter bombs, the grid search would have been a suitable means. As I said in my report, we would have had a rightful opportunity to come to the suspected perpetrator Franz Fuchs by means of the necessary conventional warrants and by means of new warrants in connection with the search for a grid. Due to the water analyses, we were able to limit the number of districts in Austria where the possible perpetrators could be found to seven. That would have been an essential tool for us. A second important point would have been training, and in this context we would have hoped to get corresponding data carriers from universities. Finally, we could have gotten data from the social security sector or from other areas – but this is always only possible if the court had agreed to what was just in preparation. Ladies and gentlemen! Summary: I believe that it was necessary and important to deliver to Parliament as a representative of the Austrian people, to the Austrian people a report on the outcome of police investigations in the Causa Franz Fuchs and the completion of the investigations on the letter bombs and bomb attacks in Austria, and I hope that the findings of the police who collected the executive will be the decisive basis for clarification of these terrible attacks and for a judicial conviction at the end of this year.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e10566	The next speaker is Mr Schweitzer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e10588	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Since "Karl im Glück" (Karl in Glück), Mr Kiss has described him as having been presented by chance to the suspected culprit Fuchs, I am not going to let go of the feeling that some colleagues here in the House are somehow disappointed disappointed that the game, which has worked so well with the Minister at the time, could not be continued. He was looking everywhere where nothing was to be found! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] They were disappointed that it was no longer possible to produce articles that contained clear debt allocations, to produce articles and consignments in which debt allocations were made again and again – once again, once more, less clearly – and then spread through the state-run broadcasting. Therefore, this disappointment, when Fuch's fate presented itself and the happy Karl the suspected perpetrator fell into his hands. Of course, the working group of socialist lawyers, the socialist jurists, immediately composed, Mr. Jarolim – he has preferred to go out again – in the law firm of Dr. Lansky, who is not an unknown person in many circles. ==References== July 1997 – the Protocol dates back to 18. August – it was put together – in addition to the new Judge Jarolim and colleague Hlavac – and discussed how to undermine independent justice a little socialist, so that in the future there will be more ways of playing again. At the time, you have considered "personnel policy" under the theme – and that is what the protocol says, Mr Jarolim – how the party can become more involved in independent justice. This is literally to be read in the minutes. You've been talking about it... [[Abg. Arbitrators: No, that’s not true!]] Mr Schieder! [[Abg. Arbitrators: Read it literally!]] The subject is human resources policy. It means: It is to be considered how the party can contribute even more than before. [[Abg. Arbitrators: But not in independent justice!]] – It’s about justice! [[Ironic cheerfulness of the speaker.]] [[Prolonged calls.]] Mr. Schieder! Let's stick to the record. A reform of the judicial service law is discussed. The starting point would be the legal practitioners. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That's where they change the law!]] There would be a more reasonable selection procedure to encourage young comrades to enter the judicial service. [[Abg. Arbitrator talks to a club worker.]] – Mr Schieder, you wanted me to quote, but then listen too! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is clearly about bringing young comrades to the front in independent justice. [[Intervocations at the SPÖ and at the Freeman's.]] At the suggestion of Gabriel Lansky, it is discussed how it can happen, for example, that in media law all bodies are blue, which in some cases is also detectable. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Where's the suit? You want to change the law so that socialists can be judges!]] [[Further calls.]] And then, Mr Jarolim – please, this sentence needs attention, colleague – the idea of carrying out a legal sociological investigation is born under the title: [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: The law should be amended immediately so that comrades become judges, that is the scandal!]] Judge and party book. Mr Jarolim, Judge and Party Book! [[Prolonged calls to the liberals and the SPÖ.]] Jarolim as a potter! – A new playground for the Socialists is to be opened.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e10744	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. 15. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (1099 and 1099 of the Supplements): Budgetary Support Act 1998 (1161 of Supplements) 16. Point Report and request of the Budget Committee on the draft federal law amending the 1992 Studienförderungsgesetz (1162 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e10785	We come to points 15 and 16 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. Is oral reporting desirable? – This is not the case, so we can go into the discussions at once. The first speaker is Mr Böhacker. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e10815	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! I would like to repeat the criticism I have already expressed in the Committee, namely that 19 have been completely unstructured, largely independent and different legislative instruments such as herb and beet, with this 1998 budget-accompanied law, a collection of legislative novels, the arch of which extends from the ÖIAG bond law on tax laws, the family tax compensation law to the acquisition of shares of Graz Köflflacher Bahn GmbH. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! This procedure is absolutely unbearable and, above all, unfair! [[Congratulations on Members of the Liberals.]] It is unfair to those positive opposition forces in this House who sincerely strive to cooperate in the treatment of government documents and to share responsibility. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I repeat my request again and again, namely that in future you should structure your government proposals accordingly by the Federal Government in order to allow the opposition to be treated properly and to make decisions. Focus – at least budgetaryly – on this government template is the family package. The fact that we need to discuss a family package again shows us clearly that the Federal Government has been unable to pursue a family-friendly tax policy for years. Result: 120,000 families are at or below the poverty line. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rosemarie Bauer.]] Mrs Colleague, 120 000 Austrian families! Every day those who fall below the poverty line become more! And you have the responsibility of the government parties! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: This is how the Rosenstingl has always spoken!]] Mrs. Colleague! It should also be noted that this government proposal will be unconstitutional at least in 1999 and will at least be unconstitutional from the year 2000. You explained to us in the committee that there was a positive examination by the Constitutional Service. To this end, I must say: Mr State Secretary! Federal Minister! This has not yet been said that there is constitutional conformity. Too often, the Constitutional Court has had to take corrective action in recent months and years – I only recall the inconsistency of the work contract, the minimum body tax, and the Constitutional Court has repeatedly abolished legislative bodies which the Constitutional Service has still equipped with a constitutional stamp. We liberals oppose this red and black flickwerk called family package our family tax division. This is because our model is constitutional and socially just. It counteracts the risk of poverty of the Austrian families, is manageable, women-friendly and is – and that is essential – voluntary. No one is forced to submit to the family division, but that is the decision of the powerful citizen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! It is extremely unfortunate that, if an opposition party is thinking in a constructive way, this federal government does not even endeavour to discuss or discuss the proposals for freedom of movement. In summary, the family package: There is absolutely no reason to rejoice in the joy of the Federal Government's espionage. That is absolutely not appropriate. Josef Bruckmoser has put it to the fore in the "Salzburger Nachrichten" – you can quote a lot from it, but the conclusion of this article is particularly interesting –: "If the families finally get something more in 1999 then that's not a gift, but just: Stolen family silver is returned. Too late and anyway only partially." – The area of family tax reform. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr State Secretary! I would also like to deal with two areas of tax legislation in the near future, namely the amendment of the § 89 Income Tax Act, which normalizes that in future all audit results will be automatically exchanged by local health insurance and wage tax audits. So far, this understanding procedure has only taken place in individual cases. You can say: That is all right, why not, why should dishonest taxpayers not be transferred? – Only the following, Minister of State: You stopped there half way. I therefore call for a step forward. Why does it still require several examinations of pay-related taxes – wage tax, social security, service contribution, municipal tax et cetera? Many, many tests! A classic overkilling takes place there! Why don't you go here and get an authority to check all the pay-related charges? Second claim: All pay-related charges must be paid only more in one place. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] There are many things you could simplify! Of course, my colleague. Thirdly, It will certainly be necessary to simplify the area of human resources clearance at last as it has been called for for for decades by many, by all the parties here in this House. The second area: Amendment of the VAT Act. A good practice, which has already been valid for almost ten years, has been taken from it. While it has so far been necessary to issue prior VAT applications only if the VAT has not been paid in full and not in due time, one now turns the spear and generally obliges all entrepreneurs to issue prior-tax applications, with the exception of those for which the Minister of Finance sets an exception by means of a regulation. It is particularly regrettable that this Regulation is intended to suggest that young entrepreneurs in the first year of the existence of their business should be affected by the obligation to register – and that under the title of the founding offensive, the promotion of young entrepreneurs. This will bring you back to bureaucracy, which will cost both the economy and the administration enormously. However, they will not be able to hold back the classic tax fraud. Ladies and gentlemen! In the 1998 budget accompanying law, the Liberal Group will give its approval to Article II, amendment to the Financial Balance Act, and the increase in family support.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e10914	The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Mertel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e10936	Mr President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! On the occasion of the first reading, we Social Democrats have already mentioned that this budget is a further step towards a quantum leap in family support. Today we can gladly point out that the decision-making of this family package, i.e. the budget accompanying legislation, actually makes this quantum leap. After the 1992 tax reform, this family package is the largest package for Austrian families. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On the occasion of the budget hearing in Parliament, Wifo expert Dr. Ewald Walterskirchen has criticised this package. He pointed out that Austria was already second in France before the package for family support and will now be the first to land with the family package. He has also asked the criticism whether we can afford this family support at all. Ladies and gentlemen! As a family politician, I assume that Austria as the third largest country must be able to afford this family support. [[Congratulations to Dr. Sonja Moser and Rauch-Kallat.]] For the SPÖ, the welfare and interests of children as well as the financial security of families are at the heart of politics. We have managed to expand the benefits for families significantly without increasing the budget deficit planned without introducing new taxes without leaving the way of budget consolidation. Austria's families will receive more with this reform in 2000 500 S per month and child, in the year 6 000 S per child. We Socialists – and I would like to mention this specifically – have always shown, regardless of the knowledge of the Constitutional Court, that a reform of family support is necessary, namely a reform that benefits young families, the low-income families and the low-income multi-child families, and this has been successful. For the weakest families there will be an additional funding of 400 S per month from the third child. According to experts, 120 000 families benefit from this scheme. The single-earner and single-earner withdrawal amount is fully included in the negative tax scheme – up to 5 000 S. With these new measures, family support has for the first time received a significant social component and has become more socially balanced, but also more effective, since the family support for disabled children is also gradually increased from 1 650 S to 1 800 S by 2000 in order to help, in particular, those families who need this assistance in particular. I agree that we Social Democrats would have wished us an even greater social balance, even more distinct social differentiation in the promotion of families. Unfortunately, this was not possible under the circumstances. Of course, I would like to give the Minister of the Family quite a lot of attention to the findings he made today in a press release: Only under difficult circumstances – against persistent resistance from the ÖVP – could we bring this family package to the ÖVP. - I'll give it to him. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Müller.]] And we are proud of this result that we have been able to bring to the ÖVP! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to say one thing, Mr Family Minister: In negotiations, it does not mean how you expect a package to be presented, and the negotiator has to swallow it. Negotiating means agreeing on something, but not without taking something up and contenting yourself with it without If and But. We have resisted your proposals. We have resisted so that this reform does not become a reform for the best earners. We didn't want reform, with the rich getting richer. We wanted to do something for low-income families, we wanted a more for low-income families, and this has been achieved by a multi-child supplement from the third child and by increasing the negative tax. The SPÖ has repeatedly stressed that family policy does not only have a fiscal aspect, that children are not just tax deposits, but that family policy is fully visible, but above all in the context of improving the situation of the professionals in that country, improving the situation of single parents. That's why the federal government's additional work is going to be done – in addition! – 600 million schillings will be made available as a contribution to the development of childcare facilities, and this amount will double the countries. At the same time, the coalition partners also agreed that a number of important additional measures, as Mrs Gehrer mentioned in the Committee, will also be put in place to improve the situation of the professionals, in line with the development of the family compensation fund. These include the increase in the pension allowance, the part-time allowance, the part-time pension, the increase in the allowance for the benefit of the family, the extension of the family counseling, in particular in the direction of advice to re-enters in working life, the increase of the funds for the family hard-time compensation fund with new guidelines for the use, school- and apprentice-free travel for those residing outside their home country, simply said home travel aid to improve the special emergency scheme especially for single parents and an improvement in the maintenance advance payments. I am very confident that we will also find a solution to these conditions. I know that we had to reduce benefits with the consolidation packages 1995 and 1996 so that the family compensation fund would become debt-free again. I believe that this was an important and necessary step, because high deficits in the family tax compensation fund must be covered by the general budget. After all, this would mean nothing but additional loads for the families. However, I am also firmly convinced that the new family policy measures and the significant extension of transfers will continue to enable families to participate in social, economic, social and cultural development accordingly. However, we need a reform of the amount of funding provided by the Family Compensation Fund in order to ensure positive financial development. And I refer again to the expert Walterskirchen, who can quite imagine the introduction of a value-added tax, as he mentioned in the Committee. But I would like to draw Walterskirchen to another point. He said at the Committee's budget hearing that it was particularly painful that the National Employment Action Plan did not claim a right to part-time employment for parents with children up to the age of 6. I've had a year of life. In view of the surplus of labour – according to Walterskirchen in the Budget-Hearing – it would be useful to introduce such a measure for a voluntary reduction in working time. I agree with this view because I believe that we need further reform to take account of the desire that many young people have to start a family while at the same time exercising a qualified profession. This includes the right to part-time until the 6th century. The child's age. This also includes the extension of the retention period after the Karenz from four to 26 weeks. Ladies and gentlemen! We Socialists, therefore, will continue to take massive steps to ensure that these wishes of women and of the families are implemented and implemented.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e11029	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Peter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e11050	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Mertel! You have just told us that you are increasing family transfers without raising taxes. That's right at first sight. Only: If nominal tax revenue from wage tax increases faster than nominal income, so there is a progression and you do not pass on this progression as part of a wage tax reform, then indirectly increase taxes. So I think you should consider this statement again. It's simple and touchingly not true. They have thus pre-empted part of the wage tax reform, i.e. in the end they have refrained from a tax reduction that would have been necessary to keep the level of taxation equal to income. They have used the funds for the family transfer. So I mean, we should call things by name. The budget accompanying law will not find the consent of the liberals, but very probably the Studienförderungsgesetz. That is why I will concentrate on supporting our reasons for rejection for you. Point one: the family transfer. I am very pleased that the Minister for Family Affairs is present because there are obviously different views in this regard. For us, the family is the most private part of human living together, and we do not want to make any difference in transfers and in tax law and in the way citizens live together in their families. In contrast to Mr Klubobmann Khol, we do not think children are a gift to the state, we also believe that the children do not belong to us, but belong to themselves. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: How do you get "gift to the state"?]] – This is a formulation that you used once at a family debate. She was very bitterly upset at the time, so I remembered her. I believe that we parents have a natural obligation to maintain. The liberal transfer model, which assumes that parents fulfil their maintenance obligation to the children insofar as it takes place in their net income, is also set up. Only then, if they can't, because their net income is too low – whereby we understand all types of income as "net income" of course – will the state have to provide transfers. Mr. Family Minister! Now I admit that it is a help for many thousands of families in Austria that you have increased the family allowance. I admit that. But I don't know why Martin Bartenstein is now receiving additional family allowances for his five children and Helmut Peter for his two children. [[Abg. Wabl:... tax increases!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hans Helmut Moser.]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: It used to be called, Haselsteiner doesn't need it!]] – The hazelsteiner is not here today. But he won't be there either. As you know, he's out there. But let us take the three sons of Hazelstein, your five children, and my two children. We already have ten Austrian children, who receive more family allowances and who do not actually need them. In other words, in your policy you give up the transfer volume unnecessarily. And even though You yourself say you want a targeted transfer, go over with the casting pot. You run a policy that is against what you yourself say over and over again. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Your government statement, Dr. Moser, says you want targeted transfers. But here you are making a family tax reform, which ultimately leads to an extension of the transfer. So I'm glad that it referred to the child... – Yes, to the child. [[Abg. Wabl: Not to the rich father, but to the child!]] [[Abg. Wabl: Not after income!]] Mr. Wabl! I have already made it clear in my reference to the liberal transfer model that this is about a child's maintenance claim and not about money that parents receive. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: You take away 17 billion schilling families!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] – We do not take away 17 billion schillings from the families, but we have put a model for discussion, which we think is very concrete, Mrs Rauch-Kallat, helping those who need it, and there is nothing to the smoke-callats that do not need it! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Let me take one step further: to the residential population. I have the numbers of Upper Austria here. In 2011 – this is not so far away – we will have less than 20 years of age in Upper Austria than over 60 years of age. In 2031, the non-productive proportion of the population under 20 years of age and over 60 years of age will represent 108 percent of the productive population between 20 and 60 years of age. We must therefore decide in this Republic how we want to continue to finance pensions and training. As a liberal, we want to open up all possibilities for families to decide on their own initiative to children, and there will be no direct family support on their own. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rosemarie Bauer]] Childcare as an alternative is only trained in the state part in Austria. The Federal Government has used 600 million Schilling for the extension of childcare facilities. It will use another 600 million schillings. This results in 15 000 plus 15 000 – so I have taken it from the documentation – so 30 000 childcare places. Ladies and gentlemen! But that doesn't solve the problem. They will have to have the courage to take the step of promoting private alternatives in childcare. I can show you, Mrs Bauer, a very small invoice that is far more than a milkmaid bill. It is the tax reality in this country. Take a well - deserved couple, where both are employed, who are faced with the question of whether to choose for children or not. In order to be able to represent 30 000 S of labour costs per month, they must have earned 55 000 S gross. This is a limit rate of just over 42 percent. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] - There are, Mrs. Dr. Mertel! Thank God there are people who deserve well in this country. 30 000 S of labour costs means they can afford a gross wage of 15 000 s per month, so that this household helper, this family assistant, Bonne, as we would call it, will receive 11 000 s net. That is, they must have earned the five times gross amount in order to be able to pay the person 11 000 S net. That's weird! They thus prevent private child care. Let us not forget that today a houseworker or a male household worker, however, is something bad, it is an employment! Let's go one step further: If this home-helper earns 15 000 s gross, then the employee and employer's contribution in social insurance amounts to 40 per cent, i.e. 6 000 s, the wage tax is approximately 2 000 s, the municipal tax, FLAF et cetera once again 1 000 p. That is to say, these 30 000 S labour costs, 15 000 S gross wages, 11 000 S net wage for the State 9 000 S higher income of tax benefits, social security or taxes. If this woman or this man was still unemployed before, if she or he, we say, only 6 000 S of unemployment benefit, then the savings already make up 15 000 S. This is exactly a monthly gross wage. Why Have So you do not have the courage, in tax terms, to say that the high-income families have the opportunity, both of course, half and half, to take this 15 000 S, which deserves this power as a gross wage, as a tax exemption? – This is only 7 500 S costs for the State at a limit rate of 50 percent, and you have saved at least 9 000 S or, if this woman or this man was unemployed, 15 000 S. This allows you to create private employment! And with this, you can relieve a young family, in which both deserve well, both of you have a good education, where today the woman is under the pressure: Should I decide to be a mother or not? How am I supposed to do this with the kids in my career? – These are private economic approaches, how we could solve the problem. I regret that nothing can be discovered in your family transfer package. Second point: sales tax. What you abolished in 1990, Mr. Finanzminister... – Here he is, greeting God; I first suspected you over there, so a 360 degree turnaround was necessary. [[The speaker turned to the government bank.]] [[Federal Minister Edlinger: Pleasure!]] [[Federal Minister Edlinger: You must be careful that you do not go into the circle!]] Yeah, that just happened to me! That means in concrete terms: Just what your predecessor Lacina abolished in 1990 because of the bureaucratic overload of the companies, you are now reintroducing it again. Whether that brings back the lost 7 billion schilling of sales tax to you is something I question. I think this is a wrong measure. Third and last point: tax exemption for apprentices. Somewhere now the dog is going crazy in the pan! Deprive First It is through a sum of state measures, including local tax on teaching et cetera, the teaching in such a way that many teachers, many teaching firms, can no longer choose to teach. And now, because this has become too expensive, the tax gifts are coming. Yes, have you thought about whether there is a possibility to relieve the entire teaching into the cost of finding a new model of dual training, in which the teaching stands as an equal pillar in the secondary education level next to the AHS and the BHS? Disbursement They are the teaching establishments of apprentice compensation during a time when the apprentice is a student as in the AHS and in the BHS! I've never seen an AHS student or a BHS student get a fee. But of course he must be paid if he is in operation and there is a certain productivity factor; no question at all! So he's financially even much better off than the AHS or BHS student! Do you have the courage to decouple in the teaching between schooling and working time and to potentially extend schooling in the course of this decoupling? Especially new teaching professions, for example in the new technologies, need more schooling, need a real duality in a new vocational school system! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I am convinced that these gift measures will cost a lot, but will not bring much about because they do not solve a structural problem. They spent 2 billion schillings in 1997 to accommodate 3 000 apprentices in addition. I have already thanked the government groups in the House for having taken this initiative. I do not want to charge that 3,000 apprentices in relation to 2 billion Schilling 700 000 S per apprentice - which is a bizarre amount! It is strange to spend 700 000 s for a single course! What measures could we put in place with these financial resources if we really put dual training on new feet and thus create a new basis for this great instrument of dual training in Austria?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The budget accompanying law – and here I join colleagues Böhacker – is, as always, a law decision with 22 contents. I do not think this is a very useful form of legislation. But what hurts me much more is that he is well meant, but in many things he goes in the wrong direction. We will therefore reject him.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e11255	Next speaker is Mrs Maria Rauch-Kallat. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e11280	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! Today is a day of joy for my party. The decision of the Family Package implements a long-term call from the Austrian People's Party for the improvement of families. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] With this package, which brings 6 000 S more per child per year from 2000, i.e. 500 S more per child per month, plus the maintenance of the multiple-child season, plus a support to the multi-child family, if their income is below the social security limit, we send a clear signal to the Austrian families, especially for the middle-class families and the multi-child families, who are always at risk of slipping to the poverty line. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] Mrs Mertel! At the beginning of your speech, I was delighted to see that you have now obviously reached an acceptance of this family package. But if I had not been there myself during the negotiations, I would have almost doubted if I had actually realized all of this: [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: You have often not been there for a long time!]] I have not experienced that, Mrs Mertel, you have taken this away from us. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Of course! The Minister writes it in the press release!]] On the contrary, Mrs Mertel, I can still remember very well how Mrs Stadtrat Ederer – at least financial councillor in Vienna and for a long time Members here in the house – called the knowledge of the Constitutional Court a naughtiness, and how Mrs. Col. Binder – she too is sitting here in the house – spoke of a mogel pack and Mrs. Prammer was disappointed about the outcome of the family package. These are the facts! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The fact is, Mrs Colleagues, that it was the Austrian People's Party and its family organizations that have made a strong contribution to this, which for many years have been talking about a minimum of tax-free living for the Austrian families. It was Federal Minister Bartenstein, who presented a model in January 1997, which in the end almost corresponded to what we decide today. And it has required the findings of the Constitutional Court that we have finally been able to convince the coalition partner. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: We would have done this alone, with absolute majority!]] Be it about it: It is important for us to have achieved this result for the Austrian families, and that is worth it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Mrs. Rauch-Kallat, who is bothering the joy: Mr. Bartenstein or me?]] Dear Mrs. Mertel! I do not want to address this in my short speaking time, but if I may briefly quote the SPÖ's programme to the family, that does not contain much. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Why not?]] It contains a single sentence in relation to the family: We stand for an extended, modern family concept and understand all other forms as a greater enrichment. – Dear ladies and gentlemen! The ÖVP has a different family concept, and we are proud of it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There is nothing bad with us that there can be mother, father, and children in a family. On the contrary, because family is the place where children need to learn trust and security. [[Abg. May. Peter: Does anyone argue?]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Does anyone argue?]] And if Mr Kier makes his cross-mark on it, then I do not quite understand what that is supposed to mean, but perhaps it was the Liberal Forum's position on these points. For us of the ÖVP religion is also a value in the family, which is particularly important. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Kier: And kids aren't important?]] Ladies and gentlemen! The financial security of the family is important, and with this family package – 12 billion schilling more for the families from 2000 onwards, and not 17 billion less for the families, as the Liberal Forum provides – a decisive step has been taken, in addition to all those family promotions that have been effective in Austria for many years: transfers for the families, karenz times, free schooling and university visits. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: And kids aren't important?]] Only Germany and the USA spend more money than Austria. We have also been able to achieve a significant improvement for women in the calculation of child rearing times – 35 percent more since the last pension reform. And finally, the non-workable co-insurance of non-working family members is still to be mentioned here – something that SPÖ does not always want to leave untouched, at least according to its statements. But family is more than social security for us. For us, family is the place of trust and security where children can learn what trust and security mean. And family is ultimately what all young people look forward to. When they are addressed to what is most important to them in life, they say: a lasting partnership and a family. We must do everything we can to enable young people to share this family image. Therefore, my party is very interested in the fact that, in addition to financial security, a focus will be placed on the support of young families with a view to the compatibility of family and work, for example through the comprehensive expansion of childcare facilities as a family supplement – not as a family-based measure. But it is also important to us that parental education is sufficiently offered – in a variety of ways so that it can and will also be adopted by parents –, support in crisis situations, family advice, prevention of violence. It is important to us that violence becomes an absolute ground for divorce, just as it is important to us that adultery is not bagatized and remains an absolute ground for divorce. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In addition, ladies and gentlemen, I believe it is important to support families in their difficult task in the context of violence in the media, violence in the social environment, in the prevention of drug abuse, in the prevention of the loss of sects. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: Children, support parentsless children! – This is a cynicism! It's embarrassing!]] All these are dangers that families today are more exposed to than before, so it is our concern to support families, strengthen families and secure the future for them.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e11476	Mr Oellinger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e11497	Mr President. Mr. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! After we discussed the situation of the "malversation" for a long time yesterday, and we were not able to make it quite clear what this is, I would like to offer you a new foreign word, which, I believe, is very appropriate to this debate, namely the fact that "Amnesia" was the case, which we should also discuss on the occasion of today's debate: the political amnesty which you, ladies and gentlemen, of the government parties, have become quite obvious when you praise a family package for which you, Mrs Rauch-Kallat, have "fight long years", ladies and gentlemen, "long years"! But in contrast to you, Mrs Rauch-Kallat, I can still remember that you did not have to fight in here for too many years now because it is worse for the families. [[Intrusion of the Abg. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] And then you come here and exhibit a sweet picture of your family, that if you listen to me, Mrs Rauch-Kallat! It is no longer possible to understand what you are offering about sweet melody and romance about the family, but unfortunately, in recent years too often there is nothing to do with the reality of the families you have provided them. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rosemarie Bauer.]] They were responsible for the reduction of family aid. They were responsible for the reduction in the amount of care paid, for the reduction of the special emergency aid, for the removal of the home aid. And then you make yourself up and say that after many years of struggle we have achieved that the families are now significantly better than ever. – This is political amnesia, and it is obviously widespread in certain circles – not only for individuals. But I do not just want to remain in this polemic, ladies and gentlemen, although it would be appropriate to what you have offered here. I would also like to draw attention to a number of points which you have not mentioned and which you will hear as soon as possible: you have, for example, forgotten to reform the maintenance right on the occasion of this debate and debate on the family package. Of course, I have also been among those who, when they first heard of the Constitutional Court's judgment, have criticized what the Constitutional Court has said. And, of course, I still criticise the judgment, but no longer the Constitutional Court, but the policy is to criticise – and this is also an essential execution of the Constitutional Court’s judgment – the policy of the government parties, which, as the Constitutional Court has already suggested almost indignantly, has done nothing for decades in the field of maintenance law, which was in the 19th century. ==References====External links==* Official website In Austria, we have a permanent maintenance right, which the operators prefer, and you, because you did not want to change the maintenance right, also somehow correspond to the family package. That's the problem. For if one wanted to make a truly comprehensive draft, family policy not only so closely defined in terms of these increases – which I am quite satisfied with, but not forgetting what you made in this area a few years ago – then one should have vented this tip above the right of maintenance, because it is already well out of the 19th century. ==References====External links== This is particularly true of your address, because you have been speculating on it for some time – and this has always been evident from the ÖVP side – that, if the SPÖ is not prepared to comply with this demand package by you, it would be quite good if you could rely on this ruling of the Constitutional Court, which provides enough evidence for this state-of-the-art family policy. But, I emphasize, not the Constitutional Court is the real perpetrator, but politics is the perpetrator who has done nothing for years and decades. I would remind you that you are finally taking action in this area, too. We need a need-based maintenance right and no permanent maintenance right from the 19th century. In the 20th century, which was largely rewritten by the judges by judicial law and in principle is completely obsolete and can only, of course, lead to these consequences as in the Constitutional Court judgment. That would be the first point, and you missed it. The second – at least as important – would have been that you could have decided on a courageous new draft at the cost of family policy, especially as regards FLAF. This is not just about, although, the fact that there are still groups – I repeat it again, and you will probably hear it from me for a few more years – which still do not pay any contributions to the FLAF. It is also a question, Mr Federal Minister, that there would have been the possibility either of a value-added levy, as proposed by the Social Democratic Members and colleagues, or of a tax on eco-tax – you are also environmental ministers – to relieve these pay-as-you-go components considerably. I would not entirely give up a FLAF contribution, but a contribution relief of 3 or 4 percent – we also tried to prove it with our eco-tax model – would be possible at any time: instead of 4.5 percent then only more than 1 percent or 0.5 percent of wage-related taxes, and the other financed by an eco-tax. That would be a better contribution – also to this awareness justice between the different groups. The third thing you've missed – I'll call it again, and you'll get to hear it even more often –: You promised – on the occasion of the first savings package – that you would correct those measures taken in relation to foreigners or children living abroad, then if money were available in the family compensation fund. I repeat: You have neither corrected it nor have you – and this is now your address, Mr. Finanzminister, and you know that – to date you can decide to regulate the maintenance amount in such a way and to define it so clearly – and this is not a question of law, there it is clear, but a question regarding the financial offices – that those who are deprived of family support can nevertheless assert the right to the maintenance allowance. I come to another area because of course what Mrs Frauen Rauch-Kallat has offered me with her family image. You said, Mrs Colleague, that it must be possible to relive family and form a family picture. I would have liked to know: What kind of family image do you mean? What are you talking about? – Of course you can transport certain pictures. But there is no longer only the one family and that one picture you always think of – and you have quite contradictoryly presented it in your speech – where there is the father and mother and the nice little children, but there are also more dramatic family situations where one of the two partners is missing, where there are difficulties to secure the maintenance, even in spite of the measures you are trying to restore here, where there are other problems within the families. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Is that what you're gonna do?]] We should, I have suggested this several times, perhaps be able to agree on one point, regardless of any ideological debate – you have offered a point of reference, at least I have heard it, but in the pictures you then transported, you have not resorted to it – which would be a point of reference – and that comes from a brochure coming from the Ministry of Family Affairs: We should perhaps be able to agree, regardless of the ideological debate, on what it should be about to the State. Here I mean, it's not about securing a certain kind of family – what you're still planning, especially since the dispute or the dispute about securing marriage and family in the Constitution is still being held behind the scenes. It is about the state having the task – and could and should we talk about – to promote and enable partnerships or sustainability in relations – and here I do not even use the concept of partnership. If we could agree, Mrs Rauch-Kallat, we would be a step further. But what is the requirement for these lasting relationships, whether between the sexes, whether within the same sex, whether between the generations or within a generation – which does not matter at all – to become possible these partnerships? – This is not just about the money – although it is about the money – it is also about the time factor. At a time when relations and communication within adult-child relations and partnerships can only take place via the pinboard on the refrigerator because there is no time available, you should take what we Greens have called for in connection with this family package a little more seriously, namely that for this permanence of relationships the periods must also be provided. That meant, for example, actually creating the right to part-time leave for both parents, of course, because otherwise one does not come to this permanence, otherwise it cannot come to this communication of adults and children precisely in these most difficult periods for the children. That means that: It must be made available to you. But that was also meant to think something – and I am quite open to some suggestions that have come – about the quality of relations with children and young people, not only on the part of parents, but also on the side of the caring institutions, such as the kindergarten institutions, where a certain amount of time unit per child is sometimes no longer given, because too many children are in a group, or the school where, in recent years, the number of students in the classes has been increased, which has naturally reduced the attention that a teacher or a teacher can give to children. I wonder whether the necessary amount of time not only exists on the part of schools or care facilities, such as kindergartens, i.e. institutions that are given a lot of social orders, whether they are drug prevention or another task, but also on the part of the parents. If you look at the investigations that have been carried out in part on your behalf, Mr. Family Minister, you know one thing: Although the individual availability time is still increasing, the social times are declining, i.e. the times actually spent together. It would therefore be a task of a family policy without ideological shambles to debate the debate, to consider how we can ensure that children and young people can actually communicate with their parents, to ask themselves the question of how we can ensure a certain quality of care facilities, so that an amount of time is still ensured to ensure individual contacts and social communication. These would have been the questions that would have been asked in connection with a comprehensive family package far away from incense and myrrh. Unfortunately, these questions have not been asked yet, and they have not been answered with this family package either. I would ask you to hold this debate with a little more seriousness. This is really about elementary questions. They could – I dare to say that if I allow the results of drug research, the addiction behaviour of children and young people to happen – save quite a lot of programs on addiction and drug prevention, if actually the time factor, namely social time in relations between young people or children and adults, was given a little more space. But if, on the one hand, the policy and the economy set out framework conditions that no longer allow this, by increasing the pace, the acceleration factor, when this time is no longer available, then, of course, counterproductive measures are being put in place, which then lead exactly to you having to play crisis police again afterwards, through schools, through the care facilities, through family advisory services, and to try to repair what needs to be repaired there and there. But this is not a precautionary policy, it is a nurturing policy. But there must be family policy, ladies and gentlemen. However, in this debate, which has only been focused on talking about great successes that you want to celebrate now, this has not been the subject of the discussion so far. But I hope, Mr Federal Minister, that at some point we will have the opportunity to discuss these issues a little more seriously, as you have not taken any precautions in this family package for the time factor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e11559	It has now been referred to by Mr Bartenstein, Federal Minister. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e11580	Mr President. Mr Edlinger! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Family Tax Reform 1998 is indeed a reason for the families to celebrate, it is a star-hour for Austria's families, and therefore I would like to refer, above all, to those things that are worth mentioning, even though some of your criticism, Mrs Mertel, has come from your side. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] Mr Oellinger! If I refer to the family image outlined by you and the value of the relationships, I must say: Our ideas are in such a way not far apart. It is true that working families are the best condition for children who not only grow up in peace, but also in such a way that they are faced with the risks you, Mr Deputies, as far as possible with drug abuse and similar risks. I believe that not so much the time available for teachers and kindergartens should be in the foreground – that is also important, I admit – but rather the time and intensity of relations, fathers and mothers can spend for their children. A family policy that ensures and provides the framework conditions is certainly a successful and a good family policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oils: Would you be!]] Mr Oellinger! From this our Christian-democratic family image is very likely to be derived. It is clear from this point of view that the child’s well - being is that children can grow up in the care of father and mother. There are other forms of relations and partnerships to be recognized as families. I do not want to give my highest consideration to all single parents in Austria. It is not easy for the 300 000 single-parents in Austria to fulfil this task and to bear the multiple burden on a single person. But from the point of view of child welfare, it is clearly an advantage when father and mother are there when both have time for child rearing. But I think that, apart from parliamentary dialectics, we are not very far apart in our conception of the family image. Well, ladies and gentlemen, on the subject of family tax reform: It is the largest family package of the last decades, probably the Second Republic. There have been two reasons for the two coalition partners, the Social Democrats and us, to bind up this family tax reform package. One motive was undoubtedly the recognition of the constitutional judges, the task of rehabilitating the relevant legislative bodies, the task of ensuring that at least half of the maintenance obligations of parents in our country are tax-free. But for us it is also the fact that in Austria, according to the recent social report of the Minister of Social Affairs, Hostasch, in the first few days of this year, no fewer than 152 000 children live on or below the poverty line, no less than one motive for it. In particular, the relationship between children living at or below the poverty line and those in work and seniors is worrying. While 8 per cent of children are affected by poverty, there are 5 per cent of Austrians in employment and 2 per cent of the elderly in this country who live on or below the poverty line. On the one hand, this is a little gratifying for the policy of seniors in this country, overall gratifying, but that the group of children slips with the greatest probability at or below the poverty line, was, of course, a family policy task for us to do something about it, and therefore, ladies and gentlemen, this family tax reform package goes far beyond what the constitutional judges have put us as the lowest latte. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] Mrs Mertel! I do not want to use the debate on family tax reform in this time of celebration, which I see as a reality, to outline the long way forward – the round with Mr. Finanzminister Edlinger, Mrs. Frau Frauenminister Prammer, you and our negotiators, Minister Fassleven, Mrs. Rauch-Kallat and myself – which it has used until common ground. It was a long way, it was a path of mutual conviction, it was also a difficult path, but we have come to a good and very constructive result, and I do not want to thank the negotiators for it. I think that in some of us the family man has come through, and Minister of Finance Edlinger and I have just found that we have ten children together: he had three children and two grandchildren and I five on the provisionally direct path, so from the emotional point of view, I think the prerequisite for successful negotiations was given. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP as well as cheerfulness with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Federal Minister Edlinger: I finally have three, he has five for now!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The following is still important: In addition to increasing family benefits by 6 000 s per child per year – this part represents the really large sum of 11 billion schilling, and in addition, Mrs Mertel, we are very pleased by the People's Party – we – and this small sentence does not allow me, Mrs Mertel – not only to withdraw from the multi-children's season, they have not dropped or removed or abandoned it, but have also introduced a multi-child supplement for families with three and more children. At the same time, we may well have withdrawn an income limit of 42 000 S per family per month in the case of a new benefit. Reasonable is that because it is estimated that 80 or 85 percent of families are covered by it and can use this multi-child supplement, and reasonable because, as we know, especially multi-child families tend to be stronger – I don't want to say, vulnerable – than families with one or two children or partners who have no children for any reason. I am in the same position as I am in favour of the fact that those people – whether they are single-earners or single-parents – who in the future have almost no tax to pay, will be able to benefit from the amount of 5 000 s per year. These accompanying measures are just as useful as it was to increase the standard benefit, namely the combination of family allowances and the amount of children's allowance by 6 000 s per year. Mr Peter, ladies and gentlemen! In the last few months it has always been the children of Mr Bartenstein and the children of Mr Haselsteiner who have been used for comparison, but I note that from today this has changed, that in the future my children and your children, honourable Member Peter, are being compared here and used as an example. But, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say one thing to you: It would have been the biggest mistake – and we have had this examined – since such considerations were made or such a solution would not have been justifiable to the children and the family of Mr. Haselsteiner or also to Mr. Bartenstein, because precisely those levels of income that are at the very top would have been significantly more included in the family compensation fund than they have ever come out of it. If we exclude these levels of income, Mr Deputies, from the benefits, we must also exempt them from the benefits. This would be a very bad business for the family compensation fund, a bad business for Austria's families; among other things, we did not want and have not approached this proposal. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! However, it is also important to mention that there is an important additional aspect in this family tax reform, namely the additional 600 million schilling for childcare already tailored by Mrs Mertel. Mrs Prammer and I have looked at the figures, and we have come to 1.2 billion schilling for the four- to six-year-olds – that is the first tranche – for adequate and comprehensive care. With the second tranche, we will operate primarily towards lower and upper age groups and, for example, we will also give more importance to extra-school and post-school care, which is aimed at, Mr Ollinger, at ensuring that childcare is actually available where it is needed. Let me say, however, that I cannot approach two thoughts at all: One was said by Mrs Mertel, the other by Mr Oellinger, and the other by alternative methods of financing the family compensation fund. We have a proven funding of the family compensation fund for decades. It's not like I'm worried about the future plan figures, quite the opposite: You look pretty good. For the next few years, we can expect a well-representable situation of the family compensation fund. In view of this, I think on the one hand, I am thinking about a value added tax, which should be tasted in the area of families in some way – because there is in fact no such thing, something like this would be new country – and on the other hand, the proposal to use an eco-tax to finance the families is not the right way. This applies in particular, Mr Oellinger, to the eco-tax for the financing of families, because, by definition, an eco-tax is a tax which is intended to reduce the consumption of natural resources, i.e. by definition, which begins at the beginning with a certain level, but then decreases year after year, because hopefully consumption of energy and other resource raw materials decreases. We could not then rely on growth in this financing, but, quite the contrary, we would have to expect a decline. That seems to me to be the wrong approach. I continue to hold fast to the proven funding of the family compensation fund. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] One Last, Dear Dear Ladies and gentlemen: In our political debate, we have discussed a point very well again and again, namely the question of how we deal with the divorce fathers. That's a delicate question. It is by no means the Constitutional Courts had already spoken correctly. It would be possible for the Constitutional Courts to consider that divorce is private and, as such, the current legal situation is constitutional. We assume that in good hope, but we cannot say that with certainty. I therefore propose, ladies and gentlemen, that, in this respect, one should: Call of the President of the Constitutional Court, Adamovich, takes up, and by anchoring the family in the Constitution creates a clarification in so far as the constitutional judges have better clues when they have to deal with complaints. Furthermore, a family anchorage in the Constitution is given in 13 out of 15 EU countries. In any event, it could also make it possible for the Constitutional Courts to facilitate a saying in the case of the case, which would then read as follows: Divorce is private! There is now no need to grant additional family benefits to divorced fathers, for example, simply because the provision is applicable that their maintenance obligations are at least half tax-free, but on the other hand, the mothers refer more to family allowances, children's allowance and the like. This is a consideration that I have made to the coalition partners, and I hope that this aspect of family tax reform will be made possible in the next few months for some final decision-making. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In summary, my dear friends Ladies and gentlemen: Today is a great day, a beautiful day for Austrian families due to a family tax reform that is now actually bringing Austria into the first series of particularly family-friendly countries in Europe and the world as a whole, a family tax reform that increases the federal financial transfers to our families by no less than 30 percent, from currently around 42 billion schilling to 54 billion schilling, a family tax reform that we can truly be proud of in the sense of our families.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e11681	The next speaker is Mrs Bures. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e11702	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today is a day to celebrate, the Federal Minister has said today. – It may be. But I can also remember another day. I should now like to remind you of this because he has a lot to do with today's discussion, and I mean that day when the Constitutional Court's judgment has been passed. On the part of the ÖVP it was not critical of this judgment, but the ÖVP also called the day on which the knowledge of the Constitutional Court came to be called a day to celebrate, it rejoiced this day. At the time, however, it was said that if we did not take measures, those who were in favour of higher incomes would be preferred to have higher tax savings, much higher than those in the lower incomes that would be preferred to be among the 3% of those in the highest incomes in Austria. But this too, Mr Federal Minister, unfortunately was a day for you to rejoice. I do not think that it is a question of assuming that the Constitutional Court is entitled to pursue social policy. That's our job. I also share the view that this, of course, has to do with our legal basis, because it is also the permanent maintenance right that we have, which can lead to such judgments. Nevertheless, one must also practice criticism. It is no coincidence that the proportion of women in the Constitutional Court is far too low, and in our view the Judicture also looked different, women would be more involved. The aim is – this prevents what you have rejoiced some time ago – to shape family promotion with social security in such a way that those who actually need it will receive it. And one form of social confidence is that every child is equally valuable to us and has to get as much, and those children who need special support should receive additional resources. We are pleased that some of the measures we are going to adopt today in the budget accompanying law have been successful. I want to take two of them. One is the multi-child supplement for low-income families. Some 150,000 families in Austria will benefit from this and receive additional support. The second very essential aspect for me, which we have succeeded in considering precisely this social orientation, is the regulation of negative taxation, which, if the tax rate is too low, can be granted at a rate of 5 000 s; in the past, it was only 2 000 S. This measure will also benefit 100 000 families in Austria. That is why I share the view that this regulation will be a day to celebrate today. This - you have said - is an increase of 6 000 s annually, and this will mean a significant relief for the families in Austria. In the EU section, Austria is second in terms of family support compared to the other EU countries. The measures that will be implemented from 2000 onwards are likely to lead Austria to the first place. The employment rate of women is much worse. That's where we're only in ninth place. I therefore think that in addition to these material grants, which are very important and which concern social aspects, it will also be necessary to focus on the compatibility of work and family. I would like to take a brief look at the starting point. After a survey 85 percent of all women between the ages of 18 and 35. They have children and are employed. We have ratified the UN Convention on the Rights of Children. Here we could award a legal contract and allow all children a right to a care place. But, of course, we have many papers, and much has already been said about this area. I have only looked at what only the family ministers – their predecessors – have said about this subject area since I was in this House. I've summarized this briefly. 1990, Dr. Marilies Flemming, ÖVP: "Proposals for a Family Policy Programme". It calls for childcare facilities and calls for the greater possibility of part-time work. "My Family Policy Guidelines" by Dkfm. Feldbrill-Zankel, 1991. It is for a more flexible offer of family-friendly facilities, for a greater expansion of childcare facilities, and it is for stronger entry-level assistance for women after the family break. And because she spoke here today, be the paper as well. "Save life for the future" mentioned by Mrs Exbundes Minister for Smoking Callat from 1993. It says: "The offer of childcare facilities today often does not meet the needs of children and parents. They are extended and the possibility of part-time employment should, of course, become a possible form of employment." Finally, Mrs. Dr. Sonja Moser, 1995: "My political objective is: More childcare places for children!" Federal Minister! Paper is patient as we see it. Those children who have been spoken of here are likely to mate in the near future, and the question of whether we have created or not has long grown up. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: Hopefully you will have a job, an apprenticeship!]] If you, Minister of State, are talking about the degree of coverage, I must say: We know that 120 000 to 180 000 childcare places are missing in Austria. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: Federal Chancellor climate has promised them a teaching place, all of them!]] This situation is noticeable to parents every day, because there are two possibilities for them: Either the women cannot pursue a profession, or it is organizational hard work for families to deal with. That is why I would like to highlight the area that seems to me most important, namely the additional funding for childcare facilities. I would ask you, Mr Federal Minister, not to continue the words of your predecessors, but actually to commit acts. I think you will speak a word of power within your own party, especially because it falls within the competence of the countries, and I invite you to join us in demanding the right to part-time work until 6. To implement the child's year of life.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e11756	Mrs Haller is now speaking. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e11777	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! We are currently debating the so-called budget accompanying laws, and at the same time – or perhaps the festival is already over – the Social Democrats are very much celebrating a family celebration at the Town Hall Square. They celebrate the success of the family package. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: So who was it now?]] Just like that! From a liberal point of view, it seems a little strange to invite Mr. Federal Chancellor Viktor Klima and the Minister for Women to celebrate this success with them. Above all, this is strange because one celebrates things that are still future music. It is simply a fact that new childcare places for 1.2 billion schilling, celebrated today, can only be realized by the year 2000. [[Abg. Großruck: German Chancellor Klima celebrates the success of Minister Bartenstein today!]] Also the 6 000 S for more family support, which appears here in this listing, Mrs Mertel, will only come in 2000; next year it will be only 3 000 S. And to this additional support for low-income families, of which you are always so shivering, I must say to you: Firstly, this form degradates the families once again into bitters, and secondly, this regulation will not become more effective especially in the most important area of the lower quarter of income stakeholders. On the contrary: It excludes only 20 percent of the better-earning families, and that actually contradicts what you are so loud in proclaiming here. In the area of childcare, too, we cannot entirely agree with the liberals, as the funds have so far gone to more than four-fifths in public care facilities, and the private institutions have largely lost their hands. If we are assured in the Committee that there will now be new directives on awarding, we do not trust the matter at all. Nevertheless, we will vote in favour of this point. Of course, we are not satisfied with the rest of the family package, as it is here on the table, because the tax justice, which – and nothing else – is ultimately in the knowledge of the Constitutional Court, will be improved slightly and gradually, but the recognition will not be met again. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The next objections are therefore already at the door, especially because the Constitutional Court of Justice has carefully repatriated the provisions of this new draft and does not improve the fiscal situation of the maintenance officers. It is actually just prolonged a unconstitutional coup. Even if there are improvements, he is prolonged. It is a question for us liberals: For at least ten years, Austrian families have been deprived of the fundamental right to equality before the law. From our point of view, it would really be to consider whether the introduction of unconstitutional laws, in which one already knows before that they will again be unconstitutional, does not conflict with the authority of the members of the government. It would be to check if they were compatible with it. It would also be clear whether there would be no claim for damages on the part of the families concerned. I have already mentioned this in committee, but I have not received an answer to it. We liberals are in favour of increasing family support, quite clearly – especially in this area there is a large hole, the family aid has been shortened by the savings packages, it has not been valorised for years – but we are not in favour of seeing this increase in family support now practically as a repayment for the tax discrimination which has been done so far, because the right to family aid is in addition to the civil maintenance obligation. That's to be held! It is also clear that the tax additional burden on the parents responsible for maintenance is created by the system of progressive individual taxation, which is so highly praised by the coalition in Austria, which makes it difficult to implement a regulation as you would like it to be. It is also clear that since 1987, the first appeal to the Constitutional Court, the gap established on its own, between the maintenance officers and the non-maintenant, has increased. It will also be larger by this template. Only a splitting would be a way to meet the basic principle of taxation according to individual performance; this would be done with a very manageable effort. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Grandruck: Right!]] I would like to point out once again what Mr Böhacker has already said: It is simply not to be seen that the government parties did not deal with the proposals made by the liberals, which are proven to be constitutional, and that in the Committee on Budgets of State Secretary Ruttenstorfer and, in particular, of Mrs Bundesminister Gehrer, there were dried phrases in the direction of family division, which in fact only proved to be one thing: that in this area one does not know at all that one has not dealt with it at all. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Well, you know each other!]] Mr. Family Minister! I also need to say something to you: You may be satisfied with this solution, which has now been taken, or must be satisfied with it. [[Federal Minister Dr Bartenstein: I am!]] But it was you yourself who actually had a different solution in mind and represented another model. I quote here a broadcast of the cartel association, which you actually wanted to have a solution that is in the order of 18 billion schilling. And that would have been the better solution... – issue cartel association. [[Federal Minister Dr Bartenstein: What?]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: What can I do for the cartel association?! I'm not a member!]] - I don't know. I only quote one issue of the cartel association, Mr. Federal Minister, in which you are subject to this. I can't check the truth. In all cases – not only our liberals – it is clear that this proposal is a minimum consensus between the two government parties, for which both the ÖVP and the SPÖ now want to put the spring on the hat for the voters. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: You can't do that!]] But from our point of view, this is no reason to celebrate. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Of course not!]] A minimum consensus can never be a good compromise, and I am waiting, Mrs Mertel, for the next opposition. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: You want a maximum consensus!]] If you, especially you, are talking about a quantum leap in family policy, I must admit that this may be in line with your family understanding, but not with our freedom of movement. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Everyone has their own truth, and you are very special!]] For the families get through this arrangement with another mesher only a bit of the money taken away from them before. And you don't even give this to the Austrian families voluntarily, but only forced by the Constitutional Court. That is really no reason to celebrate!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e11967	Mr Dkfm. Mühlbachler already comes to the pult because he's spoken. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e11988	Mr President. Mr Edlinger, Minister of State! Mr Bartenstein, Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! I think Mr. Federal Chancellor Climate and Mrs. Federal Minister Prammer are celebrating what Mr. Bartenstein has taken out for the families. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: And Edlinger!]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] The fact is, Mrs Mertel, that in the edition of the "Kurier" of the 9th century. The following can be read in January 1998: "The SPÖ search for a model for family promotion has ended. The model would cost 5 billion Schilling next year, between 9 and 9.5 billion Schilling from 2000 onwards. For the SPÖ, it is clear from where the money for the additional effort should come from: In 1999 the family tax compensation funds will be used to cover some 3 billion by now, with the remaining 2 billion coming out of the budget." - Please, that's the SPÖ model! ==References== The Salzburger Nachrichten wrote on March 1, 1998 – that's when it was all about the package as a whole: "The overall package, which will bring a total of 12 billion Schilling to families from 1998 onwards, will, as reported, be financed by half from the resources of the FLAF and the budget." So that's how things look. Ladies and gentlemen! However, I would like to say a few things about the previous speakers. Here is always pretended to be a family policy detideologicalized. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Exactly!]] That's not true! It can't be that way. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: I'll give you all right!]] If you look into the past, you can see that there have already been different opinions in the past. There is a very good documentation about this, in the 1994 "Economic and Social Policy Journal". In this there is a treatise of a certain woman, Agnes Streissler, who writes: "During the late 1960s in family policy, the family policy component considered social policy with the argument that everyone raising children must produce positive external effects for society and therefore be compensated accordingly, family policy changes fundamentally with the beginning of the SPÖ single government." Ladies and gentlemen! This is also remarkable in that there has, of course, been a change in the family in society. And imagine: This also leads to the development of the number of children. I can tell you the following: Until 1977, the number of children was rising and falling steadily after this year. Moreover, statistics clearly show that there is no link between the number of children and the number of children per child. Therefore, it cannot be deduced that higher funding would also mean a higher number of children. Unfortunately, that is not the case with God. I would like to say one last thing – my time, unfortunately, is already running out of God. [[Abg. Großruck: The speaking time is running out!]] Of course, the speaking time! [[Abg. Großruck: You're not at the FPÖ!]] [[Abg. Madl: Thank God!]] Because it repeatedly complains that the attendants would prefer – it has literally expressed Mr. Oellinger – that: In the "Economic and Social Policy Journal" of January 1998, he should look at a statistics showing how household incomes are affected by social benefits. I can only mention some data from this: The lower tenth of the income earners have a per capita income of 2 200 p. This is improved with social benefits of 5 600 S per month. The middle tenth of the income earners have 11 100 s of per capita income in the household, and there the monthly social benefits are only 1 600 s. For those who are 30 300 S, the social benefit is only more than 400 S. Ladies and gentlemen! To hold a distribution debate is correct, but from my point of view not necessarily only and only when it comes to family policy measures. I think that what has come out is a portable and, above all, a goodly compromise for the families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e12104	Mrs Klara Motter has spoken next time. Madam President, you have or your club has a speaking time of 14 minutes at your disposal. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e12128	Mr President. Mr. Family Minister! Mr Finanzminister! It honors you that you are fathers of ten children. Unfortunately, I only brought it to two with my husband. [[Federal Minister Edlinger: I have only three!]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: To that, grandchildren!]] So not ten? - Excuse me. But it is great that there are fathers or grandfathers of ten children behind my back! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: That was the dark number!]] Ladies and gentlemen! In principle, we Liberals too are pleased that something is finally being done in our country for children and that at the second stage of the family tax reform every child has more than 6 000 S available per year. However, the chosen form of family support does not really relate to the needs of children, which I consider very unfortunate. For the reform is carried out in the known method: In fact, regardless of the individual situation, payment is made for all the same amounts. Mr Bartenstein! The conflict that we have fought or have always fought against will continue. This principle of foundry can not effectively combat child poverty – it has already adopted significant dimensions – at any level, since these funds also benefit those families with an above-average income. If these funds are committed, they cannot be made available to those multi-child families who are actually vulnerable to poverty and have a real need for family transfers. Mr Bartenstein! This is in principle to criticise this reform because it is not socially balanced. The often announced increase in meeting security was not realized this time either. With costs of 12 billion schilling in the second stage of the reform, Austria will have a very luxurious family support system in Europe. However, this is not suitable to really meet child poverty. Mrs Mertel! Faith Are you really sure that this family promotion is correct? – I do not think you believe this because you have already acknowledged in your speech that you have had to make great compromises. In my opinion, there is certainly no reason to celebrate today in any place. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: I'm here!]] You're here, that's what honors you. Ladies and gentlemen! We are convinced that the existing problem of child poverty can only be adequately tackled if the specific situation of the child and its individual needs are taken into account. We know that 21 percent of all children in Austria are at risk of poverty, whereas that is under the lead mark – "only" 9 percent of adults. What we need in view of these facts is that, in order to be effective, the transfer services are made dependent on the individual needs of the referees. Ladies and gentlemen! In the transfer model of the Liberal Forum – which we will always tell you from this point of view – unlike the Family Taxation Reform, the focus is on the child and his needs, but not on the structure of the family. However, we are not concerned with ideology either, and I can assure you that the family's liberals are also of great importance. We also have family, and we also live family! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] But for us, the child is still the focus. In order to achieve this, we need reliable and socially balanced transfers. Only by doing so can the existing imbalances, which are exclusively at the expense of the children, be removed at the same cost. This is by no means guaranteed with the novelle now in place. Problems such as a claim to two years of pay for single parents have been despite Promises have not yet been fulfilled, although children of single mothers and fathers are threatened with poverty three times more than children from mother-father-child families. As I pointed out at the outset, although in principle this novelle recognises the problem of material supply, we cannot accept liberals because the reform does not reveal any approach to the long-standing changes in the structure of transfer payments.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e12221	The next speaker is Mr Müller. Do you want a time limit? - 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e12242	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The preparation of the 1999 Federal Budget requires legal accompanying measures in various areas. This concerns, in particular, the provisions of the Income Tax Act, which the Constitutional Court has often referred to. The present Government template also amends the Financial Balance Act. By further expanding the childcare facilities, the federal government grants the countries a further tranche of 600 million schilling. This will increase the target grant to countries for childcare facilities to 1.2 billion schilling, creating some 19 000 new childcare places. The compatibility of child, family and profession is thus further facilitated, and a social democratic goal is also achieved. In my view, it is essential that, for the purpose of project assessment and allocation, a Commission be set up which, in addition to representatives of the federal government, belongs to the municipal government. The 1999 budget – whose discussions we are starting tomorrow – can also be seen as a milestone in the area of family support. Because the reform of family support will help most of the families and thus the future of our country more financially than before. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This will improve the framework conditions for child rearing, and social hardships will become rarer. Austria is one of the most family-friendly countries in the EU. This is clearly a performance of the SPÖ government responsibility that lasts almost 30 years. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Steibl: This is a whole new tone!]] The Constitutional Court considers that children are not just private life-formers. In order to meet the awareness, a model was chosen, which holds on the one hand to the system of combined transfer services. We are especially proud to take into account the social and family-political needs. The social components are extended to less-income families, and from the third child – and this has already been emphasized several times today – a multi-child supplement will be created. This supplement is also linked to income. On the other hand, the family allowance becomes 1st. January 1999 and at a second rate at 1. In January 2000, the Commission adopted a number of amendments to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of Thus, a significant valorization of the family allowance is carried out under this federal law. With regard to the impact on income tax, I think it is important to mention, in addition to increasing the amount of children's allowance by 350 s per month and child, the fact that low income will benefit more from the increase in the negative tax from 2 000 to 5 000 s than before. We must not hide and also want the total cost of the family tax reform to be co-financed to a significant proportion of the countries and municipalities to the extent of about 12 billion schilling. Ladies and gentlemen! As less revenue is apparent in the field of sales tax, I support the rule that entrepreneurs will only be exempt from the obligation to issue prior-tax applications if they comply with their obligations to pay on time. High house! The budget accompanying legislation will not only benefit about 5 million Austrians, but it will take another important step towards more social justice. That is why we will be happy to give our approval to S & Ds.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e12290	Mrs Madl has now come to speak. Madam President, you have a speaking time of 16 minutes available. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e12311	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! After yesterday's day, I believed that nothing could surprise me in this House. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, After yesterday's day, which was so filled with hatred by this "four-community", I thought: That was the "high point" of my parliamentary experience. [[Abg. Kiss: Do you have a second rose stingl?]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] But today's day brings me a new variant of surprises. [[Prolonged calls.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] I just need to remember that there is a change of law here, which is a "day of joy" for the families – according to Mrs. Rauch-Kallat – or which is a "quantity leap" – as Mrs. Mertel said, and the Federal Minister is even hiding to the expression "stern hour for the Austrian families". [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: Everything right!]] Federal Minister! An "stern hour" for the Austrian families was then when for the first time the savings package was decided, namely by the coalition parties and the Council of Ministers under the participation of the Minister of the Family. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Has Rosenstingl also mistrusted tax money?]] At the time, the Austrian families noticed that the Federal Government and the High House had adopted family policy, Mr Maitz! That was the "stern hour" of the Austrian families, but not the day today! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Or have you forgotten, Mr Maitz? – They also voted in favour. Not only did you agree to the reduction of the family allowance three years ago, which resulted in a direct influence on the families, but also in many legal measures that have had indirect influence on the families, such as the reduction of... [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: After terrible!]] "After terrible," you say? – Tell me, was it not terrible when the karenz time was shortened, Mrs. Bauer? – So that was not terrible, you shake your head! Your voters will thank you. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The families who now live below the poverty line will thank you because it was not terrible for you. For you, a few thousand schillings were not as much as for many Austrian families! Or wasn't it terrible when you took back the birth aid? – You voted in favour! Isn't that terrible? - Admit it! Yes or no? A simple question. Or was it not terrible when the families suddenly received a 10 percent self-hold in the school books? [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: That wasn't terrible!]] Wasn't that terrible, too? – And you voted in favour, Mrs Bauer! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That's good!]] And how you confessed when these savings packages were decided! Was it not terrible when you decided to have a 10 percent holding on school leave, Mrs. Colleague? [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Are you for waste?]] Was it not a burden on the families, Mrs Colleague, when the school trips were deleted? For example, has the tax exemption been suspended during the last two years? – Every family father who used to have a tax exemption has felt it monetary. Wasn't that terrible? – And you have agreed that you have agreed to all of this! Since today you want to make it a "stern hour" that a family will receive 3 000 s per child in 1999? To a day of joy you celebrate? – Such a theatre, as has been mentioned in the speeches today, is a new variant! Then put everything on the score and say [[Abg. Koppler: Score and Anton!]] We also have poor families, and you agree that an income limit is now being introduced for increased family support for more children. This is even the overrun, because it concerns 100 000 families who have to live with the family income you want to cover today and prescribe to the families. One must not earn more than 42 000 S gross in order to be worthy of increased family support. You will also decide on this cover today. They thus turn hundreds of thousands of families into bitters. Because what do you do to get a special promotion? – You have to ask, you have to go beg, and you may have to thank yourself. For something we have been taken, thank you very much. This is just as if a thief or a burglar returns 10 percent of the stolen goods and the injured person has to thank him again a hundred times for getting something back. The same thing is this change in the family tax equalization law that you will agree to! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] A "stern hour" of the Austrian families, Mr. Federal Minister – I agree with you because the Austrian families today notice that you have adopted family policy at the time and have not yet found it back.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e12493	President. — The debate is closed. Mr deputies, you have a voluntary speaking time of 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e12514	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). It would be a contribution to the debate culture in the House if not all that comes from the government would always be made worse by the opposition! [[Abg. Madl: You just have to tell me! Then do something good at last!]] You're really blind on one eye, Mrs. Colleague! You have the simple pattern of behavior: The opposition makes everything bad that comes from the government. That's a little bit for opposition policy! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Madl: Do something good!]] You should be a little more objective, Mrs Colleague, a little more objective! No matter what punch you choose, whether "stern hour" or whatever: Indisputable is the fact that such a financial boost to the family has not taken place in recent years, Mrs Colleague. I'm asking everyone who's sitting here: When we're honest – I don't take it –: Who would have believed it a year ago if we had said there would be a family package, from which the families would get 12.5 billion schilling? I don't take it, I too have doubted that this will succeed! So honest should we be: A year ago this probably hardly any of us believed, and today we decide it, today it is reality! A vision has become reality with this package! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! And I'd like to say something else today. After just admitting that a year ago I too doubted a little more, I must say: I was really concerned about the consequences with which our family minister has been involved. I think that should be said once such a decision has been taken. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A man from the economy who deliberately said: I would like to put a strong emphasis on family here! Dear Mr. Family Minister! You have to say that. I admire you because I knew how difficult it will be to implement it. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Hallelujah!]] You've risked a lot, but you've had the chance, and you've won – in favor of the families. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! But it would be – and I must say that too – not fair to say that such a reform does not come about without the Minister of Finance. That wouldn't be fair. We must be fair and say: The Minister of Finance – every Minister of Finance! – in such a reform, there is a smiling eye – in favor of the family – and a bit of a tearing eye from the budget perspective. But this Minister of Finance is carrying this package, and that is what we should hold. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is not a matter of course at a consolidation rate, and I believe that this – and we should hold on to this too – is already a first important part of the 2000 tax reform. We should also be so honest as to say that today's decision-making - and this is what we are saying from the People's Party - a target group on tax reform has achieved its goal. That, of course, the margin for tax reform 2000 is also conscious – consciously, we wanted to do so! – has become smaller, one must honestly also say about it. I only call three priorities for tax reform 2000, because we should not only discuss what has been in the past, what has been in recent months, but what is still happening to us. And the challenges of the next few months will be enormous, ladies and gentlemen, because this double strategy: Budget consolidation, on the one hand, but offensive strategy within the meaning of a tax reform 2000 is a very difficult task, I would say: the square of the circle: In fact, it is something like the square of the circle, this double strategy, on the one hand, to consolidate the budget, on the other hand, but on the other hand to drive offensive strategies towards tax reform 2000. So I would just like to mention three tasks which seem particularly important to us, after the improvements in the family we have already decided on. First point: Employment policy. I think that the tax reform 2000 must be in the service of employment policy, that is, in the face of all the difficulties: discharge of work. And I say immediately, the alternative will not be the value added! The second priority will have to be the ecologicalisation of the tax system. That is also extremely difficult, very difficult, Mr President. [[Abg. Meisinger: Again!]] This is only possible if we manage to address this issue during the EU Presidency in order to create a European equation. We still need a lot of consciousness. This will be the primary task because here a national single entry will not be possible. But these are real challenges that need to be clearly identified. The third point, ladies and gentlemen: Of course, we also need a tax relief for the powerful middle class. Performance must pay off in this country, and therefore, despite all budgetary constraints, we also need a tariff correction. [[Complementary of the Abg. Dr. Fekter]] I am very glad, Minister of Finance, that you have already said publicly that, with all the difficulty of the budget, we need a tax relief in the sense of a tariff correction. The enormous challenge is that a tiny change in the tariff costs between 10 and 15 billion schilling. Mr Finanzminister! We have confidence in your person that, with our support, you will create this huge act of strength, that this double strategy will go into the next millennium, on the one hand, to maintain the budgetary consolidation rate, on the other hand, to pursue offensive strategies, and on the other hand, there will undoubtedly be a need for expenditure-oriented policies in the sense of a savings policy to finance these projects. I do not announce a savings package, but, please, it is simply necessary that we continue to run on the expenditure side of the course which we have already taken with the last budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e12628	I now give the floor to the Federal Minister for Finance. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e12649	Mr President. Mr Bartenstein! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take advantage of the opportunity of the debate on the budget accompanying laws to lose some of the comments of a basic nature on the budgetary situation and on the issues that we will be dealing with in a massive way over the next two years. First of all, I believe that it is remarkable – and this is not at all an act of self-devotion, because I personally held this function only for a short time in the difficult phase of fiscal consolidation – that in our country it has succeeded in getting out of a phase of an internal dynamic of the federal budget and the public budgets, which the budget deficit has deteriorated from 1.9 per cent to over 5 per cent in the years 1992 to 1995, not only structurally, but through targeted measures of fiscal consolidation, to achieve the reverse effect. This has led us, as one of the few countries in the European Union, to halve the budget deficit without facing the social escalations that other European countries have experienced in the last two years. I believe that it is especially the political climate in Austria, the climate of the major political parties, the involvement of the social partners, the debated issue of conflict in Austria, which has enabled us to prevail towards many others, that in the Ministers of the ECOFIN on 2 May, the European Parliament, the Council and the Council of Ministers of the European Union, the Council of Ministers of the European Union and the Council of Ministers of the European Union, the European Union and the European Union, have taken note of the fact that the European Union and the European Union have been in a position to take part in this process. In May, the declaration adopted considered the concept of dialogue with the European Social Partners to be one of the key points in order to ensure that this European Economic Area is cultivated, socially balanced and effectively developed in the future. I think we can actually imagine that. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] And a second: I have always said – and I repeat here – that the phase of budgetary policy from 1996 to 1999 can be seen as a unity. It is completely impossible to bring budgetary development – especially when it comes to changing structures of expenditure too – from one year to the next, without creating escalations in any area. For every change in a system of taxes and taxes, as well as in promotions and transfers, every change creates distress, concern from the subjective point of view of people who want to recognize the overall interrelationships, and that for good reasons, not at all, or at all, need not and must not. It is therefore particularly difficult to seek and ultimately find a way of a certain balance, a certain tolerance. I was therefore very proud of the fact that, without mentioning this in particular, the EMI also stated, in its convergence report Austria, that it is particularly remarkable that the rapid budgetary correction and consolidation of 1996 and 1997, which was admittedly achieved with a sum of one-off measures, would not have been done otherwise, in the 1998 and 1999 forecasts were replaced by measures of a certain sustainability. However, I also say quite openly in this House that the consolidation result that we can see in 1999 – and I assume that we will come to Maastricht in general on a deficit of about 2.2 percent – is not permitted to reject us. I'm saying this with all the clarity. We must find in a process of constant alertness and constant review of our expenditure, but also our revenue positions, the way in which we can achieve a long-term budget result, ensuring that we can also live with our budget in the event of an economic recession, perhaps in 2001 or 2002, without ad hoc measures. This will be a very big challenge that we must face. And I say quite clearly – and I said that right after the outcome of the negotiations in the field of family taxation – that I have two souls in my chest in my position as Minister of Finance. Because – and this is said far too rarely – in a phase of consolidation to implement such measures, whether these are transfers or tax deductions that have the same effect, namely to spend 12 billion schillings in 2000, in order to solve a problem which is not in fact unimportant in a political compromise, is certainly not easy. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, please don't be angry with me: Of course, there are different social positions between social democrats and Christian Democrats! If two parties decide to rule together in a coalition, it is most important to try to reach a compromise if there is no change in overload. And this has been successful, ladies and gentlemen, dear. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I am very pleased, of course, if you praise me in return for the Social Democrats – no, not you, but you, and if Bartenstein is praised for the Christian Democrats. [[pointing to the ranks of the liberals]] [[turn to the ÖVP]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In fact, the Coalition Government here has brought amazing results for two thirds of the Austrians, because 5 million people live in families that are positively affected by these measures. And that is a very crucial factor! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] It may be – yes, I am quite sure – that social democrats alone have made a different form of family tax reform, as have Christian Democrats alone. But that is not crucial, but it is crucial that we remain true to the principle of equal value for every child. It is crucial that there are additional incentives for more socially weak families, up to a certain amount of income, and that the negative taxation, which is particularly important for single parents, is carried. If sociologists, if social researchers are right, families with many children are in danger of reaching the poverty line. And then, above all, single-parents – these are mostly women – are in danger of getting to the poverty line. That's why we added to it. And that is why the package has grown up a little, but it is socially acceptable, and for this I stand, ladies and gentlemen, with all the consequence and with all that I believe in politics. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] One last comment: I do not think we should use the debate on the budget accompanying laws to explain social visions, such as family and marriage and similar ones. I'm sure we're still working on this. I have here my specific views, which are certainly not entirely comparable to those of the Minister for Family Affairs, but this is not relevant to the 1999 budget decision-making. I would also like to say to you in all openness: This phase of four-year fiscal consolidation and the stabilisation of the consolidation objective at the level – although thanks to God still slightly degressive – of the target year 1997, also projected at 1999, does not leave us the obligation to reflect on the form in which we bring the tax reform 2000 to the stage, a tax reform that gives precise answers to where we need to change structurally in order to improve Austria's economic location in international competition, where we also need to take into account the social components of fiscal policy while maintaining convergence compatibility. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! There has already been a discussion on the factor of work, on the ecologicalisation of the system. It has also been referred to as tariff corrections. There is no question that all of this should be discussed in this context, and, in addition, I refer to examples of finance ministers currently discussing in Europe, finance ministers who do not belong to my political party at all, we also need to consider how, in connection with such a targeted tax reform, we also deal with the taxation of capital, namely investment capital. If, as you foolishly say, you must not lose sight of employment policy in the objective of tax reform, then it is legitimate to also think about how capital, which produces employment, is being treated, and how that capital is treated, which actually brings only returns. This is part of this connex, which we will discuss in the next half, three-quarters of a year. And I am actually very glad that this coalition government has decided to make a tax reform in 2000 and not such a 1999 one. For we do not want a tax reform of the electoral gifts that nobody believes in anyway, but we want an honest, sustainable tax reform. I know it would be more pleasant to promise people everything possible, but I am not available for that. I am at the disposal of a fair effort to bring about a tax reform in this government, together with all its colleagues, which meets the requirements of Austria's economic location, the social component and the principle of balance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e12763	The next speaker is Mr Gaugg. Mr deputies, your club still has a speaking time of 12 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e12785	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Minister of Finance Edlinger tries the square of the circle. It's always a incense cloud inside here when government members speak. It is overlooked that the entire budgetary policy – thank God, I must say – is also being observed internationally and that the OECD is already very clearly pointing out that these budgets presented by you include a number of shortcomings, namely, deficits of a fiscal nature. But now you promise a tax reform 2000. I am curious about how you will fulfill this without burdening the people again! [[Federal Minister Edlinger: Happy!]] Happiness is a good way forward for economic development. Should it only be a small one... – Yes, it is right, Minister! [[Federal Minister Edlinger: What does a depper do with happiness?]] I assume you're not a "depper" or you're not in the government. At least I assume that, although I am now and then doubted by individual members. But take a position on the OECD report, which says very clearly that fiscal requirements should be more stringent. Only: You don't trust yourself because there are 1999 elections! But perhaps to disturb the "Fest of the Family" in the government a little – just a little –: In the supplement 1099 there is again something that proves that you have actually learned nothing, but the unapproachable post chesser is still refined. There are 13 members of the national debt committee. It consists of seven members of one government party and six members of the other. In order to increase "efficiency", a Party policy balance is now being created. This is certainly not what we need, Minister of Finance! You should use your time for something other than such a post-chapter advance! The second: No one should have more than ten supervisory functions. And now it's going to be very fine: Business conglomerates should not be included. I always wonder... [[Abg. Müller: How many functions does Mr. Prinzhorn have?]] Look, the difference to Mr Prinzhorn is that he is a very successful person in the private sector, and those who send you to the Supervisory Boards are all party-political candidates. [[Complaints with the liberals]] [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] And now I'm gonna tell you something because you're always talking about some dubious postings: Their share of stolen goods is much higher than any other. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: What's going on now? That's absurd!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] You from SPÖ, you, the representatives of SPÖ, have stolen 15 000 Austrian workers with your "consumer" debakel – with your friends in the Supervisory Board! That's your kind of politics. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You stole 15 000 people from the workplace. [[Abg. Koppler: Where? Where?]] Mr Koppler! We don't even talk about the VEST what was there once. [[Abg. Koppler: There you can talk! You have no idea!]] The VOEST is sleeping with you in a debacle, 80,000 jobs are gone. [[Abg. Koppler: No one has become unemployed!]] But that doesn't matter, essentially, Mr Koppler is sitting here, has his van, his chauffeur and his deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e12926	Mrs Binder has now come to speak. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e12947	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Mr. Family Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My colleague Madl is right, the world is stage, Parliament is stage. I just wonder what role does Mrs Madl or Mr Gaugg play in this, for example. Ladies and gentlemen! It is nice to live in a country where every party can celebrate. The one celebration due to adoptions or judgment announcements, we celebrate festivals with the families, with the children in Vienna. I think it is nice that we can celebrate this in this country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Another point, which Mrs. Motter has made: The issue of poverty is a very serious one and is very concerned. But I mean, in this context, when it comes to the poverty of children, we must also talk about children who are on the verge of society, above all about the fact that their parents have little or no income. We need to talk about that too. As Mrs Rauch-Kallat quoted from our draft Party Programme, perhaps another sentence to supplement: For us, the right of self-determination and social responsibility are crucial. Ladies and gentlemen! It is about allowing different forms of family. My life truly does not correspond to the pattern of how one imagines a classical family association. I think that even the life of Mrs Rauch-Kallat did not always take place in the classical, eternal family association. [[Intrusion of the Abg. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] And that is why I believe that we must allow the different forms of families that people choose. It's about the quality in which families live together. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The wish is often the father of thought, especially when Mrs. Col. Rauch-Kallat believes that the knowledge of the Constitutional Court has been implemented. It has not been implemented, and this has already been done by colleague Bures. A compromise was implemented, which Mr Edlinger has very clearly described today, which is a compromise between the coalition partners: in the sense of the Austrian families and in the sense of the children, because the children should be at the heart of our reflections. Ladies and gentlemen! We can be quite satisfied with this family package. What it means has already been carried out. I am convinced that, unlike complex tax forms, children are directly encouraged by these measures, and social justice too, we are getting a little closer. The planned expansion of infrastructure, such as childcare facilities and family services, can only be sustained by a family policy that meets the needs of children and families. That is why I am very pleased with the additional support for care facilities, because these are essential support for families and above all ensure the quality of care for our children. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In this context, I would also like to draw attention to press releases and also to Mr Bartenstein's reply to a request that the guidelines on funding for the allocation of kindergarten millions be re-established and revised. The logical continuation of all day kindergartens is the afternoon care of schoolchildren. A small example from the city of Amstetten: Here was found by an initiative of women's associations who want to build a hort. A negative decision of the State of Lower Austria was adopted on the application for funding, although it is stated in Section 6 of the Child Care Act that there is funding for the establishment of such facilities. However, according to the competent official, that is dead right. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, this cannot be the last conclusion of wisdom, and I trust in the Minister's word that, in cooperation with the countries, the experience of the directives will be incorporated and revised. Ladies and gentlemen! It is important to close gaps in childcare. Family policy is more than financial support and more than financial support for families. In the future, not only the costs incurred by parents through their children, but above all the quality of the care facilities and, above all, the importance to me, the promotion of the quality of the relationship between parents and their children should be the focus of public interest and public discussion.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e13035	Mr Dr Höchtl. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e13057	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Although the decision-making of the Family Tax Reform has received all possible names today, one thing, I think, must already emphasize: The people concerned, at least over 1.8 million children and their parents, are those who can really enjoy these new framework conditions that we create and decide today. We should be happy about this, we can celebrate who always participates in it. Not those who criticize, but those who decide to do so create the new conditions. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Secondly, Criticism is always necessary, especially if it is a competition for better ideas, because no one has eaten the wisdom with the spoon. But if I sometimes only hear a pity that everything is bad, then I would like to tell you one thing, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen: This does not improve the quality of politics, we should all remember! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Thirdly, I do not want to repeat the dimension of this package in detail, but one thing is clear, namely that we probably would not have come to this reform so quickly, there would not have been people who have resisted. I felt that it was extremely positive that these persons lodged a complaint with the Constitutional Court, which has accelerated the entire reform process. Of course, I have been and many of us have been very happy that the negotiations have brought about so much, but one thing is clear, that we naturally have to see the whole thing in connection with the big tax reform of the year 2000. We have come to know this because the discharge of the families is an essential cornerstone for us in tax policy terms, and 12.6 billion schilling is not a blatant – I would like to tell the critics – but that is a very essential package. After all, it is 6 000 S per child and year. That's a big push, I'd say, the big throw for the families we made this decade. And I think all those who have only made some contribution to this should be happy about it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Family policy, of course, is not just a material policy, and I believe that the compatibility of work and family is something that we need to take into account in the different dimensions, which we must work more closely on, whether it be flexible working hours, whether this is qualified part-time work, whether it is support for the return of mothers or fathers to work, whether it is possible for job-sharing and so on and so on. I think there is a great deal of qualitative, conceptual work that we need to do in order to create a family-friendly climate. But this is what we can say: If we take this big step as part of the whole major tax reform today, it is a conscious step, a step where we can say that this is a real political will, which is clearly evident in the budget figures. We have come to know the relief of the family, we say a clear yes to the family, we represent a lobby for the children because the children are our future.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e13120	The next speaker was Mr Ddr. Decliner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e13156	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! I want to deal with those families that have children who study. We also have a novel on the Studienförderungsgesetz. In essence, this House knows what it is all about, namely that those students who receive a scholarship would not make this novelle, in principle, not be excluded from this family support. Debates of the European Parliament The problem has been considered, and we therefore have to decide on this novel. It is a temporary decision-making procedure because this House will be dealing with a really larger innovation in the field of study promotion once again in this year, where there are certain changes in the system as a whole. The aim is to achieve high-cost grants for those who are in fact solely dependent on them in order to prevent a high level of professional activity from delaying their studies. Further objectives are to strengthen the promotion of working students and those in the second course of education, to take account of additional expenditure, such as for long journeys, which have to be set aside, to increase the promotion of foreign scholarships and the like. So this is a whole series of points, and I can now announce that, if we have this package in the house for decision-making, we can take another really important step for the students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e13186	The next speaker is Mr Auer. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e13207	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! It would be very easy to give a brief speech and say that what both Ministers have said is a hundred percent duty. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP, as well as with representatives of the SPÖ and the Liberal Forum.]] Nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen, a few sentences. I was pleased – it should not be a rumor – that today some members of the opposition have had difficulties in not being able to complain about what was said by the two ministers, because in reality they would have to do with what they have said to the family today, if they are honest. Ladies and gentlemen! That this great package has become possible is due to the excellent financial policy, economic policy, the rising economy and the political framework. This family package of 12 billion Schilling is a milestone in the political history of our country. That's exactly 12.6 billion. But at the end of the day one more request to you, Minister Bartenstein: At least consideration should be given to how to resolve the problem of injustice in school bus-free travel between city and country children. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I urge you to take care of a fairer solution. It is not understandable that one can get up in the city at the nearest stop and one can tell the children in the country three kilometers to the next stop or one hour waiting time. It can't be like that in the long run. I therefore ask that a milestone be set in this case too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e13258	Mr Magz (PPE). — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, Mr Steindl to speak. Similarly, 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e13279	High house! Minister! I would like to comment on three points. It has already been said a lot today. Point 1 – Family taxation, the heart of this conflict of law: There is undoubtedly a success of the government here, and I also thank our Minister for Family Bartenstein, who has been working hard for the ÖVP. Why Success? – Because just 30 percent more money is available for family benefits, because this is really a unique example within the EU, Austria is one of the most family-friendly countries in the world, and because it also relieves children-rich families of tax burden. Point 2 – a reference to the Financial Balance Act: There are 1.2 billion schilling available for childcare facilities, funded by federal government and country. That's the second tranche. As mayor, Mr Minister, I am very grateful for this because the communities are the kindergarten holders. I myself came to the delight of a first tranche as mayor in my municipal community. We can be proud of the fact that in Burgenland we have a supply of over 90 percent in this regard. That's Austria's record. We are now dealing with improvements in the opening hours, so that we can offer more quality accordingly. And the third and last point, namely the amendment of the Studienförderungsgesetz: This was undoubtedly always a matter of concern to our science spokesman Dieter Luke, namely that the increase in family support should not shorten the funding of studies. There are about 27 000 students who are dependent on this study grant. We can therefore rightly give our consent to this budget accompanying law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e13319	Mrs. Dr. Sonja Moser is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e13341	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! We're at the threshold to 21. ==References== Europe must be united and deal with reforms. We face major challenges. We want to expand the European Union. We are introducing a common currency. We want to create a common security system. Europe must therefore show itself to be a strong unit, a powerful counterweight to the USA and the Asian region. In a world of increasing globalisation, Europe will only be able to claim itself if it acts as a strong unity, and for that is and remains the family of the central and most important community of modern society. Of course, this is about the income of the families. We want materially safe families. But it would also be a completely inadequate reduction of the facts to believe that we are fighting only for the tax relief of the families. I do not have to carry out the dimensions again, they have already been clearly presented today. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] Only, if our Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein had not been a hard fighter and if he had not been very sporty in the "ideological grave" for 13 months, then we would not have achieved this result for the families, namely a tax relief of 12.6 billion schilling! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] For me, children cannot be reduced to cause poverty or to disturbances in life and career planning. Families only have the future if we strengthen them emotionally – simply and simply because our children are to grow up in happy and stable conditions. We must therefore signal social policy that children and families are welcome. Families need time for each other to develop their relationships and carry out their tasks. Therefore, my appeal to the economy to document well-functioning business agreements for the relief of women and families and to make them more public and accessible to the public in order to stimulate and raise awareness. There are already 600 to 700 companies who voluntarily participate in the action "Taten instead of words". Consciousness is also at European level. I am proud to mention here that the Austrian Institute for Family Research has become a European Observatory for Family Policy for the next six years. It has prevailed among 17 competitors from all over Europe and is now intended to represent and inform about the development of family structure and habits of life. It is also about the comparability of national family policies, for example, with regard to the taxation of families. The Observatory consists of a coordination group, which is a network of science, policy and administration at EU level. We can, by making children's interests visible, on the one hand, represent further potential conflict over existing family policies, but on the other hand we can also approach them and offer assistance and solutions. My last concern is to anchor and protect some kind of shadow boxing, namely family and marriage in the Constitution. There is this already in 13 of 15 EU countries, so it is practically comparable. Financial policy, we heard, does not call into question the double promotion of divorced parents for us. Structurally, it is a deeply rooted basic need for children to enjoy a lasting relationship. I'm allowed to quote Tony Blair here, who said: Children with two parents have a head start into their lives.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e13401	Mr Kurzbauer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Similarly, 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e13422	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The Minister of Finance has pointed out that the consolidation rate started in 1996 was successfully continued in 1997 and re-indebtedness was reduced to 2.7% of GDP. This successful consolidation course will continue in the coming years 1998 and 1999. In particular, reform measures should slow down strong growth in certain expenditures, making the state narrower and more efficient. Social distribution justice and balance continue to be a priority. On the other hand, impulses should be set for ensuring employment and promoting our economic location. Ladies and gentlemen! Today, the 1998 budget accompanying law is on the agenda and the family, the family package. Allow me a few comments on the Environmental Promotion Act, because this Environmental Promotion Act is particularly important for rural and local jobs. With an annual budget of 3.9 billion schilling, the settlement water industry is the most important funding and investment area. As already in 1997, the 1998 budget accompanying law provides for a special tranche of 1 billion schilling in cash promotion for the water construction sector. A total of 4.9 billion schillings are available in 1998, and these 4.9 billion schillings generate an investment volume of 14 billion schillings. The construction period in the water industry is on average two to three years. It is estimated that the average employment effect in this area is 1 000 jobs per 1 billion Schilling. [[Abg. May. Peter: What happens to the channel fees? - You're exploding!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The promotion of the 1998 urban water sector therefore means the security of some 14 000 jobs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] 14 000 jobs mean strengthening the regional economy. Of course, strengthening the regional economy means increasing value added and increasing the value added of additional investments – and this is the conclusion of this circle. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This budget accompanying law creates important conditions for the future. We very much agree with this draft law.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e13465	Mrs Rosemarie Bauer is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e13489	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! The best investment we can make in our generation is to invest in our children, because this is at the same time an investment in the future. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: We all do that, and a lot: time and money!]] Today, the opposition parties tried to play this 12.6 billion schilling, which will be available to families from the year 2000. I must say that we are very pleased about this success, and I would like to join with all the thanks, because I actually believe that in this case we have succeeded in implementing the tax legislation for families that are a century or at least a decade's work. We should be happy about this. The families and the children are the winners of this measure. I am very pleased that on the display of the SPÖ I find the headline of a 14-day press release from me: The children are the winners. And I am firmly convinced that this is the same. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am pleased that we are able to support the medium-sized families and also the multi-child families, for the multi-children's staggering has always been the concern of the Austrian People's Party. In order for each child to be equal in value, a different funding should be provided, in which case by number and age of children, because in our view this is the most just form of support for the families. I would like to stress once again - I believe the Federal Minister has already said it - that, in the event of a low level of taxation, the Single-parents or single-earners get paid the deposit amount cash to their hand. 6 000 S more per child – 62 percent of families have two or more children, for them there are 12 000 S or 6 000 S more support per child – are a very important contribution for Austrian families. Let us not forget, ladies and gentlemen, that the Minister of Finance also ultimately benefits, because this money comes back to him, probably even to a large extent, because the families are consumers, and they consume the money in Austria, in our country, and actually put it back in the economic cycle. Thus, this money will also increase to a special extent. Also important is a good infrastructure for the families. The 600 million schilling available for childcare should not be left un mentionable. I think it is important that – and so we have understood the desire for women’s people – this money benefits children under four and over six years of age who need extra-family care. I mean, this budget-accompanied law, which, of course, also has other contents, actually deserves the name "family-accompaniment law".
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e13533	Mr Ellmauer has also been mentioned on the floor. Similarly, 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e13554	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Some 20 articles are adopted under the present budget accompanying law. From the content, of course, these – which has already been carried out today – are very different, but all these novels have a common goal: Budget consolidation will continue. For the population, the most noticeable is the family package. It means another crucial step towards greater justice for families. This family package partly takes into account the desire of the Constitutional Court to pay more tax on maintenance. A total of 12.6 billion schilling is provided for families. The maintenance of the multi-children's season in full was particularly important to the People's Party and to me, since families with several children have to bear greater financial burdens in accordance with experience. Federal Minister! I can say a thank you at this point that you have negotiated so persistently and that you have succeeded. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The accession of Austria to the European Union and our will to join the euro from the beginning obliges us to comply with the convergence criteria in the future. This also commits us to a reasonable fiscal and public debt policy. The times when the taxpayers could be spent with both hands and the state has become overly indebted are finally over. A high level of indebtedness in all areas – whether in the case of state or in the case of private – leads to poverty sooner or later. That is why the government parties have decided in recent years to take savings measures. In this context, I would like to draw attention to the following problem: The budget deficit is 70.1 billion schilling, which is 2.6 percent of gross domestic product, which is certainly a respectable result. But this statement does not say anything about our real problem, the old debt. According to estimates from March this year, the total debt of the federal government in 1998 amounts to almost 1 544 billion schilling, and we pay about 95 billion schilling on interest this year. The average interest rate is therefore 6.2 percent. Of course, I know from practice as a bank director that the average interest rate on investment loans for commercial firms is now less than 5 per cent. In other words, it means: The federal government is too expensive. With a reduction in long-term interest rates by about 1.2 percent, the interest rate burden on the federal government would be lower by 19 billion schilling annually. These 19 billion schillings would, of course, give us scope for the tax reform 2000 but also facilitate investment promotions. I am aware of the fact that the financing of the federal debt cannot be remedied from today to tomorrow. And although we are good in comparison with the European countries, I still believe that we need to become more active here. Our aim must therefore be to change the current forms of financing. We must try to achieve more favourable conditions, taking into account the capital market. A wealthy country also includes secure finances. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am therefore glad that the Minister for Finance has presented a good budget. My group and I will therefore be happy to vote in favour of this budget accompanying law.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e13615	Mr Kröll is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e13636	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Many of us today have been very pleased to have been shown here with a plug as a lobby for children. We are indeed – and this is evident in many examples – in local policy, in the countries and also in the federal government a real, yes, the family party. And that is why we are on the side of those who can rightly enjoy themselves today from the very heart. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My previous speakers from the Austrian People's Party have already pointed out the importance of the family in Austria for us. I am pleased that we have achieved a real breakthrough with this family package, and I thank all those involved. In particular, and above all above all, I thank our Styrian family minister Dr. Martin Bartenstein for his long breath and the right way to a right result. Thank you very much! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Family policy was and is always a focus of the Austrian People's Party's Government and Society Policy under Wolfgang Schüssel in this country. And from the point of view of the communities, the investment of 12.6 billion schilling, which is now being provided for the families, is a particularly noticeable financial contribution, which can also be spent: as purchasing power in the places, in the regions for the small and medium-sized economy. That is not to be underestimated either. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! For us from the Austrian People's Party, it was always clear that all our families were concerned: not only with single parents with a child, but also with large families with more children. These are very dear to us. Mr Bartenstein and also Mr Financier explained that it is also part of the consolidation of state finances, the budgetary policy, that we are giving families a preferred tax reform. This does not mean, however, that we are at the end of consolidation, but we are all still called on – the Federation, the Countries and the Communities – to make a common consolidated budget policy in the longer term, because of which families have the most in the long term. The social components in multi-child families are reinforced by this model. Often enough, the situation of multiple-child families has already been addressed by the People's Party. The risk of poverty of a family with three children is five times that of childless couples. This is a clear indication of the need to set particular political priorities. Now a new multichildren's season is being introduced for poorer families. For example, a multichild supplement will be granted for multiple families from the third and for each additional child. In 1999 it is expected to be 200 S per month for each third and additional child, with effect from 2000 400 S per month. It is all right for the family compensation fund to pay in future for families with more than three children per child below the income limit of 42 000 S gross 400 S. The multi-child supplement, the multi-child season, is to be designed as an income-related performance. This will ensure that families are socially and specifically encouraged, taking into account their financial situation and their number of children. As a further focus in the family package, I particularly welcome the "childcare billions", awarded by 600 million of the federal government and another 600 million of the countries, and point to the great achievements of the municipalities that they provide in addition to these benefits: by providing new kindergartens, but also through childcare models. Here, to a large extent, the needs of the population are met. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! 12 billion more for Austria Families mean 12 billion schilling more purchasing power, that is, 5 million Austrians go better. I am therefore pleased that the use of the People's Party has been worthwhile. Mr. Family Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I think we should all be pleased that there is a great winner, namely the families and the children.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e13708	No one is reporting on this. That concludes the debate. A conclusion by the rapporteur does not take place. We are entering the voting procedure, and I ask the ladies and gentlemen to take their respective place. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1161 of the Supplements. Hiezu is in favour of a separate vote by Mr Mag. Trattner before. I shall therefore first vote on the parts affected by the request for separate vote and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. We shall therefore proceed to a separate vote on the subject. II and XVI as amended by the Committee's report. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. I shall also vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. In the case of your consent, I also ask for an appropriate sign here. – This is once again the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. If you would like to accept the draft law in third reading, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This too is done by the majority. I note that the draft law was adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1162 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to stand up for this bill to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. We shall therefore come to the third reading immediately. If you want to agree to the draft law in third reading, I would ask for a sign to be given. – This too is done by the majority. The draft law is therefore adopted at third reading. 17. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (1096 of the Supplements): Federal Act amending the Federal Finance Act 1998 (BFG-Novelle 1998) (1163 of the Supplements) 18. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (1097 of the Supplements): Budgetary Overrun Act 1998 – OCT 1998 (1164 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e13816	I now call on points 17 and 18 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are entering the debate. Mr Magistrate has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Trattner. Rest of the time of your club: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e13846	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! It has always been common practice so far and also in the interest of the Federal Government that in the case of privatisation the ÖIAG has been used. Now we have the case of the Köflach Railway Company, which is owned by ÖIAG and its concession as at 31. ==References== Now one wants to go the reverse way, namely that one sells from the ÖIAG again to the Federation, to the Ministry of Transport and then looks for someone to make a privatisation, and perhaps this society will then end up again at the ÖIAG. Mr State Secretary! On the one hand, in the Government paper we have just dealt with - we have already discussed this in committee - 1099, we have confirmed that this area is free of charge from the Federal Ministry of Science and Transport. However, in the Government template 1096, there is an amount of 1.8 billion schilling of payments for Graz-Köflach Railway and Mining GmbH. What's right now? Is the Government's draft 1099 that it should be free of charge, or is the Government's 1096 proposal that 1.8 billion schilling be taken care of? In this context, it should also be noted that, according to a written response to a request made to the Minister of Transport, it would not be necessary to give this company away from the ÖIAG or to transfer it to the Federal Ministry of Transport. It says quite clearly: There are currently interested parties for a concessionary or owner. – Several domestic and foreign interested parties have already reported. Mr State Secretary! What are you doing? – The Ministry of Transport says there are interested parties, there is no interested party in the Ministry of Finance. In the Ministry of Finance, we want to move this society away from ÖIAG and spend 1.8 billion schilling on it. What is this privatisation strategy supposed to do? Do you want to privatize? – Then leave them at the ÖIAG if there are the all-rounders there! Otherwise, simply confess that you no longer want to privatize. [[Complaints with the liberals]] Mr State Secretary! In this context, I would like to mention a request from Mrs Kammerlander from the Greens for a written question. Because of this Graz-Köflacher Eisenbahn- und Mining GmbH, she asks, among other things,: Due to the strong personnel reduction at the SKB, a financing gap is found in the pension institution of the Austrian private railways. How should the coverage of this funding gap take place? What is the amount of financial support promised by the federal government? What other arrangements have been made to ensure pensions? The answer was: As a result of the annual high losses of the railway operation, the reduction in the staff of the SCI was essential regardless of any ownership. - That's all right. – As the financial gap resulting from this can be concluded at the Pension Institute for Transport, this is a question which falls not within the decision area of the Federal Ministry of Science and Transport, but within that of the Federal Ministry of Labour, Health and Social Affairs. The answer to this question is as follows: April. We have the government template, according to which 1.8 billion schilling has to be applied, from the end of March. There the government offices should already "coal" a bit, so that not one says this and the other something else. If a question is asked and there is the possibility of answering this question on the basis of this government proposal, then one should do the same. In the course of this debate on this BFG-Novelle 1998, due to the high tax pressure in Austria, there is a problem with the tax and tax rate in the order of 45.7 percent for 1996. We know very well that due to the re-evaluation of monetary differences, the Oesterreichische National Bank has made 10 billion shillings in return. This is quite good and beautiful, so the Minister of Finance has a basket money so that he can restore his budget. But this has nothing to do with a successful structural budget policy, but that is just a hole stop. However, we want to have these 10 billion schillings in a reserve for a tax reform, which will eliminate the cold progression for Austrian income recipients. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That is why we make the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e13936	The motion for a resolution which has just been read is properly tabled and supported accordingly, and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Sigl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e13961	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! As a politician two years ago, Mr Trattner, a former colleague of yours, Mr Rosenstingl, made the offer to buy the Mariazeller train by 1 S. I recommend you now make an application for the Graz-Köflager, and we will offer. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! With this bill to be dealt with by us today, the Federal Government is responding to developments which were not predictable or non-estimable in the preparation of the 1998 federal proposal. These changes which have now been made are in excess of the various estimates of the 1998 Federal estimates. The 1998 Budget Overrun Act provides for balance-neutral redundancies totalling around 2.5 billion schillings. These overall amounts may be covered by additional revenue and by reserves. In addition to this, the estimated deficit of the 1998 budget remains unchanged. Most of the excess amount will be applied to the recovery of claims of the motorway and highway financing company against the federal government. The other excesses are caused by contractual obligations and by the provision of additional resources for the continuation of administrative activities. For example, the additional costs of administrative reforms, the euro changeover and computer expenditure in the financial sector as well as higher costs of the Federal Army for Security Control at Graz and Linz airports result. Furthermore, in 1998, additional expenditure on executive, gender and police under the Telecommunication Fees Regulation, which no longer provides for exemption from the frequency-use fee for Federal Services. On the other hand, savings are expected in financial liability for the promotion of literature and also in the maintenance of financial offices. Similarly, a deposit will be dissolved in the cash register management. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Once again, I would like to point out that this law, as I mentioned earlier, does not increase the end of the general budget. This fact is certainly due to the good work of the Federal Government, in particular the Federal Minister for Finance Rudolf Edlingerround his ministry. That is why I would also like to ask you to agree to this government proposal. Finally, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would ask you to include this in the treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e14058	The just-readed amendment has been properly submitted, duly supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Stoisits. Rest of the time of your club: 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e14082	Dobar ve#er, poštovane lady i gospodo! Mr. State Secretary! Last year, with deep conviction, I rejected the 1998 budget. My deepest conviction is confirmed by these modern novels, the Federal Finance Law Novelle and the Budget Overrun Act. If the budget were so good, these novels would not be necessary, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. But since each thing is known to have two pages, these two legislative proposals have not only negative but also positive sides. The Federal Finance Act is pleased to have money for the local radios – a promise, the Federal Chancellor Mag. Climate, but also State Secretary Wittmann have made several times; these are those responsible for media affairs and at the same time also popular affairs in the Federal Government. That is why I am pleased that the estimate "Volksgruppenförderung" approach for 1998 will be increased by 50 million schilling. However, this amount is decided, apart from the otherwise general approach, used for the promotion of popular local radios. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, These are two local radios, one in Burgenland called "Mora", multilingual open radio, which will make radio programme in the languages of theburgenian residential population, not only in German, but also in Croatian – also in the language of the Roma and Hungarian minority, namely in Hungarian. The second local radio, which can be promoted by this change of law, is radio Korotan and Agora in Carinthia. This is also a multilingual local radio, i.e. German and Slovenian, which will make a very important contribution to the understanding between the ethnic groups in Austria on the one hand, but on the other hand will certainly have a great "branch force" beyond our borders as well. I would like to say this positively. However, the Budget Overrun Act also has a good side, namely that Austria is also making a monetary contribution in its efforts to combat the global evasion of mines, although this contribution to the misery caused by mines worldwide is not very high. But 5 million Schilling will bring Austria to the United Nations Fund for the Protection of Mine Victims. I very much welcome this - especially with regard to years of use by the Green Group's colleagues in the pursuit of landmines. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, it is important for me to make these two statements here, although it is not my general assessment that these two novels are not the yellow of the egg as a whole, and that is why we will not agree to you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e14131	Mr Sauer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Rest of the time of your club: 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e14152	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! In this government paper with the Federal Act, which aims at overcoming expenditure rates, a number of points are addressed, such as the Federal Ministry of Education and Cultural Affairs, the education of schools and trade academies. I do not want to deal with the individual figures, but rather with a problem. A number of young people have recently approached me who have attended a vocational school and have complained that they do not receive a practical place because the economy in many areas says no to practical places. I know, however, that if the economy did not tax them financially, it would be very likely to start up interns. One could now go two ways, ladies and gentlemen, either to remove the practice of duty from the curriculum or to give companies the opportunity to accommodate these trainees, because this training is intended not only to contribute significantly to the further work experience from school quality but also from practice. Our task should be to give young people, in addition to good education in school, the opportunity to expand their knowledge and skills in practice. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Perhaps you could say now that I would have missed the subject because I did not speak on the real issue, namely budgetary overrun. But it is my concern to break a lance for these young people, so that they have the opportunity to put their husband or wife in their later profession. And with that we help not only young people, but also families.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e14192	Mr Gaugg is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Still speaking time of your club: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e14214	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I take the amendment of the Federal Finance Act as a reason to make a motion for a resolution on the Olympic application of the city of Klagenfurt with the partners Slovenia and Friuli/Venezia Veneto. This seems to us to be urgent, as the inactivity of the President of the Committee on Application, the Minister for Ex-Health, poses the danger that this application will end in a debacle. It has now been set up in Carinthia in order to advance the application, and I believe it is also essential that the Federal Government issue a corresponding commitment or guarantees to the International Olympic Committee, as the absence of the required guarantees may endanger the application.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e14280	The motion for a resolution which has just been read is properly tabled, duly supported and is therefore under negotiation. The list of speakers is closed and thus the debate is over. A final word from the rapporteur does not take place, and we are immediately entering the voting procedure. I would therefore ask you to take your place. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we are voting on the draft federal law, which amends the Federal Finance Act 1998, including the title and receipt in 1163 of the Supplements. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Mühlbachler, Sigl and Comrades tabled an amendment concerning Art. I Z. 8 and Art. II Z. 2 introduced. In view of the fact that there is only one amendment tabled, I shall immediately leave the draft law with the title and receipt in the version of the Committee's report, taking account of the amendment tabled by the honourable Members. Mühlbachler, Sigl and comrades vote. I would ask the honourable Members of the House to give an appropriate sign in the event of consent. – This is the majority. The application is therefore accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. If you would like to give your consent to the draft law at third reading, I would ask you to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft budget law 1998 and the title and receipt in 1164 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this bill for a sign on this point. – This is the majority. Accepted. We shall therefore come to the third reading immediately. In the event that you wish to agree to this bill at third reading, I would ask you to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. The agenda is exhausted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Trattner and comrades on the formation of a deposit from the more revenue of the Oesterreichische Nationalbank. [[Ironic cheerfulness and intermediate calls.]] I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to stand up for this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Dr. Haider and comrades on the inactivity of the Austrian Federal Government in connection with its application for the 2006 Winter Olympics. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Business treatment!]] - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e14343	Mr President. This is a motion for a resolution which is self-evident, and an independent motion for a resolution requires a contentious, factual connection with the motion for a resolution. I would like to ask whether you have examined this, and I would also like to ask the question of what this context is. – If this is not the case, a vote on it is inadmissible.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e14375	The context in question is in the wider sense of the budget, and this was also justified by Mr Gaugg.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e14397	Mr President. It is not a Federal Finance Act, but a BFG Novelle with very closely defined changes in the 1998 budget itself. On these amendments, namely to the Federal Finance Act Novelle, there should be a context of content, but not the budget itself, because this is not the subject of the decisions to be taken by the National Council today. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Budgetful measure!]] And that is why such a request is inadmissible. I assume that you have examined this before.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e14429	I look at this request again. [[The present proposal is not present.]] [[Call the SPÖ:Now there is no application! Where is the application? Is there an application?]] – The application was made with the original signatures, and from here it was also visible that copies of them were available. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Business treatment!]] Mr Dr. Haider, Member of the Commission, on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e14477	Mr President. The application itself points out that it is the acceptance of liability which the Republic of Austria has to make to the International Olympic Committee, as a prerequisite for the implementation of the Olympic Games. That means: It is certainly a matter of course a matter which is typically connected with the financial instruments under negotiation and therefore no question at all that this request is under negotiation.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e14508	I still give Mr Klubobmann Kostelka the floor and I will interrupt the sitting afterwards so that this request can be made. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e14529	Mr President. The thing is very simple: Today, quite certain points of the Federal Finance Act 1998 are under discussion. These certainly have no reference to the 2006 Olympic Games. [[Call to the liberals:Leikam!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Extraordinary is President, and you are preventing that!]] This request does not in any way require the acceptance of liability for the 1998 budget year. First of all, we have a general debate tomorrow, the budget chapter Top Institutions and the Federal Chancellery are on the agenda; there is also the sports area. There is up to a certain degree a reference to content – but certainly not today!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e14578	I am now interrupting the sitting to take another look at this request. The sitting was suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 7.51 p.m. and resumed at 7.55 p.m.)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e14605	I'll start the interrupted session again. Before the interruption, Mr Haider had reported on business treatment. – He's withdrawing the message. Mr Klubobmann Dr. Khol is speaking. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e14638	Mr President. I call for a part-session to be suspended until tomorrow, so that we can clarify the internal context in a "normal" session until then and then carry out the vote. [[Call to the liberals: No!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Don't get into question at all!]] I would also like to know whether the request has been properly submitted. For example, he's not available to me.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e14695	I should like to clarify the latter question: The application was properly submitted and is also supported accordingly. He was here at the Bureau, he came from the officials to me. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Khol slept while enjoying it! That's his problem!]] He was already involved in the previous speech by a liberal Member, but was not read by him. It was intended that Mr Trattner's request should have been read, but he then read another request, so that finally Mr Gaugg had read this request. Then the original went back to the officials and was passed on from there, I think, for the purpose of copying. I think you have appeared here and have agreed that the application will be copied. [[Calls.]] – Please, the activities of the copy staff are withdrawn from the Bureau’s control here. That is what I wanted to say, Mr Khol. Please, Mrs Stoisits.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e14732	Mr President. It is not known to me that there would be a business regulation requirement that a request, which is a motion for a resolution that is self-employed, should be read from the pult, should be made in writing to the political groups. If that's the case, I'm asking for information. In any case, I have heard Mr Gaugg read this request here. The fact that there is a real link with the item on the agenda seems to me to be quite clear and clear, because it is a novel of the Federal Finance Act with numerous points relating to the budget and budgetary implications. And this proposal, he would find a majority here, would also have an impact on the budget. I therefore support your approach and ask for the immediate vote to be taken on this self-evident motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e14763	In addition to business management: Mr. Dr. Haider. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e14784	Mr President. In view of the fact that the application was properly submitted, sufficiently supported and under negotiation, I should like to point out that the text of the motion for a resolution in item 2 provides for a clear acceptance of liability and guarantee, which is also the subject of current deliberations and voting in accordance with Article 9 of the 1998 Federal Finance Act, and that, of course, any decision on that application would also have an impact on the Federal Financial Act and should therefore be voted on.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e14817	Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Kostelka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e14838	Mr President. First: I should like to remind you that in the President-in-Office we have examined several times the issue of the subject matter and have assumed that there must be a close, direct relationship. Secondly, In this context, Mr Haider has advocated a legislative decision which he would be able to bring in – even today, even at any other plenary session. But the decisive thing in this context is that the novelle, which is to be the subject of this, so to speak, the support rocket for such a request, has no reference to sporting relevance, only the federal financial law behind it. There is no reference to what we are voting on here. [[Abg. May. Stadler: such a fool! That's a pot! That's not to be represented!]] [[Call out to the liberals: great!]] [[Further calls.]] [[President Dr. Brauneder gives the bell sign.]] I would therefore like to draw your attention to this, Mr President, because the parliamentary procedure is nevertheless relatively transparent. [[Call to the liberals: Kostelka is wrong!]] There will also be a resolution on the budget tomorrow from my group on this matter. That, what's here...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e14916	Please let Mr Klubobmann speak out!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e14931	What is being tried here is to make a decision in a lack of context, while avoiding the Rules of Procedure, and I ask you not to allow this to happen in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. There is no sport in this Federal Finance Act-Novelle!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e14983	High house! I would like to say the following: The request – I repeat that again – is properly submitted and supported accordingly. [[Abg. May. Stadler: And be in trial!]] There is no doubt about that at all. In the text in which the Federal Government is called in a certain way, the word "guaranteeing" appears. The explanatory statement on this motion for a resolution expressly refers to guarantees. I therefore see that there is a material link and I note the following: I remain in the process of enshrinement that there is an objective link, and I insist that this motion for a resolution is under negotiation and therefore comes to the vote. [[Abg. Mr Kostelka: Mr President! Finally, refer to the text of the law!]] We are therefore continuing in the voting procedure. I would like to repeat this last item on the voting procedure, namely: We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Dr. Haider and comrades on the inactivity of the Austrian Federal Government in connection with its application for the 2006 Winter Olympics. There has been a request for a roll-call vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. It is therefore appropriate to vote. I shall proceed in such a way as to allow the vote to take place by calling on the Bureau to take place. If you wish to accept the request, it is loud and reasonable to reply with the word "yes", in the opposite case, loud and reasonable with the word "no". I would ask you to make the vote easier by avoiding the noise scene as much as possible. We'll get to the name call now.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e15041	I am interrupting the vote on the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e15069	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote: With "Yes", 41 ladies and gentlemen of the House voted with "No" 101. The application is therefore not accepted. With "Yes", the Members voted: Antoni, Aumayr; Blünegger, Böhacker; Dolnschek; Gatterer, Gaugg, Count, Grollitsch; Haider, Haidlmayr, Haigermoser, Haller, Haupt, Hofmann; Young, Kammerlander, Koller, Krüger, Kurzmann; Lammer, Langthaler, Leikam; Madl, Meisinger, Mertel, Hans Helmut Moser, Müller; Oils; Partik-Pablé, Preisinger, Pumberger; Salzl, Schöggl, Schweitzer, Stadler, Stoisits; Trattner; Van der Bellen; Wabl, Wurmitzer. With 'No', the Members voted: Ablinger, Achs, Amon, Auer, Rosemarie Bauer, Sophie Bauer, Binder, Brinek, Brix, Buder, Bures; Cap; Dietachmayr, Donabauer; Eder, Edler, Ellwall; Fekter, Feurstein, Fink, Fischer, Freser, Fuchs, Fuhrmann; Gaal, Gazner, Grad Wohl, Gredler, Guggenberger, Gusenbauer, Hagenhofer, Heindl, Heinzl, Höchtl, Horngacher, Huber, Hums; hunters; Kaipel, Kampichler, Karlsson, Kaufmann, Doppelmüller, Khol, Kiermaier, Koppler, Kostelka, Herbs, Kukacka, Kummerer, Kurzbauer; varnishes, leiners, lichens, lurks, lurks; Maier, Maitz, Marizzi, Mock, Morak, Sonja Moser, Motter, Mühlbachler, Murauer; Neisser, Niederwieser, Nowotny, Nürnberger; Oberhaidinger; Perfuss, Parnigoni, Pittermann, Platter; Rada, smoke-callat, riding, Riepl; Sauer, Schieder, Schrefel, Schuster, Schwarzböck, Schwarzenberger, Schwemmlein, Schwimmer, Seidinger, Sigl, Silhavy, Stampler, Steibl, Steindl, Stippel; Tegischer, Tichy-Schreiter, Drinkl, Tychtl; Wallner, Wimmer, Worm; Zweytick. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e15238	I would also like to say that at today's sitting, self-employed applications 770/A to 773/A have been tabled. Questions 4405/J to 4411/J were also raised. Finally, a question by Mr Jörg Haideran has been put to the President of the National Council. Findings concerning the unpunished absence of a Member
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00120_d7e15268	I note that Parliamentary Peter Rosenstingldie's session has remained distant, and I am not apologising for it. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Thursday, 14. In May 1998, 11 a.m., with the following agenda: Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (1100 and 1100 of the Supplements): Federal Finance Act for the year 1999 and Investments (1160 of the Supplements). The following chapters will be discussed in the Advisory Group I: Chapter 01: President's office, Chapter 02: Federal legislation, Chapter 03: Constitutional Court, Chapter 04: Administrative Court, Chapter 05: Public Procuratorate, Chapter 06: Court of Auditors; from the Advisory Group II, Chapter 10: Federal Chancellery of Services, Chapter 13: Art (including economic compensatory estimate) and Chapter 71: Bundestheater. There is no Question Time at this part-session. I would remind you that a presidential conference will take place following this meeting. The sitting is closed.
