ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e2579	Ladies and gentlemen! It's 9 o'clock, and I'm gonna open the 152 for an hour. Meeting of the National Council. The official protocols of the 150. He proposed that the Court should reply as follows: ==References====External links== Meeting of 28. November has remained up-to-date, unconstrained and is thus considered approved. For today's day as prevented, the Dkfm Members are reported. Holger Bauer, Haidlmayr, Ing. Langthaler, Mag. Stoisits, Anna Huber and Dr. Irmtraut Karlsson. Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e2613	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: "Neighboring – Victims of Overregulation" The first speaker is Mr Magistrate. Peter. His speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e2643	Mr President. Minister of State Dr. Farnleitner! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! After 50 years of overregulation, local supply is obviously on the ground. The urban cores are thin, rural communities are losing their close supply and thus quality of life. Overregulation, over-bureaucratisation in the area of shop opening, trade regulations and labour and social law have reached the opposite of what they actually wanted and should. Local services die – with all the negative effects we can see. There is great inadequacies. The Federal Minister is holding close-up questionnaires, countries are thinking about promotions, but in the end the consumers decide on the local supply: according to their needs, according to the price and what we have little in mind, especially after the shopping experience. The Vorarlberg Government has received a petition, signed by more than 2,000 Vorarlberg citizens, who have clearly directed the Vorarlberg Government, that the actions put by the merchant Otto Pircher in Bregenz benefit the consumer because he has worked in an initiative and in a imaginative manner on his market and has responded to customer wishes. The overregulators' response to this was: Complaints up to 350 000 pp. This citizens' initiative, which I quote, literally carries out: "The merchant can survive on site only if he strives for a better, more competitive offer, regardless of the existence of a wholesale in his catchment area." - How right! And she goes on to say: "The offer of the local merchant must therefore be attractive and of value to the consumer. It must meet the individual needs of the consumer to a greater extent than, for example, the wholesale markets, and its products must cover all the needs that consumers have on the spot." – End of the quote. Ladies and gentlemen! I am very glad that 2,000 Vorarlberg citizens had the courage and the strength to face a merchant who has sought innovative solutions and has received complaints in response to them. The chance of the small near-suppliers lies in the niche. To ban these with overregulations means to deliver the near-suppliers in our country to bankruptcy and thus to lock up! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The big fish eat the small ones, we know, but they eat only the slow little fish! Customer orientation is mobility, is the speed of small suppliers, is the chance of the little one against the big ones: the chance to sell what customers want to sell it to when they want it and as customers can need it. Opening hours can only be specified on a site-specific basis. An Austrian-wide shop opening law is totally nonsense, that also says the citizens' initiative mentioned in Vorarlberg. The range must be adequate for demand – it is necessarily restricted by the trade regulations – and the service must be customer-oriented. The latter is not possible through working time legislation. Liberalisation means allowing new answers to customer wishes and not prohibiting them. Ladies and gentlemen! Those who, like the Austrian Chamber of Commerce, believe that small businesses must be protected will in fact block their way into the future, rob them of their adaptability and thus prevent their quality of service and thus their market chance. The results prove yes: Close-up care in Austria is dying. This is a real social problem. Sure: Close-up suppliers have lost price competition in relation to wholesale markets. That's not a question. But local services basically mean something different than what wholesale markets offer. Close-up care means ensuring the quality of life of people, providing emotional services and also taking into account the rights of those people who are not mobile. Ladies and gentlemen! Let's give the near-suppliers a real chance! Let's set up a shop opening law, which is superregulatory, to be able to arrange the shop opening Austria, from Burgenland to Lake Constance, from the forest district to southern Carinthia. – This is not possible because it does not meet customer requirements! Let's give the shops the opportunity to lock up when it's necessary, and especially when customers want it! And finally we open the trade order to give local suppliers the opportunity to sell the products and offer the services that consumers want at some point in time! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] In a small place there are few customers, but there are very concrete, short-term needs. Therein lies the chance of close-up suppliers. Cooperation with agriculture, for example, has not been sufficiently advanced. The farmer's market, on which the producer himself offers its products once a week, would have the opportunity to offer exactly these products to local suppliers on the other six days of the week! This partnership with agriculture is still far from well-trained. The near supply of the future is already available today. There are them as neighborhood centres in village places, there are them in street trains with an experience character. Think about the Neubaugasse in Vienna, very close to Parliament: People got together and asked: How can we make our alley attractive and worth living? - And see, it works! There, too, local care works better than in other dying road trains where no initiative is taken. The competition of shopping centers, the markets will always exist. Federal Minister! I think your determination of the 800 m2 rule is nothing but a monopolization of the current providers. I think they are not in conformity with the market and therefore they are wrong. But close-up suppliers answer needs other than the large shopping stamps! They have other, specific, regionally defined customer requirements to satisfy and are highly emotionally anchored in their area. Ladies and gentlemen! Neighborhood stores are, purely business-based, coverage contributions collectors. You have to conduct a range that is purely customer-oriented, especially regionally, even locally customer-oriented. This can go from food to hygiene goods, drugstores, short goods, photo development, traffic goods, lottery receipt – possibly also a post office where post offices no longer return – to an integration into a guest house! You can't estimate what this House has done with the senseless tent-fixing scheme. I'm not saying that because I want to ban tents. Tentfests are good when people go. But that you have decided a tax discrepancy of competition – under the pressure of the fire brigades sitting on the gallery – has been a big mistake. Create You will also have a clear level of competition for the nearby gas house in Flachland, which, thanks to your decision, can now lose its cover contributions in the summer months from May to September and cannot survive with the turnover from October to April! Near delivery is a variety of offers in one area – for example in the neighborhood center – to satisfy the customer's wishes. Approaches work where they were not banned, for example in the gas station shops. I know. In the gas station shops you can buy Coke and Milk by 7.30 p.m. After 7.30 p.m. you can still buy Coke, but no more milk. - That's ridiculous! There are control ears going around and writing ads because the woman Müller still bought milk instead of Coke at 8:00. In the tourist centres the local supply works. But I'm asking you: Why Give You just buy our guests the quality of life, when they want to? Why Give You don't have this quality of life for the domestic population too?- Oh, my God! No one must, if he does not want to, work in the evening and on Sunday and holiday. It is not true that our society consists only of families with children, single mothers and religiously oriented people. Only 25 percent of households have dependent children, only 15 percent of people go to the service on Sunday, and thank God only a small percentage of single mothers. Let's give all these people the opportunity not to work on Sunday and holiday! But let us give the others the opportunity to do this work if they want. A 1998 Spectra study says that 44 percent of people consider working time to be a good thing, 17 percent want Sunday work to be generally permitted, and 27 percent say: partly. That means nothing but: There are enough people who want to satisfy customer needs and thus secure employment by themselves during these times. There is therefore no need to include the other two-thirds or three-quarters, which do not want to be included in these working hours. Have the courage to open society! Have the courage to allow local care again! Let us, ladies and gentlemen in Parliament who are responsible for this, place the market with an economic and social perspective. If we free him from his prison, he will work again in the area of local care! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e2783	On an opinion on the topic of the current hour, if the microphone is working again, the Minister for Foreign Affairs will report to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. [[in the attempt of Minister of State Dr. Farnleitner to set the microphone to the right level, it disintegrates in several parts]] - Please, Minister. Your speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e2811	Mr President. High house! – This is how the rhetorical locality works! [[The microphone is operational again after some attempts.]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Now to the problem. My House, after changing the shop opening times, such as the trade regulations in which we have changed a few things, has tried to discuss these problems in detail with the economic operators involved. At least one point was clear: Most of Austria's close-ups are locked because consumers are getting away from them. The complaint we hear across the bank is that the traditional weekly purchases of long-lasting consumer goods are at least taking place in central markets, while the close-ups then only sell more milk, bread and all that is needed every day. Most of them cannot live in the least and therefore give up. – This is a part of the facet, which is what the cause analysis is about. I agree with Mr Peter. Remember the shop opening discussion: At the time, I myself suggested that there be no distinction between tourism communities and other communities. The Austrian citizen should be spoiled everywhere and not have to be tourist to be spoiled more! – This is a principle position. We have planned other opening hours in the shop opening for Pendlergemeinschaften at that time. We have provided other opening hours for family businesses. We have provided for other opening hours for local centres and have given corresponding authorizations to the heads of state. This has only been done in the least cases: in Bregenz and in Salzburg, in family businesses only in Burgenland. This means that we have not come very far in the implementation of the more liberal shop opening right. – This is once a statement of the state. At the time when I adopted the Shopping Centre Regulation, I agreed with the representatives of the relevant economic sectors that these measures should be accompanied by two further measures: by a stronger local marketing, a local centre marketing, and by a flexibilization of the opening hours in the centres. I get letters almost daily from merchants who write: If I could only be open in the evening when something takes place at the main square in our place – an event such as in Wiener Neustadt – then I would have more customers during this time than during the whole day! – This kind of flexibility should be possible. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Mother.]] We have also made it clear in discussions that it is not a question of liberalising companies with foreign workers, but I still personally consider it extremely useful that family businesses who want to take care of their customers should be allowed to do so if they want it, and not only if anyone allows it. – This is my basic position. Now to the problem itself. In the meantime, we have clearly seen that Austria has become one of the top riders in international comparison with regard to the square meters of sales space. In the meantime, we also have the lowest number of small close-up suppliers in Europe. The Shopping Centre Regulation – and I do not think so, Mr Peter – has done so; I note this when I look at the letters of protest I receive. [[Congratulations to Mr Haigermoser and Mr Tichy-Schreder.]] After all, it is still the trend to build a home market in every larger market community and in the environment a supermarket. And where a supermarket chain – no matter if it's called "Spar", "Adeg", "Rewe" or "Billa" – starts to build once, there are all three others one year later. If this trend had continued, we would not have 7 000 small close-up suppliers now, but perhaps only more than 1 000. Therefore: I would stick to this measure, but I expect the additional measures to be taken. We're at the In the course of this discussion, a separate BÜRGES-Nahführungs-Förderung 1997 was introduced. I can tell you that from this close-up action, 121 companies with a total investment of 261 million have made use of some 18.5 million schillings. I also see cases like the following over and over again, therefore my desire for a uniform investment law. Last week a baker called me from the Weinviertel. He said that he surrenders the operation to his son, and on the occasion of this transfer the administration is approaching. All the installations suddenly no longer match, and the son says: Then I'd rather go to Billa's bread-winner than continue your business. We will still have a lot to do in relation to a uniform system law, which we hope will be dealing with very soon here in the house. Another point is that we must ensure that what "passes" into sales practices today is finally checked. I am not a prioritizing mention of the ban on sales under the price of income. But it is my concern to note that some large chains pay their bills only after 60 days and exert enormous pressure, while small buyers have no chance to offer even nearly competitively similar positions. We have been on the question of sorting from Lotto to Post x-time and can say: Most of the small entrepreneurs surveyed say: That's not our future either! Of a few stamps, of a little lotto we can't live either! – The "general store", as he suggests to all who know America, will not be able to live in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! My strategy is therefore: We will maintain the Shopping Centre Regulation, we will continue the promotion actions and will continue to work with countries and communities in order to achieve greater proximity to consumers through the necessary central measures or liberalisation of flexible opening hours, especially in family businesses. One point seems to me to be extremely important. We set up a working group in my house. We call them "tele communities", and I bring an example of this. In a Lower Austrian community in which the last Greißler was to cease, the municipality has introduced a "smart card" with which it is ordered and then delivered. – And suddenly again, many Greißlers were in the village. It is necessary to organize local consumers in order to explain their loyalty to the merchant. Because if consumers no longer want their close-up suppliers, politics has lost its right. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e2918	Computers are just living beings, they don't always work. We are going into the debate. The speaking time is 5 minutes. Mrs Klara Motter is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e2945	Mr President. Mr. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Minister, we don't even move that far apart. But I really ask you seriously: Why do it? You no longer want us to keep the business open? I would like to go back to the precedent in Vorarlberg, because it is my concern and because the people there are vehemently behind two merchants who have allowed themselves to introduce other business times for themselves, even for reasons of self-preservation. Ladies and gentlemen! You may all be aware that in Vorarlberg, also due to the three-country corner, the clocks go differently again. In October, for example, two smaller food merchants opted for more flexible shop closing times. One merchant kept his grocery open from Monday to Friday until 9 p.m., another decided on a Sunday morning sale from 8 a.m. to 12 p.m. Well-marked: The Sunday opening had been achieved without foreign personnel, only with family members who were not in the employee relationship. Both merchants believed themselves in the right, as their businesses are located in a designated tourist community. They saw their business as a result of the increasing competition of wholesale markets and the increasing number of gas stations selling around the clock at risk – they were already fighting for their survival. Success was a true storm of over 500 enthusiastic customers on the first Sunday morning. Also during the extended evening sales there were good revenue and enthusiastic customers. – A true success for all involved. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! But what happened in the future? — Actions brought by the Federal Chamber of Labour: 360 000 S for sale on Sunday and 350 000 S for unfair competition in the evening sale. Even in the Chamber of Commerce – in this case I speak consciously to you, Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, one could not come to a uniform opinion. In the Chamber of Commerce Vorarlberg there were divergent opinions. If officials of the Chamber of Commerce cannot agree, how can officials of the Federal Chamber of Labour first agree? Conclusion of merchants: They have resigned and have had to understand that people who wanted to work and want to adapt to the needs of consumers have failed to the interests of powerful chamber officials. Ladies and gentlemen! Today, I ask you deliberately: Where do we live? [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] We live in a country where there is still no understanding that a healthy economy cannot live by bureaucratic barriers and in which the creation of new jobs is prevented by artificially sustaining economic forms condemned to death. Ladies and gentlemen! A healthy economy, including with new jobs, lives on new ideas and working conditions, which enable the economy to develop as unhindered as possible to respond to the needs of consumers as well. This seems to have been seen by the Vorarlberg state government. My colleague, Mr Helmut Peter, has already referred to the petition. This is a remarkable step, and we may be excited to see how the Federal Government or, in particular, the Federal Chancellor will comment on it. Ladies and gentlemen! It is known that we Liberals have long launched an economic offensive. We have often referred to the 1996 Coalition Convention and its passages on the economic sector. We have made various requests on shop opening times, but also new business start-ups. I am aware that we must all help together. Minister! I ask you once again to really do something. I would like to point out once again that more than 30 requests have been made by us in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, all of which are aimed at providing our services more efficiently. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e3020	The next speaker was Mr Heindl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e3041	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Mother! Mr Peter! These are really nice goals that you indicate, and I do not hide that I have sympathy for some, but reality does look different. Mrs. Mother! You said that we did not discuss this issue in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. At the last meeting of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, it was true that the various political groups, including the opposition, had different opinions. If we are already discussing this issue today, I will give you an example. It was Mr Petrovic who meant that the high rents were due, for example, in Vienna to the fact that the supply of close-up services came to an end. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Peter.]] Please listen, then you will learn how to prove examples, how it doesn't work – I'm saying "feeler". In Stammersdorf, in a new residential area with thousands of new tenants, a free rent has been agreed in order to establish a local supply company. They've been advertising to all those who live there. This company could remain open as long as he wanted, but after a few months it was over. Why, Mr. Peter? - Because you can't prescribe to the consumer where and what he has to buy. You can't. I cannot share your opinion if you think it will work if we release everything, even without regulation, according to the principle of 'catch what one can', so who wants and how he wants. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Peter.]] Above all, the question is: Then who's in business? Mr Motter criticised the fact that a member of the Federal Chamber of Labour was excited. I represented similar ideas two years ago, because I have always asked myself the question of what could be done to make it work. After two decisive events, I have seen that this is the wrong way. To me came a woman who was not a 25 and had two little children on his arm. I'm not saying which chain she worked on. She was forced to work in a wide variety of times. I inquired, and it was true. She said to me: Doctor, can you tell me how to deal with this problem? I can't afford to lose my job. I'll tell you one thing: At least on Saturday and Sunday, it should have a mother the chance to stay with her children. You, mys. Ladies and gentlemen, sue men and women who work for such people!Unknown term type: "%s".? No, we Socialists will certainly not go along with this path! That's false liberality! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They preach total liberalisation. This morning I read: Shopping Centre Regulation, Factory-outlet-Center, the pensioners drive by bus. Do you really want to ban people from going there? Freedom is given in every direction. I can't say, Lock up, it's going to go, lock up as long as you want! I'll tell you one thing: You have not offered a clear concept in the competition between the individual small caregiver and the large businesses, and you can't do that, unfortunately – I emphasize "sufferer". I would also like to have it in Vienna – there I am at home, I know myself quite a bit – at every corner there is a barber where you can buy. You can try to tell the consumer: Please, go there, this is important to you, you can shop around the corner, you don't have to drive by car, it's easier. But he then makes the big purchase in a supermarket where he has the product and price selection. The "Gurkerl War" ultimately benefits the consumer again, but you can't ban it. We will discuss the topic "Sale under the price of income". But here again: With regulation, we will not solve this problem. We see the good intention of the local delivery regulation. I was skeptical; the Federal Minister knows. Today's trade magazine says: Despite the political dispute over the Farnleitner regulation, economic prospects are good. – In other words, the trend to continue investing more in shopping centres, to offer even more of these sales areas, will ultimately lead to a stronger competition for small people around the corner, which I would like to see as much as you do, Mr Peter. In Vienna it has been tried in recent years with marketing for shopping streets. I agree completely with you: Yes, these are the help you can offer. But the legislator can't do too much. This is marketing that the subjects can make. The legislator cannot prescribe the place where the consumer is to buy. [[Abg. May. Peter: He can allow it!]] We've tried different things, and I can tell you one thing: If we could find a way that served both consumers, small and medium-sized enterprises and those who did it, then I can only say to my group and myself that we would sign such a scheme at any time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e3095	The next speaker is Mrs Tichy-Schreder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e3116	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Peter! I wondered about the topic of the current hour "Nahsorgung – Victims of Overregulation". [[Abg. May. Peter: I thought that!]] Mr Peter! Very simple. They're talking about the shop opening times and the business order. But, in fact, these two are not at all at all at risk of close-up. [[Abg. May. Peter: That's it!]] Everyone appreciates the local care. My food dealer was at a big event on "near supply" and said: Wonderful interests, very good. But I'm asking you all who are working for local services: Do you also go to a small grocery store instead of just working for it? Because that's it. But there's something else to add. You talked about the shopping experience. That's right. Customers want it, and they have accepted it. Road actions in the cities, for example in Vienna, have been launched. There are very touchy entrepreneurs who are trying to offer people shopping experiences. But I would also like to say the following: The Federal Legislator does not need action in this case, but very much is decided at the political level in the countries, communities and cities. If you are in the cities the accesses, the parking for the consumer, while large parking spaces are created outside the cities, which are free of charge, where you can access cheaply and your own departures are available, and at the national legislative level facilitates the construction of large centres, while making everything difficult for the city merchants, then you need not be surprised if the proportion of local supply in urban and rural areas is reduced. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The municipalities and countries are invited to take action in this case. But there is something else we need to deal with, as I believe,: It is also about market power and practices in these areas. Sales space has increased by 118 percent over the last 20 years – this is huge! – but there was also a concentration of chains and companies in individual commercial areas. In the area of drug markets, two companies in Austria account for 70 percent of the market, ladies and gentlemen! In the food trade, five companies in total Austria make 88 percent of their sales! Mr Peter! I would have liked you to sit there where there is an uneven competitive environment. It is known that a food dealer has to catch his deep-frozen rest himself, pay for himself, while the chains consider it natural that they are provided by the supplier with a freezer free of charge, dispensing services by coating shelves by industry. If you demand more liberalism and more market, you also have to put pressure on the big ones, the industry, the producers. That is the problem! What do we do? – A narrowing of the offer, the consumer gets the same goods everywhere. And that's a problem! That's where you've got to sit! We have to deal with this! Mr Mag. Peter! I was surprised that you did not speak of antitrust law. I know that the Federal Minister in the Federal Government is particularly committed to creating a new antitrust law for which I am very grateful. That's necessary... [[Abg. Haigermoser: This is huge! How long are you waiting?]] Mr Haigermoser! They themselves know exactly how difficult different legal regulations were to enforce. It will be time for us to stand up for the creation of a antitrust law, which, as I believe, we can do. Other issues must also be dealt with at other levels. I also wish the consumers – and I invite them to do so – to buy them from their close-up supplier.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e3187	The next speaker is Mr Haigermoser. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e3209	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! As far as Helmut Peter is concerned, I believe that the Federal Minister's shopping centre regulation is a suitable instrument for getting things under control in peripheral areas. I don't like to say that again. But, Helmut Peter, the story really isn't that simple: Lock up 24 hours, and the evening country – the local supply – is saved. [[Abg. May. Peter: This is polemic!]] If you put on such a milkmaid bill, I think that's the deepest Manchester-Liberism. U.S. Tag UK, Manchester Liberalism: There's this recipe there. What's the close-up look like? – This is a local supply desert! So we do not want to imitate these examples, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] So I would rather be an orderly liberalism, ladies and gentlemen, where it is possible for the middle class to act economically. Mrs. Tichy-Schreder! Antitrust law: All right, we know very well that the antitrust law in Austria is toothless. Last example: Mr Farnleitner had muscles played on the occasion of the Rewe/Billa deal. He meant that he would make himself strong with the antitrust law in order to limit the exploiting market power. – He saw that the antitrust law in Austria is a nonsensus. You, your party, have prevented, especially at the request of other multis, a suitable antitrust law in this country! That's the truth! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If, at last, you are calling for the creation of a antitrust right so that market power can be restricted, I can only say: ==References====External links== December tell your grandchildren under the Christ tree, Mrs. Tichy-Schreder! Finally, stop wishing for what you could have done for yourself! In the recent edition of "Real", the trade journal in Austria, you can read: 12 per cent of places without close-up! - That's an alarm sign. Federal Minister! The gap in local supply explodes. Thin lip confessions can be found in questions that I have selected some of. In 1995 Mrs Hagenhofer made himself strong in a parliamentary question, i.e. also verbally, for the near-suppliers. At that time, Mr Wolfgang Schüssel, the thousand-sassa, his sign and Minister of Economic Affairs, answered. Ladies and gentlemen! So that means you're slow! You've given lip confessions, but if it's "invaded", then you're at the dive station. I say to you, ladies and gentlemen: Of course, there must be regional opportunities to make better use of shop opening times – that is not a question – but a general extension of the opening hours has until now only used the multis; There are examples of this. And I say to you clearly from a liberal point of view: The intention of being locked up on Sunday is an attack on the middle class, at the same time against the families, finally also against the valuable full-time jobs and against the apprenticeship training places. That is why you will not find us in this field in this attack, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We say: Fingers away from Sunday, because we are also responsible for culture in this country. We want the near-supplier to survive in the village and to play with the wind music on Sunday and to be active in the fire brigade. That can be a meat for you, Helmut Peter, that is not a sausage for us, and we want this cultural concubine to live together in this country too. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] That is why we have a close-up between the economy and the workers and are opposed to this cheap one-hundred-market or one-and-a-half-hundred schilling jobs, which is why we are tearing down the families and breaking down the entire social relevance in this country. We're not there, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Of course, this also includes spatial planning. Now I come back to the red-black kamarilla, ladies and gentlemen. There's a mayor named Bieringer, he's also a federal councilman who runs over the law, on the green meadow he builds one building after another, also black buildings, and then says: Now we're entering a market, it's already been built, now you can't do anything anymore. Mr Schausberger, the head of the state of Salzburg, is there the head of robbers; and Mr Buchleitner, the head of the socialist state, lets red papers distribute for the jobs in this black construction, ladies and gentlemen, knowing that a job on the green meadow destroys three jobs in the middle classes! – So I would not open up such an account as a Social Democratic! Ladies and gentlemen! This is cheaper populism! You always blame us. I'll tell you: What is happening in Salzburg at the moment – Buchleitner, Schausberger – is cheaper populism and does the breaking of the law, ladies and gentlemen. We will not agree with this. We are in favour of an honest local delivery policy with corners and edges – but not for Manchester-Liberism and for lawbreak. There's no way we can agree.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e3275	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Gabriela Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e3297	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that you only burn the topic of local care among the nails in the early days comes a lot late. Actually, long ago, 20 years ago, the alarm signals had to scream. Minister! They have submitted a novel to the shopping center law a year ago, which is to propose a bar to the establishment of further shopping centres in the future. This is what you have done because local services are already collapsing, because local services have gradually been undermined for more than ten years, I even want to say, over 20 years. You've been trying to throw a last rescue anchor. Thank you for that. Please, don't let this novelle be liberalized again. But you threw the rescue anchor a lot too late. You of the ÖVP and you of the SPÖ have'sawed' for years on the local supply. How? – First of all: The spatial order in the countries, in the municipalities, was extremely close-to-supply, because the mayors – we speak openly – wanted to deposit the taxes from the supermarkets. The railway was free for large markets because they brought money to the municipal funds. The train for the local supply was adjusted, and the barriers went down. We know that local services have a social and communicative aspect and, above all, transport policy and in terms of general supply offer much more favourable structures than a shopping centre. There's the rabbit in the pepper! The question of spatial planning should have been dealt with in good time. That's the one point. The second point: You have said quite correctly, Minister, that consumers cannot be forced to decide for themselves. The consumers drive to where it is cheaper and they can easily find a parking lot. You can create the framework conditions for this! Consumers would much rather shop around the corner if there was still the offer there. This offer used to be available. The "shopping around the corner" is less time-consuming and also more socially interesting. He, as it were, also maintains neighboring relations. But this "shopping around the corner" was undermined by a transport and spatial planning policy that always favours large businesses, large shopping centres. They have not made sure that the shopping centres also pay for the creation of the necessary infrastructure, as it would actually be cost-effective, including, for example, the cost of the access routes and the parking offer in their price calculations. I have heard here and today that the antitrust law has long been in need of innovation. In fact, something would have to be done in order not to withdraw the basic condition of existence with offers at local prices. We must finally consider how traffic and parking for the shopping centres could be carried out economically. We need something like a "traffic excavator" which really justly distributes the loads, because shopping centers attract Transport and therefore also attract economic costs. I'm pleading: Make a strong contribution to "trafficking" so that equal opportunities can finally be created in this respect! The aspect of shop opening times introduced by the Liberals is secondary to me. The main areas of transport and spatial planning are: However, I would like to say clearly and clearly: We are against the fact that the Sunday rest provisions are being eroded. There must be core social times in which communication in the families, in friends and in the neighborhood is possible. [[Abg. May. Peter: Don't question anyone!]] Through a total liberalisation of working time, day and night, throughout the week and throughout the year, we would no longer have social core times. For me, the issue of local supply is not about questions of shop opening times, but about a customer-oriented offer at fair prices. I can only produce fair prices by forcing the shopping centres to pay what they cause in terms of noise, pollutants and cetera.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e3332	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Barmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e3354	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would remind Mrs Moser that it is true that we need core times, but in Austrian society we do not have to prescribe core times by regulation. Mrs Moser, I do not know how you argue, for example, against tram drivers and tram drivers who also have to work on Sunday. How do you argue with the doctors? How to argue You against the doctors? How do you argue with nurses and nurses? When the family meets and, for example, goes out together on Sunday, she also likes to visit a guest house and can be served by someone there. While accepting all of this, on the other hand, it is said that one must receive the holy Sunday and must not allow people to divide their core times themselves. It is not true that this great coalition can determine when people sit together and talk to each other! [[Abg. Koppler: Ask the people!]] The people are supposed to divide that! This does not need to be prescribed by law or regulation! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Tichy-Schreder has complained here of the concentration that exists on the Austrian market. When did this concentration come about? What exactly has the Chamber of Commerce done about this concentration in the market? The Chamber of Commerce only complains of its forced members with the money that they previously took from them if they do not adhere to what the Chamber wants. This is in fact all that is happening in this respect: First you force people into an organization, you take the money from them, and then you complain about them with their own money. They're sending detectives. For example, they let these detectives go to a photo shop to be photographed there. Then these businessmen get an advertisement because for some reason they didn't like it. For example, a photo machine could be installed in the business concerned. In this case, even if the client himself is allowed to take a picture by pressing the button – you know these machines on the stations – but the operator of the photo business – lack of concession – is not allowed to photograph. Well, he can put a device in his shop, and people can photograph themselves with it! This is your economic policy! Cremer soul mentality is that! Cramer soul mentality! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] It is also about something else, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Tichy-Schreder said that in this case the countries would be required. The countries are required, ladies and gentlemen, but the Federal Government is also required. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: City and country – I said that!]] A petition has been made to ensure the supply of food, asking that all federal regulations restricting the initiative of the food supply provider and weakening its fight for economic existence should be abolished. These ladies and gentlemen will not be people who may want to be other servants who are already looking forward to having employees who, leaving them behind the crying children at home, will be able to force them into their business on Sunday in order to make them overtime for which they will not pay for them. What kind of attitude are you facing your members with? They cannot seriously claim that what has so far been done on the part of the Chamber of Commerce' policies would have really helped the close-up suppliers. Let us talk about it, ladies and gentlemen, how much infrastructure is provided for wholesale markets – and I agree with Mrs Moser here – and what is being done in the area of transport policy, especially in the area of public transport, for example, for local services. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: I have always emphasized how important this is!]] You said that. But, ladies and gentlemen, think She said: You've even been in a government party for 12 years! You could have acted accordingly all the time! You can now not only make yourself here and say in the current hour: That's what I said. Because if you say that today, after twelve years, I said so, then implicitly you say, I didn't do anything. And that is exactly what Mr Magistrate has to say. Peter blamed! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I'd like to give you another proof. I have been very surprised by the Federal Minister, who is quite right to say that he has emerged, for example, in the field of electricity supply with very innovative and clever proposals of European format. He was stopped by the national leaders, by the energy suppliers at national level and numerous other lobbys. The Federal Minister said here: We have our own opening hours for the Pendler municipalities – in this respect there is a separate regulation – we have our own opening hours for the tourist communities, and we have our own opening hours for the local cores. And then the Federal Minister claims that this is liberal. It's not liberal! This is bureaucratic, to the worst degree bureaucratic. Does a mother with two children have to know 16 orders to know when to buy where? This is the situation today, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] No, I'll tell you again: What this Federal Government does in terms of shop opening times or economic organisation has nothing to do with liberalism. It is a chamber organization in which you force the people to take the money away from them before they are allowed to work at all. If people don't do what suits you, put them out of the legal persecution with the money you've previously taken from them; they're going to be competitively competitive. This does not only happen in the local supply, but also in the driving schools. I know a few examples of which will be still to be discussed in this House. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e3440	The next speaker is Mr Kiermaier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e3461	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! This debate is primarily a debate on the opening hours. I think it is necessary to take a clear look at the opening times. There is the possibility to open from Monday to Friday from 6 a.m. to 7.30 p.m., the bakery facilities starting from 5.30 p.m., and every Saturday until 5 p.m. [[Abg. May. Peter: We know the opening hours! What are you doing?]] Ladies and gentlemen! The maximum opening time is 66 hours a week. There are also special rules for tourist communities by the head of state. Now I'm wondering: Isn't that enough, ladies and gentlemen? It is significant that the trade chains immediately opposed it when they decided to do so. It is also clear to every layman that extensive opening hours must also include sales expansions. Large businesses can operate with shift and, above all, with part-time jobs, and do so enough and mostly anything other than human beings. There remains the small business, the family business certainly on the track. That was to say, if one wanted to keep up with it quite a bit, to work around the clock. Because the representatives of the round-the-clock society find the shopping pleasure at midnight particularly chic. And these are not rarely exactly those who, even with great self-evidentness, leave their business every day at 4:15 p.m., but expect others to be there at any time of day and night. Ladies and gentlemen! This is unacceptable to me. I'm an innkeeper. I know what I'm talking about. We usually have a 16-hour day, and I know what's on the track, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Haigermoser: That also brings you money! But what about the employees?]] No, the employees don't stay on the track, you can be sure, dear colleague Haigermoser. But one thing I would like to say: What's left of family stays on the track is huge. The children would like the mother at home, as we have heard today, but that is not the case. And every night without a mother is irrevocable. I should like to draw this out quite clearly once again. Ladies and gentlemen! We should try to ensure that families can stay together as often as possible and that conditions such as those mentioned above do not become the norm. I simply cannot understand that one hears again and again that these work models are so favourable and so good for the worker. That's not true at all. It's just not true. It is true, rather, that the person who does not want to come at the time who feels the sales chains are pleasant can stay at home. That's not a chance anymore. Now let me tell you something very interesting, ladies and gentlemen: A "day of the entrepreneur" was held in Amstetten. There were 400 women present, 400 entrepreneurs. Among other things, there was also a vote on how the entrepreneurs themselves stand on this question. And these are the ones who judge that within. Do you know how the vote went? – 399 to 1 for the non-enhancement of the opening hours! That's a fact. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Haigermoser.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take a very brief look at the statement: What about the tramwayer? What about the hospital man, what about the cop? Isn't that enough that they don't have Sunday? As a Christian, I would like to say from this pult: I simply think it is important that the person who wants to go to the fair on Sunday morning can do the same. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Peter.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Minister made a proposal that I liked very well: the smart card. I think that's a good thing. City policy is also a good thing. If we take full advantage of all of this, we are doing a much better service to the close-up provider than if we were to issue a personal license that would be used by the wholesale markets in order to avoid unhindered restrictions on opening hours. On the other hand, I defend myself as a Social Democratic, and on the other hand I also defend myself as a member of the Free Economic Association in the sense of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e3528	The next speaker is Mrs Horngacher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e3549	Mr President. Minister! High house! There are already 237 villages in Austria no longer any near-supplier, there are 35 in Tyrol alone. This is certainly a development that we all do not want here. Of course, the rural area with its low population density is particularly affected. When a supermarket is opened, it is always announced how many jobs it creates. But how many jobs he loses will not be charged. It is also necessary to put this account in place. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] When the village has locked up the last business, difficulties arise primarily for older people who do not have their own cars, and for young mothers with children whose husband has gone to work by car and who therefore also do not have a car during the day. Of course, it is also a matter of consumer consciousness. I can't expect the grocery store or the mixed store to survive in the village if I only shop there, what I forgot in the supermarket. Unfortunately, it is often done that way. I have to call that into consciousness with all the emphasis. We from the farmers' organization have set the focus this year on "near supply" in order to create awareness of this. Once a shop has been locked up in the village and after major protests and with the help of the community has been resurrected and locked up again, this consciousness is far more present and then the whole range is also used. There's a lot more shopping there. We know that the concentration of market power has grown very high. But this also distorts competition, because wholesale markets buy much cheaper, and they have many conditions that the little one does not have. I am in favour of introducing a ban on sales under the price of income, because there are locks at our prices. Look at what is offered in the last Sunday "Krone": Pigs, the kilo 29,90 S, pig meat, the kilo 49,90 S. What does that do? – It causes the small butcher's farm to be locked up, it no longer comes along, and it causes the farmer to perish. It is quite impossible to produce at such prices, and I do not believe that it is moral to be offered in such number and at such prices. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In many cases, however, it is also the spatial planning and the countries. In the sense of spatial planning, today a family house is best supported if it stands on a very small reason, for example 600 square meters. [[Abg. Scheibner: Here you rise, you make this policy yourself in the countries and communities!]] [[Further calls.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] The basic size, on the other hand, seems to play a too small role in large markets. It is necessary to ensure that large markets bear infrastructure costs, that more than one has to be built, that underground garages are built, otherwise there is no cost truth between wholesale and close-up suppliers at all. A well-functioning local care is very important for social life in the village. Close-up care, of course, also includes medical care. It belongs to the school staying in the village. If politics sees it as a task to bring more social justice and to improve human co-existence, then the concentration of market power must be counteracted. It can't be the market alone. It must be a social market economy, indeed it must be an economic market economy. One more word on the opening hours. I do not agree with the Liberal Forum because I do not think that the close-up provider must be locked because he cannot lock up on Sunday. – In any case, Sunday must be reserved for the family, and it must be possible and ensured that people can fulfil their religious obligations on Sunday. This is much more important than the market and everything else. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] In conclusion: I am absolutely against the fact that on Sunday the business will be closed up in general.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e3615	Mrs Haller has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e3636	Mr President. Minister! High house! I really agree with my previous speaker, Kathi Horngacher, that she personally regrets the development in the area of local care, but the following thing I must ask you, Kathi: Have you forgotten who has made economic policy in Austria over the last decades? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is your party which is responsible for this development, both in the area of trade and in the field of farmers. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] And here I find it simply hypocritical and rather blue-eyed – both from you and above all from the Vice-President of the Tichy-Schreder Chamber of Commerce – to go down here and complain of a development for which one is responsible. Why did you not stop him from the ÖVP before? Already in the time, than still This was the Minister of Economic Affairs, I have shown and warned of this development from this pult. But what did the then Minister of Economic Affairs Ditz say to me? – This is a necessary "structural adjustment" to take place there. This, ladies and gentlemen, I have already felt like a great pang as a person personally affected. To complain today, however, in this context of "necessary structural adjustment" is really typical for you of the ÖVP! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The fact that it is already quarter by quarter and not five before twelve is aware of all of us. But the fact that this negative development began at the end of the 1970s that the trend was already going in this direction is not a secret either. Mr Moser has already pointed out that there have been years of failure by governments, so that it could come to this point at all. The small traders were prevented from making equity because of government policy, at a time when turnover was still in the retail trade. As competition grew and small traders had to expand their stockpiles because there was an ever larger range of products, the result was that these dealers no longer had equity to finance this stockpiling from their own resources. And so they became dependent on banks, and subsequently they had to release employees because it just didn't count on economics anymore. These small traders often have to work 60 hours a week in their business so that they can maintain it at all. Then it is no wonder – Mr Kiermaier has already done this – that it is the retailers who do not necessarily insist on further expansion and liberalisation of shop opening times, because they can no longer handle it with their family members. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Peter.]] Mr Peter! There have been failures in this area for many years. We only need to look at our neighboring country Italy: Why is local care still working excellent there? [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: Export...!]] Of course, this is also a reason, but the reasons are a variety of nature. Personally, Federal Minister Farnleitner, I already agree that you have tried to pull the wheel around. More liberal shop opening times, which were also a reason for this development, are now simply too late; the behaviour of consumers has already changed! The fact that you, Mr Minister, have also gone a right way in relation to the shopping centre regulation – at least in a part of the area – has already led my colleague Haigermoser. Nevertheless: This development, as it stands today, has been the result of the failure of Austrian economic policy for years, because in which direction it will go, it has been predictable for a long time. However, the whole thing is also to be referred to as a failure of the Austrian Chamber of Commerce, which should be the representative of the dealers. [[Complaints with the liberals]] Representatives of the Chamber of Commerce are both here in the House and in the government. But for a long time, the Chamber of Commerce has no longer represented the interests of small traders, but only the interests of large trading chains. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: such nonsense!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] And that's one of the biggest causes of the development that we have to suffer today.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e3727	The next speaker is Mr Van der Bellen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e3749	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I agree with my previous speaker, Mrs Haller, over a long period of time; that is a whole new feeling for me. In fact, the impression is that most of the debates are from opposition parties. Mrs. Tichy-Schreder! Of course, it is true that the concentration in trade has taken on "impressive" – to express it sarcastically – dimensions. I am also not sure whether this could have been fought by means of antitrust law, but, Madame Tichy-Schreder, if you think so, I must say to you: It would probably have had enough time for ÖVP and SPÖ, who have been making up the Federal Government for so to speak, for the time being, to give the antitrust right to those teeth that it does not have at present. The fact that the antitrust law is so to speak toothless is not unknown; we have known it for many years. I would now like to limit myself to budgetary or fiscal matters. The first would, of course, be to stop subsidising the shopping centres on the outskirts, on the outskirts of the city and so on. This is not primarily a federal task, but a matter of the communities and of the country, but one has to consider why the communities are so blackmailed, one after the other, probably in fear: If we don't do that, it's the neighboring community and so on – these "games" we know – but there must be from the country level – that's not that simple, I know already – mechanisms with which this kind of subsidisation is prevented. In tax terms – and in some cases the federal government is already in demand – it is not yet completely exhausted, I think, if one can no longer do with packs: For small and medium-sized enterprises, it is less necessary to reduce the tax burden, but as a contribution to the reduction of bureaucracy, which is very much suffering from small businesses. It would also be nice if, in this respect, you could approach more of our proposals in connection with an eco-social tax reform. What's their basic idea? – The reduction of additional wage costs, but also – and you don’t trust that! – the promotion of transport. Shorter transport routes would be more interesting after such tax reform: In Dutch tomatoes, for example, there would be a competitive disadvantage over Styrian. Although all of this would not be fighting Greißler die in the core, a regionalization effect – considered welcome by us – would have done so already. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: If you're talking about the Dutch tomatoes, the Dutch tomatoes will first travel all over Germany! That is a European problem!]] [[Further call to the ÖVP.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] I said yes. That wouldn't end the Greißler die now, but a regionalization aspect would have the whole thing. My colleague Gabi Moser's already mentioned traffic generator charges – probably to be regulated at national level; the question is how to define the basis of assessment: by square meters, by parking spaces – would be a contribution to achieving a greater level of competition between city operators or local authorities and these shopping centres. The last point, Mr Farnleitner. We of the Greens have supported this shopping center regulation with a bit of abdominal pain, because it represents a serious intervention in commercial freedom, but I would be pleased if you could evaluate this after two or three years, which would be an appropriate time to determine whether this has been proven. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e3802	The Federal Minister asked for another question. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e3824	Mr President. High house! Mr Van der Bellen. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Three weeks ago, we carried out an internal evaluation of the shopping center regulation – from lawyers to users. We have received almost unanimously support, with the exception of a department store operator, including critical lawyers, for it shows: A race for locations of large shops in Austria is starting again. Some large chains, such as Hornbach, have decided to form many more sites. Textile chains have also decided to make Austria the site. High house! What may be underestimated by the Shopping Centres Regulation: This will force, when it is implemented, the major investors to return to the centres of the cities, where smaller businesses can also live. And we already note this from some examples. However, what I would like to criticise in this context is that there is still an unhindered competition between communities for locations. It cannot be, however, if such a regulation is in place in Ried the mayor, but in Tumeltsham the marsh area is declared the "town center". The same applies to Steyr and so on. Therefore: The responsibility of the countries is also required. And I'll stick with it. There are, unfortunately, no regulations have been made, which I say in the direction of Mr Barmüller, which are sufficient to empower them, in order to bring about the necessary flexibility with regard to opening hours. I would also like to say the following: It should be made clear to everyone that in a country where there are 3.2 million self-employed out of 8 million people, there are around one million entrepreneurs, students, old and needy people, who are usually open to business when most of the Austrians are unable to shop. So you should really consider whether you could not at least become more flexible at the edges. And this is my appeal to those responsible for implementation. – Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e3879	No one is reporting on this. The current hour is closed. We will then have two votes. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e3906	Before that, I declare that, in respect of the negotiating items which have been obtained, the written notice distributed at the meeting room, in accordance with § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Request for a brief debate on the reply to the question 4554/AB
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e4055	Before entering the agenda, I would like to say that, in accordance with Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure, there is a desire to hold a brief debate on the reply to Question No 4554/AB to Mrs Hlavac's question, 4860/J, concerning EU initiatives for Sudan by the Foreign Minister. This short debate will take place at 3 p.m. in accordance with Rule 57a of the Rules of Procedure. Requests for deadlines
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e4079	I would also like to say that Mrs Magistrate. Mr Kammerlander requested that the Equal Treatment Committee report on the application 146/A of the Member of Parliament, which amends various federal laws, including the National Council Election Regulations, and on the motion 147/A of Mrs Kammerlander concerning a Federal Constitutional Act amending the Federal Constitutional Act as amended in 1929 – both of these applications are in substance – a period of time until 24. ==References====External links== In this context, there is also the request of five Members according to § 43 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure, to hold a short debate on this request for a time limit. This short debate will take place following the debate on the question referred for a preliminary ruling; the vote on the request for a deadline will take place immediately following the short debate. I would also like to say that Mr Haigermoser has requested that the Economic Committee report on Mr Haigermoser's request 367/A concerning a federal law amending the Federal Law against Unfair Competition, a period of time until 31. The year 1999 is to be set up. There too lies that of five delegates according to § 43 para. 3 Request made by the GOG to hold a short debate on this request for a deadline. This short debate will follow up with the short debate previously announced. The vote on the request for a deadline will take place immediately after the debate. I would also like to say that Mrs Dr Schmidt has requested that the Constitutional Committee on Reporting on Amendment 517/A by Dr Schmidt and Comrades on a Federal Constitutional Act amending the People's Procedural Act and the B-VG be entitled to a period of time until 15. ==References====External links== Here is also the demand for § 43 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure, to hold a short debate on this request for a time limit. This short debate will take place following the short debate by Mr Haigermoser, which was previously announced and requested; the vote will be taken immediately following this short debate. I would also like to say that Mr Magistrate. Mr Barmüller asked the Transport Committee to report on the motion for a resolution 858/A (E) by Mr Mag. Barmüller and comrades concerning the introduction of a driver's licence until the 20th century. In 1999 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States In this case, a debate was not requested. This means that the vote on this request will take place after the agenda for today's sitting. I would also like to say that Mrs Dr Gabriela Moser has asked the Transport Committee to report on request 954/A (E) concerning the development of an Austrian transport plan for a period of up to 19 years. In 1999 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the A debate has not been called for here either. The vote will therefore be taken after the end of the negotiations during today's session. Decision of the Presidential Conference on Declaration by the Federal Minister for Science and Transport as item 2 of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e4149	The Federal Minister for Science and Transport has expressed his intention to submit an oral report to the National Council on Transport Policy in the European context. In the Presidential Conference, the proposal was accepted, this declaration being 2nd. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. The National Council shall have the right to raise objections against the fixing of the time. – This is obviously not the case. This makes the time fixed so fixed. Aside from the 24 hour lead-in period
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e4177	In order to be able to negotiate items 4 to 12 of today's agenda, according to § 44 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure required the withdrawal of the 24 hour period of stay. These are points 4 to 12 of the Committee's reports, namely: Government template 1518 of the Supplements concerning the Employment of Disabled Persons Act, motion 734/A (E) of Members of Parliament Haidlmayr also concerning the Law on the Employment of Disabled Persons and motion 894/A of the Deputies Dr Kier on the Employment of Disabled Persons Act. Further: Government documents 1508 on labour market promotion law, 1509 on youth training security law. Further: Government template 1519 on EU Civil Society Social Insurance Act and claims 845/A of Deputies Dr. Kostelka and Dr. Khol concerning a federal law amending the General Social Insurance Act, the Agricultural Social Insurance Act and the Civilian Health and Accident Insurance Act. Further: Amendment 967/A by the honourable Member Dr Kier concerning the revision of the ASVG, BSVG and BKUV, i.e. the Civilian Health and Accident Insurance Act, and the motion 943/A by Mr Reitsamer and Dr. Feurstein on Social Rights Change Act 1998. It is therefore a question of whether the National Council agrees with the necessary two-thirds majority in the presence of half of the Members of Parliament on the withdrawal from the 24-hour deadline in relation to the proposals which have just been announced. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to the withdrawal from the deadline to give a corresponding sign. – This is decided with the required two-thirds majority. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e4223	I would like to sum up the debate on points 4 to 6, 7 and 8, 10, 11, 13, 14 and 17 and 18 of the agenda. The Hoge Haus has to be on top of that. And so I'm asking: Is there any objections to this proposal? - That's not the case. Then this is decided. I shall now go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e4247	Consensus has been reached on the duration of today's debates as follows: A day-block speaking time of 13 "Vienna hours" has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ 195 minutes, ÖVP 182 minutes, FPÖ 169 minutes, Liberal Forum and Greens per 117 minutes. The National Council is also to be found on this issue. There are objections to this proposal. - That's not the case. Then these speaking times are determined unanimously. 1. Point Report of the Economic and Social Committee on the Government Template (1428 and 1428 of the Supplements): Mineral Raw materials Act – MinroG, and on amendment 659/A (E) by Mr Andreas Wabl and Mr Comrades on the reform of the mountain law (1527 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e4290	We now reach 1st. Agenda item. There is no need for reporting. The first speaker was Mr. Dr. Grollitsch. The speaking time is set at 7 minutes. [[Call the Freeman: Where is the Minister? Where's the minister?]] Mr Grollitsch, are you ready to start your speech, or should we wait two minutes? The Minister has just finished the current hour, perhaps he will be back in 3 minutes. I'll leave this to you. [[Abg. Dr. Grollitsch: I would like to wait for the Minister's presence!]] All right, then I will interrupt the sitting very briefly, because I assume that the Minister is also interested in taking part in the debate. [[The session will be suspended for a short time.]] I'll start the interrupted session again. Mr Grollitsch, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e4340	Mr President. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== December is the day of Saint Barbara, the day of miners. As a Montanist, I have allowed myself to wear the miner's festive dress, the mountain kittel, today, as many Austrians do at the various celebrations, at the Barbaran celebrations, throughout Austria. Mr. Marizzi will still cross him today, and Mr. Eder will carry him too, because the OMV as a person affected by an old mountain right, which also looks quite good through this novelle, has this 4th. It has been declared a job-free holiday for its employees on December 7. So I'm sure, Mr Marizzi, you're going to slip into this kittel outside the house today. Today we carry a mountain law to the tomb, which for centuries laid down the guidelines for the degradation of mountain treasures in our countries and beyond. It is now not to be expected of me, because this right of the mountain has indeed been exercised in a large way. The underground mining has fallen – but this was also the case in 1990. And that's the approach. My reigns, if you turn to the 21st protocol. June 1990 and the novelle that finally enabled the welcome of the gravel – I may call it simplicity in the middle of it – was the moment when the mountain right was no longer responsible when this mountain right was softened and broken. At the time, Mr Haigermoser said exactly what could be repeated today: This law will install two forms of society of destruction, and it will very soon follow a novelle. It won't prevail. And so it was! From 1990 to today, this law has been sawed – partly right, partly wrong. Only this MinroG, which is available today as a result, Mr. Federal Minister, is inconsistent, is shortsighted, weak and bad. If you allow, it is an image of your person and of your group. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Note: On 20 July, the Court of Justice of the European Communities held that it had been negotiated for more than three years. 73 amendments proposed by the EIA. At least 50 amendments were tabled to the Committee and five Committee statements were made. The Committee was interrupted. A new method of democracy, ladies and gentlemen: The Committee is called upon, lets it run, interrupts it with dubious reasons, then red and black withdraw into the chamber, comes back after five hours, lets the members of the opposition know in between, one still needs, and after five and a half hours one comes and says, so, now we are done, now we can vote in 5 minutes, and it is up to us. We did not play this part in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. At some point, Mrs. Tichy-Schreder – I think you have to make an understanding of this – is overshadowed by the bow. And that was the case at 4.30 p.m., at 6.30 p.m., the bow was overstretched. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is perhaps – as has been said – a new quality of democracy: The government parties, if they cannot agree to lose no time, withdraw during the Committee's time and leave the opposition outside. We had to wait outside in connection with the whole development of this law. We would have liked to get there or there, were allowed to do so on detours, but on the matter itself our opinion was not asked. Federal Minister! You've got us on 21. In October, in your ministry, to hold a debate with us, in which you yourself were not present, your well-trained official was there. [[Interference by Federal Minister Dr. Farnleitner]] They have provided us with a presentation which shows that the estimate of the expected costs of this law is not possible, in any case, to be expected to increase in an insignificant way. The increase in costs has now been estimated at around 100 million schillings per year – the amount that the new law devours due to additional administration. You have informed us about this in the form for the presentation, in the explanatory remarks that were still included at that time – today you can't see anything of it anymore. Untrue is this law in addition. It's immature and sloppy. We have argued in committee that it should be remedied and debated, also from Pietät in front of those who are still in the mountain. The Federal Chancellor has directed it to you, or at least he has said this to the media: Go ahead boldly, and let's not break a law over our knees now! As sloppy as it has been done, the current absent rulers of social democracy themselves will soon notice when, for example, § 125 reads: "For each mining operation and all independent operating facilities, the person entitled to mining shall be appointed as the responsible person for the management of an operation manager and for the technical supervision of plant supervisors." What does that mean when you implement this law? – Mr Marizzi You will wake up when you read § 125 first line. That means that the OMC... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Marizzi.]] No, no, you didn't read that. If you had read it, you would not have missed out on the fact that every business unit would, of course, need a manager. But stick to the law, and you will read the reigns of your group to the Levites! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My reigns! Husch-Fusch, where you look: untrue, expensive, hostile to citizens. No first instance of opposition was foreseen. It's an immature law. I am excited about how the rulings of the EIA's economic wing will behave in the vote. We will, of course, ask for a name-named vote and see if you have a residual backbone. From the Committee you have fled in the vote in order not to have to make a colour. Some Members of the Red Group have also announced their rejection of the law to the citizens. Friend Wallner, we'll see how you behave today. – We are against it anyway!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e4436	The next speaker is Mrs Tichy-Schreder. The clock will be set in 10 minutes if desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e4457	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== December is the day of Saint Barbara – Mr. Dr. Grollitsch has already said it. But Saint Barbara is not only a patron of miners, but also a patron of the mortals, the builder, tower guards, firemen, bells and bells. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: And the artillery!]] And the artillery. But since Artillery doesn't play such a role anymore, I left it out. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Thank God!]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the course of the debate on the Mineral Raw Materials Act, we should also remember the men who are still in the mountain of Lassing and that there is still much work to be done here. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] On the contents of the law, ladies and gentlemen: Even though Mr Dr. In gross criticism of the fact that we have tabled many amendments – including Mrs Petrovic in her report on minorities – I would like to say that most of the points in the amendments are purely legislative, for example, if a two-participation mark has been used instead. I admit that we interrupted the Committee's meeting, but the situation was as follows: If you remember, Mr Grollitsch, we were in the committee when this Mineral Raw Materials Act was first negotiated, we had concerns that there could be any need for EU resistance testing. We asked the Constitutional Service of the Federal Chancellor's Office to comment on this. Unfortunately, God’s statement of the Constitutional Service was just before the committee began. So that we do not adopt a law which does not then meet the wishes of the Constitutional Service, I then interrupted the Committee's meeting to take account of the objections of the Constitutional Service and to find appropriate wording. We have then tried to reconcile the amendment that has already been tabled with the other amendment. These legal requirements were necessary in order to be legally able to adopt this law. What is it about in terms of content? In terms of content, we now have, on the one hand, all the substances that lie below the earth's crust in the Mineral Crude Law, but on the other hand, this Mineral Crude Law also provides for administrative simplification. We have introduced two regulatory areas. The first control area includes the basic raw materials, which are mined obesely, e.g. sand, gravel, gravel. There are probably two instances here: first the municipality, the county headquarters and then the country and, of course, the highest courts. And with all the underground materials, minerals, the mountain-free and federal raw materials that are mined underground, there is an instance that we already have in many other areas: the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs is responsible for this. And of course everyone can still go to the top authorities. Now to debureaucratisation, which we have achieved by this law. There were great difficulties with the communities that there have been two procedures: the extraction procedure and the procedure for resolving and decommissioning minerals. These two procedures have now been merged into a procedure. For many mayors and citizens have been excited about the fact that a procurement procedure has been filed, where it has not been planned for a long time to end there. This has produced a lot of displeasure. Especially we from the Austrian People's Party have not made it easy for us: As the mayor's party, we have taken all the mayors very seriously with their suggestions and complaints, but on the other hand also as the party of the economic location Austria also the concerns of the economy. Making a balance here is not easy, but possible. Together with the coalition partner, we have found a way to achieve simplification and de-bureaucratisation, but we have also called for and enforced intensifications insofar as we have granted the parties' position and – very importantly at the suggestion of our mayors of the Austrian People's Party – the neighbouring communities are also included in the party position procedure. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There are not only the municipalities, but also the arrants and the country party positions. There is a new responsibility here for the communities that have always said so far, we cannot speak for ourselves, but now they can speak for themselves, now they must also decide, and it will be a new quality of subsidiarity to be able to decide for themselves on the ground. The other important point was that we have set up protection zones, one – under quotation marks – "absolute protection" of 100 meters around residential buildings and a further protection of 300 meters, which can be very well worked into these 300 meters, even if the corresponding dedication is provided by the communities, but also if the mayors and arrants want it. But even if there is a road, a motorway, a highway, a railway line in between, it can also be built into these 300 meters – but with the will of the subsequent communities that have a party position. But we've done something else, and that's something completely new: We have released new materials, with regard to which we have also been accused by the Greens. These are special, rare minerals. We have thus also achieved a new quality of the law. However, this mountain exemption from various special materials is not equivalent to a expropriation of property, but "mountain-free" means that the rare minerals available in Austria are protected. Which materials is it about? This is about Magnesit, about a special pure lime, it's about Diabas, and it's about Illit and Blähtone. There are rare occurrences here. I can tell you one thing, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to Austria's economic location, technology and progress, we have excellent training courses and also excellent businesses in Austria. I am speaking, for example, of Magnesit, which also falls under it. It's a piece of Magnesit. [[The speaker holds a piece of Magnesit.]] Do you know what Magnesit is used for? – It is used for fireproof systems. We have leading companies that are listed on the stock exchange and operate in this field worldwide and carry out new research. This shows that Austria's economic location also creates jobs, and we need to create the necessary conditions for this. Magnesit is a high-quality material, and this high-quality material should also be further researched and made mountain-free so that it can be preserved for future generations. One thing is of particular importance in this mountain law: that we carry out raw materials security on the one hand, since Austria is one of the few countries in the world, which have certain special raw materials, that the local supply is given, but that on the other hand the fundamental rights and interests of citizens and communities are respected. We tried to go a way between Skylla and Charybdis, and we found the right way. This shows that both the one side and the other side there and there do not agree. It is another important point to mention. This is about natural stone works. Perhaps in the course of the day we will still be able to find a scheme for the existing establishments so that they can continue to exist in the future. But I think we can say: On the whole, this law is not a hush-fush law. It has been negotiated for several years, and I believe that it is a practical law for the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e4524	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Peter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e4545	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I will report to you about a "cash" of Austrian government work or, otherwise, the way in which this great coalition deals with the mountain law. It is true that this government has recognised the need for reform in the mountain law and has already worked on a reform during this year. The work was relatively far-reaching: The reform was still under review and had been completed so far as to pass the Council of Ministers. Then is the tragedy that happens to Lassing's terrible accident. It's what happened so often in Austria: Something must always happen so that something happens! Hecticism has broken out, a new draft has gone through the Council of Ministers without consideration and then has come to Parliament. We had a first general debate on this at the end of October, which was certainly useful. We'll have 30. In November at 2 p.m., a change was made with 50 points being submitted. The Committee then held its first meeting on 1 January. From 10 a.m. to 12 p.m. on December 10 and was then interrupted – supposedly due to a constitutional opinion. But that was only a small part of the truth, which was much of the truth: This was because the great coalition had retreated to negotiations outside the committee. The resumption was then postponed to 2 p.m., at 4 p.m. and at 4.30 p.m. There were now two new amendments, one with 66 points and one with six points, and five more Committee statements. In fact, it is a sign of good parliamentary work, if a law is revised here in Parliament, if the representatives of the population are working on a law. That's great, that's parliamentarianism! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on representatives of the Freemans.]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, but not with the exclusion of parliamentarians and opposition! What you have done in the silent chamber is exactly what should have happened in the committee. [[New congratulations to the Liberal Forum and to representatives of the Freemans.]] You are going through the parliamentary committees! You will paralyze the parliamentary committees because you will not go to a parliamentary committee until you have said to the opposition: Fresh, bird, or die! The liberals have taken the consequence of this and have been expelled from the Committee. It was scurry: Dr. Petrovic on the one hand and I then sat there on the other side and listened to how the coalition members proudly told us what they had negotiated before. Is that your form of parliamentarianism?- Oh, my God! – Yes, it really only needs a large coalition of ÖVP and SPÖ. The two of them "wrong" this together, and in Parliament they will present it to us. Why do you use our time if you do not take Parliament seriously? [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: They weren't there at all! This is the 'bite' Parliament which the President wishes to see.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This was a chronicle of this Austrian federal government. For this reason, we reject this amendment, but we also reject it in terms of content, because we are of a different opinion. The old mountain law was no doubt obsolete. It simply did not recognise the rights of the neighbours in a civil society enough, it has excluded the communities from participation in procedures. It was the Bergbehörde with the six mountain captains no doubt overtaken. The inclusion of the basic mass raw materials at the beginning of the 1990s was a Pyrrhus victory, Dr. Fekter. At the time, the government of Vrannitzky said to receive the mountain authorities: The mountain authorities don't have enough work to do! There is less mining in Austria! How do we give them additional work? That was a real Pyrrhus victory! A recast was necessary. But what are the mass raw materials looking for in a mountain law, in a mineral raw material law?- Oh, my God! The bulk raw materials belong to commercial law. Just like a sawmill and all the other such companies in Austria, you can also operate a gravel plant. This is not about a scarcity relationship, but about the rights of the economic operators, but of course also about the rights of the neighbors and those of the arrants. The rare occurrences are, of course, part of the Mineral Raw Materials Act, because there is a national interest in winning things in Austria that we would otherwise have to carry through expensive imports and huge transport services and over long distances. There is no doubt that there is a need for special arrangements in the proceedings, in the party's position, in the balance of interests. But that's not the point of saying: How do I make the rule that I have prevented everything in Austria?, but there must be the wording: How can I make mining possible in Austria, but under the sustainable participation and protection of the arrainers? To overcome this contrast of interest is now the task of politics! There are politicians and, above all, the decision-makers in the executive: to have the courage to resolve this point of interest between economic gain – with employment, with less traffic and more value added in the country – and the interests of the people who live there. The amendments you have proposed have undoubtedly improved the presentation somewhat. They have exchanged uniform arrangements for labour inspection against costly waste of economic damage. The Liberals voted in favour of the supplementary committee statements – they were a matter of course for us. However, the challenge now lies, ladies and gentlemen, with the spatial planning, with the countries, and with the land use, with the municipalities. Now the municipal councils and the countries will really have to break their heads over which area is the primary value added to a region. If the focus is on tourism, a mining operation will hardly fit in there or only under very difficult conditions. If the focus is on another economic activity, if the backbone of value creation is an industrial-commercial one, then one will have to have other aspects for mining and things of this kind. So far, the municipalities have stolen themselves from the area and from the countries on spatial planning, and they have said: Parliament can decide that. It's not possible! Parliament can only set the framework by way of an approach. Implementation must take place where economic activity is really to be started. I do not think it is wise for us to define fixed limits of distance, which we write in the law with a measure of measure. There will have to be distance limits, but they will be different from one case to another. The word "topographic" is also missing in the amendments. There would have been the possibility of truly individual action. Thank God you – and I thank you for this – have not even introduced a new General Administrative Procedure Act here in Parliament, which we have also agreed to, because it is the basis for the mass procedures that are now to be expected. From 100 parties there is the simplified charge, there is the eight-week term for the party position, and the negotiation can of course also be carried out by a wide variety of interested parties. This was necessary in order not to allow mass procedures to be eroded, that it is always only in the direction of prevention through filibusters and other measures, and not about the question: How can mining be made possible while at the same time taking into account the interests of the people who live there in the sense of spatial planning and land ordination? I regret, Minister of State, that you told me in committee that we did not need a federal mining plan that would be planned. I do not know, Minister of State, whether you really confuse the market economy with planlessness. I thought it was a big mistake. [[Federal Minister Dr. Farnleitner: Entrepreneurs plan!]] Yes, the entrepreneurs are planning, but the entrepreneurs need framework conditions. Economics in a market economy means that it is the task of policy to define markets. And mining planning is the definition of markets with a political requirement in which companies can operate in Austria or not. I would like to add the following: If we say that the Mineral Raw Materials Act should apply to rare raw materials, we must be aware that it is a rare value in our country, which will not only exploit one generation but will be available to several generations. That is why I think a mining plan is good in which you think about it, how and with what intensity and when we use these rare raw materials, which are only mountain-free and federal, because they are rare. This is not a market economy to be recorded in a mining plan. I want to see this polemic. I am sure that you yourself do not believe it either. The Liberals reject this draft and are pleased that there will be a name-named vote on it, because there is a real need to confess color. We regret how he came to be. We expect in humility the many repair novels that will be necessary to repair this Law-Hush-Push again.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e4612	The next item is the speech by Mr Eder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e4634	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to start a little unconventional here today to speak about this new mineral raw material law. I would particularly like to thank those who have really supported the negotiators with expertise, but also with patience and diligence. It was Mr Mihatsch who really deserved to be mentioned here today. Thank you very much for the support we have received from him. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Now, in general and in principle, you are allowing me to say that this new law does not require any operation in that country to be locked or that it will lose jobs. All those who claim this claim this against better knowledge and to help their personal interests break through. Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing a law here today that has a long history. This law has been discussed for many years, it has been tried in various stages to change the old mountain law, but it has been shown that a novelle to the old mountain law no longer appears to be targeting, but that it is reasonable to create a new, modern mineral raw material law that receives new areas of regulation and new responsibilities. It was particularly important for us to take into account those considerations, demands and wishes of the communities in the context of the fact that they still had no party position or right of participation or other rights when it came to obtaining approval in their municipal area of gravel mining plants. On the other hand, they could neither take a position as a party nor develop any transport concepts or other things. That is why we have now incorporated this modern law into the fact that the communities have a party position in the main proceedings that the people and also the country in which these establishments operate receive a comprehensive position of parties. We have even extended this to the neighboring community. It is true that gravel pits are often located somewhere in the countryside in such a way that the community and its citizens can be particularly affected during transport. This is why the neighboring community should also have a say here. We have also considered how to protect people in this area in particular. It is not about prohibiting businesses, but it is about talking in order with the people and the people living around such establishments. It has been very important for us that there is a ban on areas such as residential areas which are construction areas, areas where childcare facilities, children's playgrounds are located. In these areas, measures must be taken to protect people there from the environmental pollution they create. At the same time, within this 300-metre protection zone, we have also provided opportunities for all companies currently operating in this 300-metre area to continue working. We have also opened up the possibility that entrepreneurs in these areas can expand their operations, but not to the municipality, but from the municipality away or parallel to the municipality, and this also without the consent of the municipality. We have also moved into other areas without protection zones, namely in those areas where the countries declared the area to be a nature reserve, where areas have been declared national parks, nature parks, resting areas, forest and meadow belts – for example, around Vienna. It should also be possible to operate mining in an orderly form, but only if the countries want to do so. Ladies and gentlemen! We have also included in this new, modern law that a concept of transport is to be agreed with the communities by means of transport, because not the operation itself is often the problem, but the many loaded and empty trucks that have to pass through the area and transport thousands of tons of gravel and other materials. It is therefore necessary to establish a common concept with community and operation. It is all about us, in the whole line of this law, that the businesses with the communities, as in other areas, as well as in the commercial order, can do with the locals, with the citizens who live there, and cannot act against someone. We have also included in this law the idea of a balance of interests, which is to consider what interests exist in a region: rather to operate a business such as gravel or loose rock mining or to support other important economic activities for the region, such as tourism. Dear Mrs Tichy-Schreder! Because you have previously meant that a small area, a small segment to discuss, namely small natural stone farms, has been forgotten, I can tell you that we have also broken our heads over it. It is true that even such small works of natural stone that lie within the 100-metre protection zone, where the degradation should no longer be allowed, can survive. They have the opportunity to live for a number of years, first of all, of their resources – I have spoken to such businesses, they have also written to me – and second, to convert to underground operations. It is not a problem for them to get marble or beautiful rock out of the mountain. Subday operation is excluded from the scheme with the 100-metre prohibition zone. In this way, these craftsmanships can survive and work. They agree. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: After Lassing trust you to say that you should work under day! That's incredible!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I understand your emotion, Mrs Fekter. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: As a solution to offer underground operation, do you trust in Lassing?- Oh, my God!]] I might also have such emotions in your place. But I do not think it is necessary to play out emotions in a subject matter. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you already mention Lassing, Mrs Collaborative, I have to tell you that the entire protection of workers in the mining industry is now located in the labour inspectorates. That was a call from the Social Democrats. Workers' protection is indivisible! We are very pleased that workers' protection is now being perceived by labour inspectorates within the framework of the Federal Ministry of Labour, Health and Social Affairs. [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think we can say, in a large way, that we have succeeded in implementing legitimate demands from the communities and the neighbouring countries in such a way that the protection of the people, the urban development of the communities and also the orderly expansion of those economic areas that we are discussing here are possible. - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e4700	The next item is Mrs Petrovic's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e4722	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! First of all, a few words on the occasion of the current novel of mountain rights, on Lassing and, unfortunately, the non-parliamentary clarification of political responsibility. It is nevertheless happening continuously in the form of questions, but not in the manner that should actually happen in an investigation committee. But, Minister of State, you can be sure: It happens continuously, and I'm not going to let go of it personally. To this occasion, before I come to the Mountain Law, to the Mineral Crude Law in the narrow sense, a few words. It's been a long time in which to answer questions from your home and from other ministries. It is true that we have always said that you are being misinformed by your officials. Obviously you allow it, because now you know that at least you cannot trust these persons or some of these persons. Apparently, you are going to conform with it, and the network of contradictions is getting closer and closer. Federal Minister! They are still writing – and it is important to me that this is also recorded in this House – that the mission of the ten killed miners was the rescue of Georg Hainzl, who was the first to be shed – although you know that this is wrong, although you know that the Minister of the Interior is no longer even trying to maintain this truly unsustainable thesis. Minister for the Interior Schlögl answers in a recent question: "The investigations showed that no later than 3 p.m. on this 17th. It was recognized by the line of action" – by your authority, that is! – "that Georg Hainzl can no longer be saved through the tunnel system, but only through a mountain drilling. From then on, the ten miners were only more to secure the mine in the mine." – This is a clear, objectively verified and confirmed statement! I ask you, Minister of State, why you are constantly signing false answers – I think this is immense! I also think it is bad that the government parties will tolerate this and accept it and thus fall into the back of their Minister of the Interior and of the Criminal Officers. This is embarrassing and outrageous. Ladies and gentlemen! Another point in the answers to the questions is wrong and illegal, regarding the functions responsible for the mines – that is also the current law, because these functions will be theoretically, perhaps not always practical, according to the new legal situation. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] Federal Minister! The legal situation was clear according to old mountain law, and the letter of the law should be clear in the future: There is no compatibility of responsible functions in mines. The central safety function of the marker separator is incompatible with internal functions! If some of the officials and some of the members of the group's management in the area of Naintsch are obviously trying to assign the sole responsibility to the head of the company Schmidt, I also regard your responses as an attempt to influence criminal proceedings in order not to raise the question of political responsibility. That's bad, that's bad and clearly contradicts the law, but that doesn't seem to disturb the ÖVP and also the SPÖ very much. Thirdly, again to Lassing: the question of the role of the authority. The steps taken immediately after the first disaster have been taken in the presence and, of course, in the authority's competence. It is clear that the excuses that are used over and over again, namely that Georg Hainzl was wanted to save by sending the other ten down, are not correct. Even if I were inclined to give faith to this clearly contradicted thesis, I would ask you: Then why did they do something that was clearly counterproductive for Georg Hainzl and reduced its chances of survival, namely, why did they build mud barriers that pushed up the mud and the water? In a television broadcast, the works council said: Almost these trials would have been successful. Georg Hainzl was already standing on a table surrounded by water in this jause chamber. And the terrible second catastrophe was indirectly probably the salvation for the life of Georg Hainzl. That's what it looks like. I do not understand that you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, do not at least now – all this is clearly proven – say that to you every serious geologist and every serious geologist; that is what the Minister of the Interior sees as it is, he makes it quite clear, without any excuses – to eliminate this felt, I do not understand that you still have some people at the mountain authority, which is obviously subject to criminal proceedings, and a company which has not occupied the central security functions for cost reasons, covering and place your signature under such untruthiness. - That's what's going on. But that also has to do with the new law. For what has been clearly, demonstrated and written by an authority which has proved to have misinformed the Federal Minister's orders, instructions of the Federal Minister – Mr Wüstrich has arranged the opposite of what the Federal Minister alleged to have wanted – which is to be kept by such authority and its information, we have experienced in the Committee. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Marizzi.]] When it came to protecting property owners from expropriation in favour of new gravel pits and their access points, we were told again and again that there was no such thing as not happening in practice. But we had a written notice from the Berghuppmannschaft Innsbruck in hand – this is happening! Federal Minister! I don't know, did they tell you, or didn't they tell you? The appeal is pending in your home since spring 1998. The excuse that you did not know that, therefore, it cannot be allowed to apply. Apart from you, you want to say that you trust a bureaucracy that has led you on very brittle ice several times. This could be averted because the green club was given information by chance, otherwise you would have designed such a way that adequate information from Members was deliberately suppressed. Member of Parliament Peter has already described it: The Committee meeting was suspended for many hours, supposedly to read a two-sided opinion from the Constitutional Service, which could normally be done in a few minutes. However, the real reason for this was that a large, over 60-point amendment proposal should be put in place in such a way that it is no longer possible to control what is really involved. This means a legislative procedure designed by the government parties in such a way that a genuine technical discussion of what the changes are making is no longer possible. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] Deputies! I don't know if in the meantime you've made yourself as sufficiently informed as I have. I can tell you again: Your authorities have misinformed you and also Members of Eder. [[Abg. Parnigoni: This is a serious accusation!]] This is a serious accusation, but if the occasion is ten bad, dead people, then serious accusations are also appropriate in every form, Mr Deputies. You can assume that. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grabner.]] An authority that acted like that at the time and acts so on does not enjoy our trust! And if the Federal Minister relies on this authority, this illustrates his political inability to act and the degree of responsibility he places more on each day. Mr Eder! This comprehensive draft amendment, which was presented shortly before 5 p.m., with its 66 points, contains three major amendments which are evading and clarifying the political agreement of the government parties, three essential points, although the SPÖ, in particular, has solemnly declared to its mayors: No millimeters of softening! We stand by this compromise! – The aberrations are considerable. [[Abg. Marizzi: But, Mrs Petrovic, now you are unfair! Now you're really unfair!]] Check it if you have heard my arguments, Mr Marizzi. [[Abg. Marizzi: We have responded to your arguments! You're really unfair!]] – As far as expropriation is concerned, I have also said that, only: It was a coincidence that we even got on it! Mr Marizzi! I'll give you some thought. These chief teams – we have presented the cases of officials who have opposed instructions, of officials who, as the Minister says, run to newspapers or to other political groups and let him be uninformed – will continue to be responsible until the end of 2000, without more attention being paid to them. [[Abg. Marizzi: But according to the new law!]] I already see the difficulties of a comprehensive government reform. [[Abg. Marizzi: According to the new law!]] - According to the new law. But how am I supposed to trust an authority that has not applied the law exactly so far – for example, with regard to central security functions, it is still claimed to be compatible with operational functions – what should I believe will make it better in the next two years? The mountain captains are staying now. Second major aberration: The special conditions for approval, which are right and good, which we very much support, the transport concept, the position of the parties, the respect for nature reserves, of land use, do not apply to certain establishments, namely to those who cried very loud and made early terror on the Ringstraße today – in breach of the 300 m protection zone of Parliament, the Bannmeile was broken; in everyone else one would probably have regarded this as a terrorist act, but some of them may be heard, because they are just coming with the big brothers. These special approval requirements, the protection of the arrants, the communities do not apply to a number of rocks: in the case of pure lime, diabas, quartz sand, illiton and other blähtons. In the Committee we were assured: very few farms, very small quantities of mining. – Mr Marizzi! Mr Eder! That's wrong. We've had it checked by several experts. It is true that, in this context, you are apparently bound up with a bear, because it is about enormous quantities of decommissioning that will not protect the workers. It's not about small areas, it's about 15 million tons – 15 million tons of rocks! – in which the residents have no protection against transport emissions and no right of participation, in which all the things that have been disputed for so long by 450 municipalities with their municipal councils and mayors simply do not apply. This is the price you have paid for the competence of the labour inspection, which I believe is natural and correct. It should not be seen that particularly dangerous establishments are not covered by labour inspection. I think that the SPÖ could have represented this demand with great emphasis and with overwhelming approval in the population. This kneefall in front of some really loud farms was not appropriate! And the third great exception – this is really devastating especially for ecological reasons – at the 300-metre protection zone. You said: For all new plants, we promise high and holy, they will apply! – It does not apply in principle, not categorically, but it is intended for a deviation, i.e. when a motorway, a highway or a railway line passes at a distance of less than 300 metres to the residential area. It is an incredibly arrogant appreciation, expressed by this deterioration in law, because that means in the clear text that people who already have a motorway or a highway at the doorway do not care anyway. They can quietly also carry out a mining operation, a gravel pit. They already have the noise and the exhaust gases from the motorway and can also cope with the small amount of dust and the additional noise of the gravel pit. – That’s the point of view. Some communities, some of the locals, are abandoned by the legislation. But this is also a counter-carriage of our concern for environmental protection, which is: Where there is a high basic burden, one should not allow any additional burden at all, or one should in any case be very sensitive. You can't say: They are already abandoned anyway, there is everything beyond good and evil anyway, they get something to do with it, another on the lid, in the truest sense of the word. What's going on with these people? – They can only capitulate and leave. I do not think that it is a contemporary consideration that people are given up residential areas because of gravel pits. Mrs Tichy-Schreder, when you say that it was a matter of close-up care – we will still be discussing local care and small and medium-sized enterprises today –: It is also an arrogant and evocative attitude that we know that in many rural communities there is no longer a rapist, and people there no longer get milk and bread, and yet they mean: But you're supposed to have gravel on your doorstep! – This is really ridiculous and pathetic! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What comes out if, on a disaster issue, you always believe those who have been found to be misinformed and have a secretive interest, which comes out of doing so at 5 p.m., with the elimination of a committee of transparent deals, of which you do not know at the time when they are closed, what they really mean, and now you are revenge yourself. A good law should, however, avoid conflicts in practice, should offer a political solution; it should not shift conflicts to the streets. Federal Minister! What do you say about the case of Paternion in Carinthia, where a new gravel pit will soon be pushed through in December, a new facility – from this particular mountain authority, which you trust so; unlike the Members of this house – 34 meters away from the residential area? Around the factor 10 the protection distance is lowered by a new gravel pit, in a beautiful area with a pool pond, with an old castle, with tourist fitness that is fantastic. Nearly like to be defied by this Federal Minister, who has become politically incapable of action, his mountain authority tells him: We don't "beep" anything about a new law! – 34 meters from the residential area! That's what I'm supposed to do. December, to be pulled through. These are the authorities you all trusted with each other to break the directions. [[Abg. Marizzi: That's what you say to my colleague...!]] – No, I am not saying that to any fellow Member, but I am telling you that from the government parties! Because if you get on deals with an authority that has acted in Lassing and in other cases in the known way, then you are from the government parties that have given up the population in Austria with your share of power! And I reject that in all forms!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e4863	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Steindl. Mr deputies, you have given a speaking time of 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e4884	Mr President. Minister! The Mineral Raw Materials Act is certainly one of the most difficult materials and one of the most difficult laws, for three reasons: First: A complete rewording has been made instead of the old mountain law, and very substantial changes have also been made to the content. Secondly, There are – and this has been shown – a lot of interests to each other. And thirdly, This law is still being passed under the impression of the disaster of Lassing, and there are still a lot of emotions – and these have shown the statements of my previous speaker. In fact, it is a law that has been formulated very well by the National Council or legislator. I cannot understand the accusations made by the liberals and the Greens who criticise the fact that we "re-disputed" during the committee sitting at the law. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] If we decide to make a government proposal without changing a point or addition, we are always accused that we are only the leaders of the government. However, a draft law was put in place, and we tried to give this law a fine touch in the committee – and then we will be criticized again! [[New calls to the liberals.]] I mean, you really have to stress this: It is God's thanks to a law in which we do not blindly give the approval to the government template, but rather the Members try to bring in their ideas in a very hourly manner. [[Abg. Dr. Grollitsch: Can we not grind?]] That is why I cannot understand your allegation, Dr. Grollitsch, at all, if you now believe that 78 or more amendments have been tabled. In connection with the Greens, I am incomprehensible as follows: In addition to many Committee statements, there is one which reads as follows: The Economic and Social Committee assumes that officials and contract staff of the captains of the mountain by the planned dissolution of that authority do not develop any service and remuneration disadvantages. There was a discussion on this from your side, Mrs. Dr. Petrovic. They are opposed to such a committee being decided and refer to the procedures initiated by some authorities. In my opinion, what you said there is a pre-condemnification of the whole authority. You are pre-condemning the whole authority! Where is your objective and human behaviour, which you stress repeatedly at other items of the agenda? But now to the law itself: As mayor, I am satisfied with this law, which I must say quite openly and clearly. First: The presentation is not subject to the consultation mechanism – means: The federal government pays the costs. Secondly, There is now a precisely definced party position of the countries, the municipalities, even the neighbouring communities and – which is very important – the neighbouring. The communities in particular will play a key role in the future. There are several examples of this. We in the North of Burgenland have the example of the Parndorfer Platte, where Schotter is being mined and where the municipalities, even the country, have hardly had a chance to intervene. Now there is this possibility about land use plans and about the communities. There is thanks to God a regulation regarding a 300 - meter protection zone, which can be lowered under certain conditions. And it must be thanks to God for the communities with which the transport concepts are to be agreed with. We also gain more quality of life for our country. It will, in principle, simplify the administration structure through the district administration authority closer to the citizen and the authorisation procedure. And there are also transitional provisions that you, Mrs. Dr. Petrovic, have criticized, but where I believe that the district authorities will now pass away, they would be immediately with 1. January 1999 will have to take over the role of the authorities. So, in total, it is a good compromise for all concerned. We should give this law a chance. As a Member of Parliament and mayor, I see no problem in giving this law the consent. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e4932	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl. Mr President, you have given a four-minute voluntary limit on speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e4953	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The illustrious history of this law has already been dealt with by my previous speakers. In the event of a failure to comply with the laws of the Court of First Instance, the Court of First Instance shall have jurisdiction in the matters referred to it by the Court of First Instance. [[Abg. Parnigoni: This is not an incentive legislation!]] And it is really unfortunate that it seems that there is always a need for an opportunity for this government to become active. Ladies and gentlemen! There was a chance missed, because the horse was stooped from the wrong side. It was refused to establish a commodity security law as a basis for availability, accessibility and degradation. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The use of raw materials – and there has already been a great deal of valuable, sustainable use of warehouses – is not planned for sustainable use. The instruments of spatial planning – as I agree with Mr Peter – are not taken into account, although today there are technical possibilities, such as the geographical information system, with which very precise "exclusion areas" or "positive areas" can be identified. And another point: For example, I see no reason why salt, although historically significant – the salt road and so on – is one of the national minerals. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: It was always like that!]] On the one hand, you sell to Androsch the corresponding deposits, on the other hand, salt is still a state-owned mineral. I do not necessarily recognise the desire for reform that you have repeatedly put out. Large companies are clearly preferred in this law, Mr Eder. Due to the high cost and bureaucracy, the small enterprises will be made almost impossible to obtain extraction permits. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eder.]] This will make it difficult for Mr Mayor to do so. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is noted that there is a need to take appropriate precautions for recultivatement, but there is no mention of the way in which this should be done. Will this be done through provisions, it will be a purely financial provision? How to deal with this over a long period of time? – I think there are many essential questions here that have only been taken up and in no way solved. The transfer of the agendas to the bras will have an enormous additional cost to taxpayers, and the quality of the procedures to be dealt with can be seen from today's point of view as very doubtful. In the last minute – that is to say, you have left some sense of reality in your mind and some discouraging discord and trying to address constitutional concerns. To what extent you have succeeded, the future will show. Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been said that today is the "Day of Barbara", the holiday of the mountain and hut people. In the course of its centuries of tradition, the Austrian mining industry and the Austrian raw materials industry have experienced many highlights and survived many low points. They will also survive this government and this mountain law. – In this sense, a warm congratulation!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e5020	Mr Magistrate has also been reported to speak. Merchant. Voluntary time limit: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e5041	Mr President. Minister! High house! In contrast to my previous speakers, this mountain law is a reasonable compromise between different interests, on the one hand, the supply of mineral raw materials, the preservation of the farms, the maintenance of the corresponding jobs and, on the other hand, those in particular in the mining industry, i.e. in the quarries, in the gravel pits, after which the maintenance of a reasonable quality of life in the communities and the wishes of the locals should be taken into account accordingly. And this has been relatively well done especially in the area of quarries and gravel pits – there has been the biggest problem there. A compromise will never satisfy everyone, but it is a compromise I consider reasonable. I assume – and this also plays a role in my district in particular – that it is not possible to prescribe on the one hand every house builder, how high the house has to be, in which direction the gable has to look and how the roof inclination has to be, while on the other hand, one can build a gravel pit or a quarries in residential areas and carry off the half-mountain. That's absolutely impossible. In this respect, provision has been made for the absence of new quarries in existing residential areas and 300 metres of protection zone. And there is also a 100 meter protection zone for existing plants. I believe that we will take due account of the real needs of the locals. All those who now demonstrate and think that all this is too strict must be said – and this also distinguishes me from the honourable Member Peter – that the mining industry, in particular the quarries and the gravel pit, in contrast to the normal commercial or industrial operation still does not need an active dedication in the sense that it is dedicated to the mining area, but it must not be excluded only by certain dedications, residential area, nature reserve plus 300 meters. This is why the mining industry, including its own minerals, i.e. the gravel pit and the quarries, is still privileged in some way to other commercial plants. This is also the reason why this is not to be regulated within the framework of the trade regulation. On the one hand, one can confess that the 300-metre protection zone takes into account the interests of the trailer, and should not act as if this law were indeed to put jobs at risk and to kill existing businesses to a large extent. There are 900 open procedures in Austria, which must now be handled by the mining authority, because the bras are only used for the new procedures. I believe that the bras will in principle be the better instrument, because they have much more connex to the communities and to the neighbouring communities. I would just like to ask you, Mr Minister, that you ensure that the certain cumpanei that has existed between mining authorities and establishments is terminated and that these 900 open procedures, which must be implemented under the new law, are actually dealt with within the meaning of this new law. Last point: The amendment introduces an extension of the list of mountain-free mineral substances. It is about ten to twelve production plants, which I do not think will cause any special problems in my information, and which are also some of the real farmers of the heart, so that it is necessary to ensure that the production in these plants is actually secured. Summary: I consider this Mineral Raw Materials Act to be a reasonable, portable compromise between the interests of ensuring the supply of raw materials, the interests of the owners and those of the preservation of jobs there, but also the interests of the communities and the arrants. It is therefore appropriate to agree to this law.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e5088	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Barmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e5109	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Since some previous speakers have referred to the fact that today is the day of Saint Barbara, I would like to add: It's historical! Politically, today is the day of mining bureaucrats and lobbyists! And it is by no means a day to celebrate, but it is a sad day. However, I expressly note that as far as lobbyism is concerned, not all mining plants and not all gravel farms are concerned, but there is a group that has benefited significantly from the under-privileged mass raw materials under the mountain law, and of course it is opposed to losing its advantages today. However, you certainly do not create fair conditions of competition in this area because of the changes that are under discussion today. I ask you, Mr Kaufmann: For example, what changes for the municipality of Peggau in Styria through the new mountain law? What will be better for the community of Peggau? They say it's a compromise. It may be a political compromise between the SPÖ and the ÖVP. But it is not a compromise in the sense of a good solution, but it has become a lazy compromise, which also shows that you have been confronted with over 70 amendments and then implemented in the Committee on the 50 of them. There are political exchanges here, but no new framework conditions are created for an important industry. If you say that the parties of the communities have finally been regulated in the new Mineral Raw Materials Act, I will reply to you: In the mountain law it was also regulated, only badly regulated! It is not a question of the form in which the communities have, for example, a formal party position. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Mr Herzegovina! It is about the content of the party's position and how the interests are balanced against each other. That's the decisive thing. And in this consideration you have failed again if you decide so today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eder.]] Mr Eder! You will see that, after the decision-making of this law, we will be faced with exactly the same problems as before. And that's where I tell you: It wasn't worth all this effort! And I think, Mr Kauf-mann, that we should also talk about it separately: What about the OMC now? This is an area that has remained completely out of the discussion, because it has always been about the mass raw materials. But you should also ask: How is that regulated? Who will secure what resources? Ladies and gentlemen! I repeat: The central problem is that there is political lobbyism here. In reality, with this law you maintain the distortions of competition that exist in the area of gravel pits. This is true, you know, and we will see it in the discussions that will continue in the future. The 300-metre rule does not actually include 300 meters, but rather a little less, and if you have a railway line inside, anyway, because if you already have a railway next to your "hut", then it's already wurst whether you have a gravel pit with it. They do not take into account that dust development, for example, depends on whether a degradation area is in the direction of a residential area. There can be a lot of too little distance. On the other hand, 70 or 100 meters of distance with a forest in between can be quite sufficient. That is to say, this absolute arrangement, which you wanted to make here – and which has not become an absolute rule again – is simply not in line with the problem. Mr Peter has already put it out, and I would like to stress it here again: These are political exchange transactions that you have done here, which simply do not correlate with the problems that occur on the ground. This will not be possible, and therefore we will continue to have precisely these problems. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Deputies! I would also like to say that, as an example, what amendments to the Committee have been interrupted, which is why this has not been negotiated in the Committee, but has been incorporated in the rear Chamber of Coalition Parties: In § 3 para. 1 point 4 will also be about Illitton and other Blähton, and while one has said in the limestone, in the Diabas and also in the Quarzsand that there must be a certain concentration, there is no concentration control here. Ups! – is not inside! But this is not the government template, it is the current report. But that is not defined, and you also know that it is not defined. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: That's exactly defined! You must inform yourself once!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eder.]] And then, of course, not only can you read the first paragraphs in a law, but you also have to handle a little bit, perhaps until § 202 para. One, ladies and gentlemen. Interestingly, you can read: "The owners of upon the entry into force of this federal law" - the They will decide today – "right winning permits" for Illitton and other Blähton "have with the Authority until 31. To apply for the conversion into mine sizes of the mine-scale fields underlying the extraction authorizations." [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eder.]] And then you read § 202 para. Mr Eder, the honourable Member, says: "Up to the legal transformation of the mining fields, the Berggesetz 1975 continues to apply." [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: But no! Mr Mag. Barmüller, only you know best! Let yourself be told the truth! That's not true!]] Do you know what you're saying to the locals? Äch!, tell them we sent it. For how will we handle this? We are acting in the political field in interrupted committees on what we consider to be a political target. We do not take into account the existing problems, which are also problems of the arrants, but in particular problems of those companies that have been forced into distorted competition. So you don't stop these problems. This may be a compromise which the Chamber of Commerce is right and cheap, and the Liberals are just about to reject. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e5201	The honourable Member's head has also been reported on the floor. The speaking time you want is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e5223	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The experience gained with the novels in the old mountain law of 1990 and 1993 made it necessary for a number of reasons to re-evaluate this law. There have been legitimate and unauthorised objections and protests by communities, in some cases by affected people, where one really must say that the old law of its necessary protection function has not been fulfilled. In the last one or two years there has been very reasonable negotiations for the revision of this old mountain law, aimed at building up party rights for neighbors, for communities, which was also demanded by them. But then, tragically, something happened. It has happened the disaster of Lassing, which was first of all a human tragic accident, which is also very unfortunate. Unfortunately, a second accident has resulted in this Lassinger accident: a political accident – I would really call it such. All of a sudden, because of this sad occasion, political demands have been made in relation to this new mineral raw material law, which cannot be justified in terms of either Lassing or the problems before it or are not related to these problems. There were all of a sudden demands for a 300-metre protection zone, which has nothing to do with justice at all. In my opinion, I do not think it is possible to express the concern of the arrants, but rather with impunity, i.e. with real strains and not with distances. This continued: the demand for an absolute protection zone of 100 meters. And even if a affected pilot agrees, this distance should in no case be lessened. That can't make sense, please! A new name has been born: "best state of the art". It has then been relativized in the Committee's statements and has again been trimmed to "the state of the art", but what is the point? – These are excessive, necessary things. We had the term "stand of technology" that was judicated. This was known and applicable to all administrative officials in the district authorities. It has not been born a term, but it has come in again, that of the "necessary examination", in times when we are in economic life... – Yes, yes, I am coming right away. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eder.]] This concept has been created in the course of negotiations in times when, throughout Europe, we finally believed in this issue out of our economic laws, out of our economic life. [[Abg. Eder: But it has nothing with...!]] This has actually been outraged. But, Mr. Eder, since you've just told me: You have previously proposed, as a problem solution, that one should go to the underground construction in the case of natural stones when it is mined under 100 metres. [[Abg. Eder: Yes!]] This is white cynicism. [[Abg. Eder: Not at all!]] This is white cynicism, please. After the accident in Lassing, the solution to a problem, namely the degradation of raw materials, which is going on underground construction, is a mockery of every description and no further comment needs to be made. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] ==References== In fact, December, the day of the Committee meeting, has brought some improvements in the sense of reason. Some things have been relativized. I've already said it: State of the art. For the 300 meters mentioned, there are very modest possibilities to obtain exceptions, basically those that are unlikely to be used. I voted in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, because several improvements were still under discussion. For example, it was envisaged that there would be further negotiations and that there could be, in particular, on key points – at the 300 metres zone – the possibility of reaching reasonable exceptions in negotiations, namely the consideration of local circumstances – not just those three taxable ones. Today's stand is the one that obviously was not thought of by our coalition partner – unfortunately, I have to recognize this today – to make concessions here. If this remains the case until the vote, I cannot imagine that I will give this law the consent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e5297	Mrs Magnette has now come to speak. Kammerlander. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e5318	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. I would like to sum up two points from our point of view. One point is the parliamentary procedure in this novel of mountain rights or in this bill. This is such an extensive matter – I can only repeat it once again – that it would have required more careful treatment and it would have been fair to start a more careful treatment of matter here. Our desire and our desire was – I must repeat this here – to set up a subcommittee dealing with the various blocks of topics and, in the context of which it is possible, above all, to draw up experts, but also to provide the opportunity – I think it is important – for communities and citizens' initiatives to be heard. For example, the suspicion remains that, although you have responded after the disaster of Lassing, you have responded too quickly and therefore too superficially from a certain panic situation so as not to have to be blamed for doing nothing at all, you have not responded too quickly and therefore, in our opinion, too superficially and have not been able to meet the requirements. The fact that this whole matter, which has brought together so many amendments from your side alone, is going to be dealt with at just two committee meetings, simply raises the suspicion that, in the second part of my remarks, much has been disregarded. There is no doubt that the greatest regulatory requirement exists in the case of mass raw materials, precisely where these surfaces or errors have happened, which have already been created, namely an unmistakable derogation, especially in the case of certain mass raw materials, in the case of certain solid raw materials. This derogation must be justified first of all, and that is why, as it were, at the last minute, you removed various raw materials, such as limestone, from the new law, and, in my opinion, it sheds a very significant light on this process and on these negotiations – with completely misleading information on the decomposition. They have said in the debate, according to the Ministry of Economic Affairs, that, for example, limestone should be reduced by 0.7 million tonnes. However, according to the figures of leading geologists, 7 million tonnes were mined in 1996 alone. How can you explain this difference between a reduction of 7 million tonnes and that of 0.7 million tonnes you have made? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The same applies to the other substances for which this derogation applies – be it quartz sand now, be it Diabas or all the other substances contained in the draft law. There are very obvious differences everywhere between the data relating to a future reduction which you make in order to make the whole manifestly impoverished, and the data on the degradation that took place in 1996. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: No!]] After all, this area of exceptions covers 15 percent of the reduction of mass raw materials. And it is worrying that you are creating exceptions here – obviously according to the motto: Although I am improving the procedure – we also see that the procedure is being improved there or there – I am looking at the fact that as few plants as possible are included or, above all, those plants that are obviously particularly at the heart of the ÖVP. Finally, it should be said that these interventions and these changes clearly go back to the explicit wish of the EIA and its clients. I mean – and with me many others – that the whole pressure that existed to pass this law on to two committee meetings and not to allow sufficient deliberations was in the interest of the ÖVP and in the interest of its clients. It is, however, always in their interest to consider the history of the whole, which gives rise to fears that history and tradition will continue as well; that is, that we will have to do it again in the near future – I suppose.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e5360	Mr Grabner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e5381	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In my opinion, this bill is a compromise. I would like to deal with a problem which also affects the district from which I come, very much: the decline of gravel. In my opinion, the existing mountain law is one of the worst laws available to the communities and the population living there. That's where the lobbyists had their hand in the game. I can quote a few examples – including your master of state: Breitnauer in Rewerch. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Scatter reduction directly at children's playground. – Ladies and gentlemen! I have received a drawing from the children because it has approved the Mountain Team up to the children's playground that there is a gravel pit. [[The speaker shall keep a document up to date.]] Of course, that can't be the way it is! Or: Platform calls for rapid reform of the mountain law. – All parties, not the Social Democrats. – Resolutions on mountain law and construction order to the Federal Government, state government and the mountain captain. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] Further: Scumbling in Eggendorf. The community is desperate. 1.9 million cubic meters will be cut to 22.8 hectares. It's ended with gravel pits. Grave pit in front of the house. Citizen frustration is growing. Wildwest in the gravel pit. – Quotes on quotations. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course I could continue this. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: When are you going to the government?]] There is a draft law, Mr Colleague, which, according to the information provided by the Austrian Sand and Kies working group, reads as follows: The formality of the municipalities in the collection and decommissioning process, in the procurement procedure, may extend the duration of the proceedings by about one to two years. However, prevention of a project by the community is not possible de facto. – That was the draft. Mr Kopf, who is also addressing all the Upper Austrian ÖVP MEPs in Parliament, has an advertisement with the following wording: Government at risk of jobs, industrial union Upper Austria. 3 000 jobs are at risk. – I have to keep up with such a thing. I'm just saying, The mayor of Weikendorf, an ÖVP man, has called on all mayors to decide on a resolution in this area and send it to the local representatives. So far, about 30 percent of businesses have been involved. According to the new law, it is almost 100 percent. That is why the industry cannot complain. I can say: In my opinion, this is a compromise. I can agree to this law. I would like to thank all those who have contributed. Mr Federal Minister, I too would like to thank you. You weren't in a slight situation. However, I should like, above all, to thank our two Members, Mr Eder and Mr Heindl, for the negotiations.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e5453	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e5483	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to congratulate Mr Grabner. He poses himself here and speaks of a compromise. Something was created, a compromise. – But it’s a bad compromise, it’s an unacceptable compromise that was closed here. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I give you, dear Arnold Grabner, but very well, if you say that the old, the existing mountain law is a bad law. Why is it a bad law? – Because in 1990 you and your group, together with the ÖVP members, voted in favour of including mass raw materials in a mountain law in which they lost nothing for which it was not designed. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The consequences of this political activity, political work and that of your comrades and how it will be implemented will then be shown. Federal Minister! The Mineral Raw Materials Act, which is being debated today, is ultimately seen as a result of Lassing. This law was submitted without the appropriate review procedure and dealt with in the Committee. Federal Minister! I also marveled at your statement in the Committee: The Committee, the politicians, the coalition parties – I don't know who ever – are not the extended arms of the trade unions. Now – you have said – economic policy is being made. – I wonder: What have you done as Minister of Economic Affairs so far? These are the mistakes of 1990. The law was inappropriate to include these mass raw materials. The rights of the arrainers and the communities were not respected. It is and remains a Husch-Fuch-Law. And it is a process which, I would say, is chaotic and, in particular, unacceptable for the opposition parties to deal with in committee or between and in advance. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Steindl! There can be no talk of harmony that has been addressed and of fine-tuning. That is absolutely incorrect. You, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and SPÖ, have used a letter from the Federal Chancellor's Office's Constitutional Service as a vehicle to lead further negotiations after they have been terminated without any final outcome. They have been pudding and working on for hours under this law – to the detriment of the Austrians, as I mean, the mining plants, the arrainers and the communities. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But you have also achieved something: the following result: Lassing two is not excluded. There is no guarantee of long-term supply of raw materials. You, Mr Federal Minister, have, on our question, whether it would be useful to draw up an appropriate safeguard plan, confuses the market economy with the plan economy. You meant you didn't have anything left for planning. The fact is that it can only be a confusion and it cannot be seen that you do not guarantee security with this new law. No national raw material concept is intended as a basis for legal stockpiles. This is precisely the confusion of the market economy with the plan economy, and this testifies to planlessness. The result is an existing legal uncertainty in the transition from the Berggesetz to the Mineral Raw Materials Act. It will be more expensive, the costs will grow, it will become more bourgeois, it will be more bureaucratic, and there is a monopolization of the large gravel lobby to ours and to the detriment of small and medium-sized mining companies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e5553	Mr Auer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e5574	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! ==References== As regards the problematic impact of the old mountain law on December 1998, it is a very positive day. This has already been noted by some speakers, and this is also acceptable. This is because today's decision to introduce a new mineral law is a fundamental reform. A long-standing demand by the Municipal Government for a comprehensive, genuine party position is becoming reality. That, I think, is positive. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This new law provides for transport concepts. In my opinion, fundamental protection zones should and could still be discussed. It is important, in my view, that all the projects under way are dealt with under the new law – that is to say, to welcome – so that no longer happens what has happened more and more often, that large companies are still in a fast position and that small businesses are left for competition reasons. Ladies and gentlemen! One thing has to be said: There is hardly any law that has so massively intervened in the community autonomy, such as the old mountain law, especially as regards the area of mass raw materials, say gravel and gravel. Someone has once said that democracy is still functioning in the communities because this operation is based on three pillars, namely, on co-determination, co-responsibilities and co-decisions. In this context, these were the land use plans, the development concepts, which were very often laborious and in difficult negotiations with the local people and were then suddenly put out of effect by a simple communication from the mountain authority. This cannot be the case, however, that the decision of a mountain authority will be taken by a municipality itself to determine whether it wants to be a tourism community, a housing community or a business community. It is positive that this free decision of the municipal council, in cooperation with its own citizens in the future, has actually been valid! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! As someone in whose community there are two gravel pits and who can indicate a positive relationship and positive cooperation with both companies, I would like to stress that this law, which we decide today, should not be a law of prevention. I also mention this because the communities have responsible dealings with the opportunities they now receive. Those games that can be observed very often will not be possible now, after which everyone wants to have a cheap building ground – this does not matter, on the contrary: the workplace, the operation should be even in the greatest possible proximity, also the gravel pit, the gravel pit, because the cheap building material is important, one has understanding of it, and the short transport routes are also of advantage – but then, when he is finished with the house building, he wants his rest. Then the railway also disturbs, then the positive opening road disturbs, then the operation disturbs. No one wants to know anything about it, even in front of his neighbors you already want peace! That is how it will not be possible, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Eder.]] That is why I am expressly saying that, under this new law, these new possibilities must be taken seriously by spatial planning. Spatial planning means creating order and not making everything possible everywhere. This will certainly require another rethinking process in such a region, and a little more responsibility will be needed. In particular, I would like to thank our Federal Minister Farnleitner, who, with his proposal, which led to the new law that is now in place in common, a courageous, responsible step, a step towards more democracy, which offers people and communities a chance for more cooperation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e5648	Mr Oellinger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e5669	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Just a few brief remarks. Mr Federal Minister, I would have liked to have your presence in the debate on the ILO agreement at the last plenary session, since there have been points that are not uninteresting in relation to the matter to be negotiated today, namely on the protection of workers, which has only been implemented in the debate or in the committee, but in a procedure which I think is somewhat strange. This is especially true of the address of the Social Democratic colleagues. So much so that we agree that labour inspection now also has the supervision of workers' protection in mountain farms, I am so concerned that the Social Democratic Group was obviously only able to achieve the anchoring of workers' protection by exchanging rights for them. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Marizzi.]] – Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Marizzi! That is a problem indeed! [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: Not at all!]] In view of the fact that certain necessary changes in the protection of workers – and I am again in the ILO Convention – have been decided by this Parliament, so to speak, as a declaration of intent, as "letter of intent", with ratification but have not yet been implemented, the question arises whether this ratification, or also the supervising of workers' protection, which is now transferred to the labour inspectorate, in those areas where there is a need to improve something and a work inspection would indeed be a progress, also means substantial progress. I would like to stress once again: This procedure, which excludes certain areas from this law and which have also been deprived of the rights of nationals in order to exchange a somewhat better supervision of labour inspection, is a problem for me. For example, the amendment to § 175 is due to an incentive of the Greens. You have obviously not noticed in all these years that the ASVG has fundamentally contradicted the mountain law, the relevant provisions of the mountain law. The ASVG provided that the authorities, the workers' representatives or the accident insurance companies may enter the mining establishments without a notification, were excluded. Ladies and gentlemen! It is a step forward if this is now made possible, but at the same time a sign of extremely bad legislation in recent years as well as a sign of how inappropriate this mountain law was to guarantee workers protection in some important respects. If you call it progress that something has happened, which would have been necessary for a long time, and which has also been purchased in a number of other areas at the same time, I think this is really a problem!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e5711	Mr Marizzi has now come to speak. I'll set the clock to 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e5732	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Oellinger! We haven't exchanged anything. [[Abg. Oils: Sure!]] This law provides for the supervision of labour inspectors, so workers' rights have been strengthened, the distances and also the position of the parties. That was our political goal! That's what we've achieved! [[Abg. Oillinger: But some things are out!]] Mr Oellinger! It was discussed before Lassing about the redesign of this mountain law. Mr Farnleitner, the Federal Minister, has, of course, introduced a government template which we have discussed in the Committee. Of course, amendments are included in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. [[Abg. Oillinger: These changes took place in the last minute! You didn't notice!]] There are amendments to every law, you know, and therefore it has not been an exchange, but it was reasonable, Mr Oillinger. [[Abg. Oils: Oh yes! It was an exchange!]] Secondly, I would like to say a few words about Lassing. From my point of view, it was not about the people – in which I agree with you and with Mrs Petrovic – that it was not about the miners, but about the profits. We all know that today. Only the amount of turnover per capita shows that there was finally a robbery. People around the miners didn't care at all. [[Abg. Oillinger: Not around the mountain either, that's the problem!]] That is why I am glad, Mr Oellinger, that the authority is no longer in control of itself, but that the labour inspectors will be in control in the future. I share the opinion of Mr Viktor Klima, Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, who said that this concerns the legitimate interests of the people and that the protection of the people is a priority in the future. This was also an objective of the S & D Group in this law. I do not want to lose many words on the Committee's negotiations and deliberations. That's already been discussed today. I would like to thank the negotiators and also the experts, especially Mrs Tichy-Schreder and my colleague Eder, who found a compromise in this difficult matter – and that was not very easy. I claim it's a portable compromise. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Petrovic's comments today were extremely unfair. Because, Mrs Petrovic, we have immediately incorporated your intentions in terms of measures to protect the locals into the draft. I believe, Mrs Petrovic, that this is also a common victory. They have made a valuable contribution to this, and we have responded immediately. However, I did not like it - I must also mention it - that you said in the Committee that it was really uninteresting, what the Austrian gravel pits need, that is not high-quality jobs, but that is pointless. – Mrs Petrovic! However, I think this is very good, because otherwise the material would be imported from Hungary or elsewhere. Ladies and gentlemen! In summary, you can say: This law is a compromise, it is a very good law. It protects the people, it protects the rights of the people, and it also protects – you also have to mention this – self-sufficiency with mineral raw materials. That is why I would like to give my approval to this law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e5821	Mr Blünegger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e5842	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Originally, the project to make a new mineral raw material law on the basis of mountain law was intended to be implemented after long preparation and good negotiations, a genuine mining reform was the goal. But after Lassing's disaster, the government coalition, especially the ÖVP, suddenly rushed and in the opinion of us liberals has now made a Husch-Fuch-law. As we have already heard in today's debate, opposition speakers dealing with this law had to draw the attention of the government coalition to the fact that an amendment to this law should already be tabled in today's debate. So this is a law that you very much praise, but which is already in need of reform. That is what we wanted to avoid. But we were not even given the opportunity in the Committee to have a proper discussion about it. Mr Steindl, who, in his speech today, claimed that the liberals had had this opportunity, I must say: We had no opportunity at all! It was only after four and a half hours that we received two amendments, which included about 72 points! This is not the right way of doing things, in our view. The opposition should also be involved in the negotiations. Therefore, this federal law can be referred to as the Husch-Pufsch law, and we even claim that the amendment of § 125, which is being implemented today, is absolutely necessary. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the United Party! [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Dr. Maitz.]] We are in some respects of your opinion. We also support the fact that the Party's position for neighbouring communities is finally being introduced or that the obligation to grant authorisation is necessary for the extension of recovery plans. But apart from that, if I were a teacher – who I am not, because I am in practical life – I would give this government template the note 5! Why? – Each slug recognises that the two-year deadline can be used to apply permits on stock – each slug recognises this! – which delays the entry into force of this law for years. I also believe that a party position should also apply to underground construction, and also to various other things. Therefore, we will certainly not give consent to this law, for it is an immature law. It harms federal states like Tyrol, for which the tourism and leisure industry is an equally important location factor. In this sense, I would like to call on the coalition to make such considerations before today's national vote and not to agree to this law.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e5888	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Gaßner. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e5910	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This federal law on mineral raw materials replaces an old, authoritarian and almost anachronistic mountain law and replaces it with a modern law in which the necessary participation is guaranteed to the communities and thus to the affected citizens – it has already been mentioned several times today – especially as regards the "overday extraction of basic mineral raw materials" – as it is so beautiful in the law. The priorities have already been worked out by my predecessors. I would like to deal with the issue of the community, i.e. the party position of the municipalities in the new Mineral Raw Materials Act, because, during the Committee's negotiations and also because of numerous letters of intervention, which have certainly all been given the impression that the municipal councils and the mayors are more likely to be seen as an obstacle to mining plants and to institutions that are not only suffocating after vote. The parties to the new law are in addition to the permit-holders of the property owners, the neighbours, the local communities and the neighbouring municipalities as well as the respective federal states. This is the unsustainable condition that, as was the case in the old mountain law, the communities and locals have no way of effectively bringing their legitimate interests to an end once and for all. Certainly, in individual cases, the balance of interests for mayors and councillors is not easy. But even in other industrial processes, for example in the case of new business start-ups, in the case of constructions and in the case of previously necessary changes in land use, our local politicians have already demonstrated that they are very well able to make sensible decisions, both in the interests of businesses and the related jobs and in the sense of the population and the people concerned. In contrast to other bodies, municipal councils must represent the decisions they make directly before their fellow citizens. They are in daily contact with those affected by their decisions. For Upper Austria, this new mineral raw material law is at the right time, but the municipalities in Upper Austria will have to adopt municipal development plans by the end of 1999 and then review the land use plans. In this way, the decompositions required in the MinroG can also be taken into account and depleted in the long term. With the consideration of interests laid down in the law, the communities have an instrument at hand to decide on the basis of which they can decide in the sense of the people concerned. Who could better assess this balance of interests than those responsible in the municipalities and regions who know precisely the concerns of the people they live with on-the-spot and the wishes of the economic operators of a region and the associated financial benefits for the communities and the necessary jobs as well as the employment situation as a whole? It is also essential to establish a transport concept which can be adapted to those transport concepts that will be included in the municipal development plans. All these measures are, in my opinion, the best guarantee for a good solution, also in the sense of operating companies and their acceptance in the population, which will certainly have a positive impact on the sectors concerned in the long term. In the claim of the Upper Austrian Industrial Association that these provisions put 17 000 jobs at risk in the construction industry, it should be said that we should do a more detailed analysis of what is actually at risk of jobs. I would like to have another press release by the honourable Member, Head of the 2nd Chamber. In December, it adopted an anti-proliferation approach to the SPÖ. Are ordinary procedures, which, as I have said, have already been possible in other areas and have long been the norm for entrepreneurs? – I cannot recognise any entrepreneurship in the legitimate protection of the interests of the population. It should be noted, however, that this is an admittedly good law, which is a good draft law of the EIA Minister for Economic Affairs. He also claimed in the press release. "In the future, a lot of responsibility lies with the mayors... In particular, the mayors must now show responsibility in terms of local participation." – Mr. Kopf – he is unfortunately not present – our councillors have shown a lot of responsibility with the mayors, even in the past, especially in delicate questions! I am therefore convinced of the quality of Community decisions, including issues and problems arising from the new Mineral Raw Materials Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e5965	This is what Mr Ing has to say. Nut trees. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e5986	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The government parties use this law – I would like to say almost – to present a masterpiece of ignorance, bureaucracy, waste of money, job destruction and distant citizens. I can't express it better if you pass through the realities with such a law. This law was reintroduced here against the recommendations of the Advisory Council on Economic and Social Affairs, i.e. without calculating the follow-up costs. This law does not eliminate the mistakes made in 1990 with the integration of the bulk raw material gravel, and this law will bring at least 100 million schilling extra costs in case of declining needs. In concrete areas, the district's headquarters will be overpowered as well as the labour inspectorates and thus only privileged and lobbyists will prefer and ultimately form monopoly. Small and medium-sized enterprises, which provide local services, cover niches and in themselves have the largest share of employment. Indeed, job losses will be the result. And the citizen – I am not going to comply with the remarks made by Mr Gaßner – is equally disadvantaged because one-stage procedures for mountain-free and federal mineral raw materials are always a disadvantage for citizens and many legal uncertainties will arise through this law because there are a number of derogations. On the other hand, there is proof of need, the transport concept. Please, ladies and gentlemen, on the coalition parties, the need depends on economic strength and is part of the competitiveness in the free market. And the traffic routes depend on where the construction is carried out, so where the customer is. This law – don't take it bad – is a Hush-Push law first rank. So many amendments, almost five-hour panic negotiations, further amendments to the amendments and five committee statements had to be made in order to keep together the disruptive bill and, I say this quite clearly, the disrupting EIA Group. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e6023	Mr Herzegovina has now come to speak with a voluntary speaking time of 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e6044	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have an opinion here, a final report on a collection of raw materials protection in the Graz and Graz regions, in which so-called hope areas are identified. In total, there are 22 additional mining areas, although currently around one third of the Styrian degradation takes place in the Greater Graz region and the export industry flourishes very well. [[Abg. Dr. Grollitsch: What kind of export?]] So 22 additional mining areas for various materials, more than one billion tons, 3 232 hectares, but about the protection of nature, the protection of the water is not at all mentioned in this report. The problem, ladies and gentlemen: Without today's legislative decision, this more than 3 000 acres of land would be largely depleted, it would be possible, better said, to decommission without any rights, without the rights of the municipalities, without the protection of property, without transport concepts as far as transport is concerned. Only the business interest would have played the crucial role. But this new law prevents this threatening catastrophe for the Greater Graz region. [[Abg. Dr. Grollitsch: You don't know the law at all!]] Of course, there will be some, even major, changes in the administration, but I think the problems are solvable, and also the specialist staff are provided in the medium term. With the good will of all those involved, the law will be enforceable. Mr Tichy-Schreder said that the ÖVP was the mayor's party, and Mr Farnleitner also meant that the Mineral Crude Law was a Christmas gift for mayors. I believe that this is not a particularly happy formulation, Minister. It is not about the mayors, it is not about gifts for mayors or even Christmas gifts for mayors, but about preserving habitat, natural landscape and protecting hundreds of thousands of people from noise, dust and traffic. This is the decisive one, ladies and gentlemen. It is a law against the building of land treasures, it is a law for people and for habitat. That is why I would very much like to agree with this law. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make one more amendment, but I would like to point out that it is purely formal amendments, which are only one corner or one edge. [[Abg. Blünegger: Such a "good" law and an amendment! By such a "good" law!]] [[Abg. Meisinger: Why is the government coalition not being modified?]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Blünegger: Where is the initiator? Where is the initiator of this "wonderful" law?]] [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e6180	The amendment that has just been read by Dr Kräub, Member of the European Parliament, is sufficiently supported and is part of the debate. Mr Puttinger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for his excellent report. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e6204	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear High House! Despite many positive rules, such as the parties' position of the municipalities, the citizens, the annealers, of the country in the adoption of our Mineral Raw Materials Act, I would like to justify why I cannot agree to this law on two fundamental points. [[Abg. Blünegger: Yes, that would be something new!]] A legitimate reason which I would like to make clear and clear here is that I believe that the Committee's remark on the best state of the art at the end of the day cannot be put out of effect by bringing a committee remark in the way it was here by stating that the "best state of the art" in terms of content corresponds to the concept of "the state of technology according to the trade regulations, the Waste Management Act, the Emissions and Workers' Protection Act". On the other hand, the decision of the Supreme Court states that: For the interpretation of a particular body of law, only the legislative text is relevant, but not the Committee's report, if it has clearly not been found in the legislative text. This is a legal version that I also represent, and I think that should be expressed clearly and clearly here. The second reason, ladies and gentlemen, is a social policy reason, and I must say that this is all the more pressing than so many Members of this House have done here today and have said that we have the rights of the neighbours, we have supported the rights of the communities. For this reason, I must emphasize this point in particular: Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If all the people in a congregation agree that a reduction should take place if a declaration of consent from the community, the landowner, the arrant, the subsequent landowner, the neighbor is there if all the people in that congregation have agreed that an existing holding can develop, then in my legal understanding it is incomprehensible that those concerned should be prevented from developing in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Remember that in the country, living together between the farms and the population works. I can give you an example here, namely the example of Adnet, where the inhabitants live right next to a mined area and have an interest in reducing it. [[the speaker holds an image in height]] I should also like to ask Mr Eder: How should be dismantled under day in this operation? [[the speaker points to the picture]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! They know the pillars as they stand here in Parliament. It will never be possible to mine material for such a pillar there. And I can't accept that personally. [[Abg. Eder: That's not true at all!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Of course it is! Of course that's true! It says, "Only under day"!]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! For the reasons I just mentioned – one is a legal one, the other is a social policy – I have to say, unfortunately, that I cannot agree with this law, although it is good in its principles, although I expressly support it – and that is what I wish to expressly say – that the party position is so anchored in it. [[Abg. Eder: But this is a weak reason! That's not true at all!]] Excuse me a lot, but if it's not true, you can object if you want.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e6291	Mr Wallner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e6313	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I want to be on 4. December, on the feast day of Saint Barbara, first also in front of the victims of the mine disaster of Lassing and express my deep compassion to the family members. I particularly welcome the fact that public hands, but also many private donors, have contributed to reducing the suffering of the family members concerned, but also of the whole of the place. Ladies and gentlemen! But this incident has also shown us – but not only this occasion – that the mountain law belongs to novelling. I therefore welcome the many provisions that are positive, above all for the people who live near gravel pits, for the communities and for many people who now get party status and participation. I think that is a long-standing demand not only, but also social democracy. Ladies and gentlemen! However, I would also like to address a point which is contained in the law and which I personally cannot agree with. In the future, the responsibility of the main teams of the mountain will be lifted. This also concerns the mountain captain in the Montanstadt Leoben, which has over 150 years of tradition. For me, it is actually an incomprehensible measure that this legal provision gives the child a bath. I claim that the centre of Austrian mining – and I have repeatedly talked about it in the eight years of my membership to the National Council – is the city of Leoben with its world-renowned Montan University. Allow me to make a comparison here. I am of the opinion, one withdraws from Leoben the responsibility for classical mining to Vienna, then it is as if one would move the state opera to Leoben from the cultural metropolis of Vienna. If a central station for mining is set up in Vienna, then above all – I want to work this out here – the proximity to the large mining plants is lost. I only quote: Salinen AG, VOEST-ALPINE Erzberg, Veitsch, Radex, Magnesit, Rigips and many other well-known mining companies in which our country has always been so proud. Therefore, from this point of view, from the Minister for Economic Affairs, who certainly does not have it easy – and I certainly do not condemn it – I would like to ask if he intends to set up new outposts within the framework of the Mountain Authority, to also create an outside office in Leoben. We in Leoben have the necessary infrastructure conditions, know-how and experts. All other practices might be politically popular, but short-sighted and certainly wrong. Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to point out the situation of the officials concerned and their families who would have to change or commute their jobs within a very short time. I'd like to add something else. There is an above-party Obersteiermark resolution of the municipal representatives of the Styria. This resolution has truly signed hundreds – including Mr Kröll of the ÖVP, also Mr Priesschl of the Social Democratic Party, and also the liberals have supported them in terms of content – and in this it is called for the reverse way, namely that federal and regional authorities are transferred from the central areas to the periphery, to the federal states. So I think - I really want to say this - that is a completely false signal for a region that has to deal with the phenomenon of emigration very strongly. Finally, I would like to say: I am committed to the interests of my party, but also to the interests of the many people who have elected our party in our home region, in the Upper Styria, are at least 47 000. I would therefore very much like to welcome the positive sides of the mountain law in the area of gravel mining, but by the way, I do not agree with this law. - Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e6362	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry. Similarly, 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e6383	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Grollisch! I'm a little disappointed that I've been forgotten. I am also reckoning with Mr Eder, Mr Marizzi, but unfortunately I have no miners' skittle, no more than Eder and Marizzi have. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] We're practitioners. Bergmannskittel only applies to us when religious awards take place, and they are very rare. Except for this, the work chapel I'm very proud of. But it certainly doesn't matter to you. We have often heard today that it is a Husch-Fuch-Law that amendments are necessary. - So new, please, it's not. Just what you've been talking about with the Terminus technician "all against everyone" at the manager's office isn't so new. This sentence is in the assessment sent by the Ministry on the occasion of the revision of the mountain law, which is contained in the Government's proposal. They would certainly have had the opportunity to correct this sentence in committee. You have seen that the government parties are very likely to respond to concrete proposals made by the opposition parties. [[Abg. Dr. Grollitsch: This has always been pushed aside!]] That was just overlooked. But your task of participating in a sensible legislation has not been realized, Professor! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The Mineral Raw Materials Act is a matter law – and it must be emphasized again and again – a hand tool for the practitioner, as many other laws do. Of course, it will always be necessary to incorporate new developments, new insights into these material laws. It is supposed to be necessary to do so. This law, which is to be decided, should never be forgotten, already cover a broad framework. It is the interests of mining, it is the interests of the extraction of raw materials, the security of raw materials, the interests of the businesses, the interests of the economy, the interests of the arrainers, the neighbours, the municipalities, the countries and the federal government to bring into one's hat; not to forget the right of establishment, the protection of workers and the protection of the environment. It can therefore only be a compromise in such a comprehensive matter, because extremities of all the parties involved are not to be brought into a hat. Dear Members! Dear colleagues! Finally, as the last speaker in the plenary session, I would like to say the following: There has been too little reference to the state-owned, mountain-free raw materials to which this law is equally applicable. Most of the time of the discussion has been used for the gravel pits, which are actually a problem, and I do not agree either. This is a problem that has arisen because of the novice of the mountain law in 1990 and, as I hope, is solved today. However, I would also like to make a few comments on the mountain authority. Ladies and gentlemen! The Bergbehörde has been beaten in recent months. I can't speak for the Leoben Mountain Authority, but as a practitioner, I can talk about my experiences with the Vienna Mountain Authority. I have had about 250 mountaineering negotiations a year in the course of my professional activity. I have the Mountain Authority in operation at least two to three times a week. I have had to do with the Bergbehörde the protection of workers and the protection of workers in the occupational health service. . I can say from my experience that in the case of more than 1,000 mountain authorities who were issued, the number of objections was very small, not because of the fact that there was no party position, but because the decisions were well prepared. I would therefore also like to thank some Members of the Vienna Mountain Team, namely Widor, Ujvari and Spörker, for the work done. I believe that the transitional provisions are necessary that the mountain authority has not deserved the lifting it has received in recent months and that the transitional arrangements have found a reasonable way to implement this law. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e6431	It is now still Mr. Federal Minister Dr. Farnleitner in word. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e6452	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Only two clarifications and one finding: First: I have never said that the mountain law is a Christmas gift for the mayor, but I have been told by mayor that it would be her most beautiful Christmas gift. If I have been so "requoted", then I have to say that it doesn't so ignite the going of my teeth to say that. Second point: Paternion, Mrs Petrovic, is not a case for the Mountain Team, but a case of the County Headquarters. That is to say, at least once, you have completely run into the mountain authorities for nothing. I would also like to say to the Mountain Authority: Ladies and gentlemen! If you give us a new, more modern, social-political instrument with the law to be adopted here today, then the new one-stage mountain authority will also be able to act in a way that takes into account the interests of the citizens, the communities, the interested in raw materials and the neighbours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e6486	There is no more word message for this. The debate is closed. A final word by the rapporteur has not been desired. I would ask you to take the places, because we are going to vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1527 of the supplements. Mr Tichy-Schreder, Mr Eder and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment to this bill. There is a request from Mr Petrovic for a separate vote. In addition, there is a desire to vote in favour of the third reading of this draft law. First of all, I will vote in a row on the parts of the amendment and the parts concerned by the request for separate vote, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on, and at third reading. Deputies Tichy-Schreder, Eder and Comrades have tabled an amendment to Article I(3). 1 point 4. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this amendment to be a sign of approval. - That's the majority. This amendment has been accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule I(80) as amended by the Committee's report, taking account of the amendment tabled by Mr Tichy-Schreder, Mr Eder and Mr Comrades. Whoever agrees may give a sign of consent. - That's the majority. This request has been accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule I(81) to 83 as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. - That's the majority. This part of the draft is largely adopted. Finally, we shall come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report, taking into account the parts of the amendment tabled by Mr Tichy-Schreder, Mr Eder and Mr Comrades. Whoever is for it may give a sign of approval. - That's the majority. This part of the draft is largely adopted. We shall come to the third reading, for which, as I have already mentioned, a nameable vote has been called for. I shall carry out the vote by calling and by oral vote. The Members shall give their votes from the Chamber of Deputies. I would therefore ask Members to go to their places and answer the question of the writer in a loud and clear way. I would like to ask those Members who vote in favour of this draft law in third reading to reply exclusively with yes to those who vote against it. By repeating the name of the Members who have been called and by playing the vote, I will add to the pult's clarity about voting behaviour. If a Member is not present, I will expressly retain this, as do those ladies and gentlemen who are apologised for the present session. First of all, I ask the writer, Mrs Parfuss, to begin with the name call. Member of the European Parliament Auer will then replace them later. We shall begin with the voting process.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e6582	That's the end of the call. I am interrupting the sitting for the purpose of counting the votes.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e6612	Ladies and gentlemen! I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. A total of 159 votes were cast, 100 "Yes" votes and 59 "No" votes. This draft was therefore adopted by a majority of the third reading. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, stating their voting behaviour. With "Yes", the Members voted: Ablinger, Achs, Amon, Antoni, Auer, Bauer Rosemarie, Bauer Sophie, Binder, Brix, Buder, Bures; Donabauer; Eder, Edler, Ellwall; Feurstein, Fink, Fischer, Friend, Fuchs; Gaal, Gartlehner, Gatterer, Gatterer, Grabner, Gradwelt, Großruck, Gusenbauer, Hagenhofer, Heindl, Heinzl, Hlavac, Höchtl, Horngacher; Kaipel, Kampichler, Kaufmann, Doppelmüller, Khol, Kiermaier, Kiss, König, Konrad, Koppler, Kostelka, Krammer, Herbs, Kröll, Kukacka, Kummerer, Kurzbauer; Leikam, Leiner, Löschnak, Luke; Maier, Maitz, Marizzi, Mertel, Mock, Morak, Moser-Starrach, Mühlbachler, Müller, Murauer; Neisser, Niederwieser, Nowotny, Nürnberger; Oberhaidinger; Perfuss, Parnigoni, Pendl, Pittermann, Platter; Rasinger, smoke-callat, riding, Riepl; Sauer, Schirder, Schrefel, Schuster, Schwarzböck, Schwarzenberger, Schwemmlein, Seidinger, Sigl, Silhavy, Spindelegger, Stampler, Steibl, Steindl, Stippel; Tegic, Tichy-Schreider, Tychtl; For the purposes of this Regulation, Wimmer, Wormitzer. With 'No', the Members voted: Apple beck, Aumayr; Barmüller, Blünegger, Böhacker, Brauneder; Dolnschek; Fector, Firlinger, Fischl, Frieser, Gaugg, Count, Gredler, Grollitsch, Haider, Haller, Chief, Hofmann; Young; Kammerlander, Kier, Klein, Koller, Head, Krüger, Kurzmann; Lauter; Maderthaner, Madl, Marolt, Meischberger, Meisinger, Mentil, Moser Gabriela, Moser Hans Helmut; Nut trees; Oils; Partik-Pablé, Peter, Petrovic, Povysil, Preisinger, Pumberger, Puttinger; Rieß; Salzl, Schaffenrath, Scheibner, Schöggl, Schweitzer, Stadler, Stummful; Trattner, drink; Van der Bellen; Wabl, Wenitsch; Zweytick.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e6674	That concludes item 1 of the agenda. 2. Point Declaration by the Federal Minister for Science and Transport on Transport Policy in the European context
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e6701	We're coming to the 2nd. Agenda item. Following this declaration, a debate will take place within the meaning of Article 81 of the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the request of five Members present. I welcome Mr Verkehrs- und Wissenschaftsminister to our House and ask you, Federal Minister, to make the statement.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e6728	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The results of the last Council of Transport Ministers of the European Union on 30 November. ==References== Not only do Austria and the Austrian Presidency have great success on December of this year, but they are also a great success for Austria in particular. For it has succeeded in relocating road freight transport from Austria to the shorter way across Switzerland, it has succeeded in fixing conditions and also establishing conditions that result in the rejection of the Brenner complaint before the European Court of Justice, and it has succeeded in reducing both transport and the environment. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, this Council of Transport Ministers is also a good milestone for another reason, because it has succeeded in anchoring a common European Alpine transport policy, as a unanimous recognition of this particularly sensitive area has taken place. That is why we have been fighting for more than two years – including my predecessor. It is now up to Austria and ourselves to take appropriate implementing measures, and it is now also for the Minister of Economic Affairs to implement a solution in Austria, which is in line with the Road Costs Directive. In any case, the population and the environment do not differ from domestic or foreign trucks in terms of load. We should consider this in all the solutions we are looking for. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] Future developments up to 2005 and up to 2008 ensure the comparability of fees and allow the legitimate conclusion that this agreement has created a foundation for a sustainable transport policy in this area. The declaration by Germany, which is part of the package, is to introduce an electronic road pricing in Germany by 2002, and the declaration by the Netherlands to want to implement such a road pricing system in the Netherlands by 2001. It can be said that overall a breakthrough has been achieved in the direction of increasing external costs to freight transport. However, we are not yet at the end of this process. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In relation to Switzerland, road traffic will in future follow the economic principle of the shortest road. This principle and the realization of this principle mean that every day only 500 000 kilometres of lorries can be avoided every day – 500 000 kilometers per day with trucks! This means a substantial relief for people and the environment. However, it has not only succeeded in initiating a shift back to Switzerland, but has also succeeded in including the railway. Switzerland can serve as a model in many respects, as I must acknowledge without any envy, although I wish that we would also go the same way. The Swiss people voted in two referendums, at the end of September and at the end of November, with great clarity for the establishment of two additional rail routes and for the financing of these transport routes essentially by the Swiss people themselves and the transiting traffic, and I congratulate Switzerland on this decision. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ, the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] This has provided a secure basis for a further, clearly structured and environmentally friendly transport policy. [[New congratulations to the SPÖ and the Greens.]] In a similar way to Switzerland, which, in connection with this Land Transport Agreement with the European Union, ensures, by means of appropriate subsidies to the rolling land road and combined transport, that the railway will be ever better and cheaper than road traffic in transit through Switzerland, we will also go the same way in Austria. With an annual subsidy to combined transport of 200 million francs, Switzerland ensures that this tariff gap is guaranteed at 50 francs each. In the course of the agreement now concluded, Austria has committed itself to extending the rolling land road at Brenner by 75 percent and reducing the price by 30 percent. What does that mean in detail? – Today we transport about 130 000 trucks over the burner, stand 1. January 1998. In February we made an increase in the number of trains and a reduction in the tariff in a first step, with the result that we have moved another 25 000 trucks to the rails, and this offer is very well accepted. We'll be another 75 000 trucks up to 1. January 2000 can move to the railway, that is, a total of 230 000 trucks from the road to the rail! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. An important transport policy concern of Austria and Europe could thus be resolved. This does not mean, however, that we can now put our hands in the lap. Rather, the focus on the next challenges, especially the East-West transit, is now necessary. In the past, too, a consistent and clear transport policy has achieved relatively much in this regard. We have, by means of a restrictive quota policy, made a significant contribution to the fact that a large part of East-West transport has already been transferred to the rails. We have helped, through ecologically oriented incentives, to ensure that this transport is carried out more cleanly or on the rails. It is about the binding of quotas to environmentally friendly vehicles; it is about reward quotas when part of the transport takes place on the rails. We have been able to achieve a great deal by means of intermodal freight transport agreements in order to create integrated transport chains, thereby not only involving rail but also involving combined transport, i.e. unaccompanied, and waterways. We have ensured, by means of a corresponding support concept, that the offers of environmentally friendly transport have also been better accepted, for example by providing financial support for the shift to the rails in the field of public services carried by the Federal Government. We have set exceptions to the ban in the run-up and follow-up after the RoLa has been used. We have enforced recognition of driving times on the RoLa as rest periods for the truck drivers. There are a number of measures which have created a high level of attractiveness for these combined modes of transport. But we also need further measures. One of these is to develop the infrastructure of the railways accordingly. In order to shift traffic from road to rail, it is necessary to put in place appropriate expansion measures, and the railway has a considerable need for recovery in this regard. It is also important – and should not be kept silent at all – to discuss infrastructure projects at an objective level with the public, to illustrate the benefits, and thus to understand the measures, which are also associated with stress, especially in the construction period. But it is also part of our buying new rolling material for the track. For example, it will be necessary to create 1 000 additional RoLa vehicles over the next 10 years in order to meet the requirements of an environmental transport policy. In addition, however, it is an essential objective of our transport policy to contribute to moving traffic from home to rail right at the source. This is why Austria has been committed for some time to the establishment of appropriate combined transport terminals in the surrounding country and is managed and operated in such a way that they are adopted. The best example of this is – I was allowed to report occasionally here in the House – the combination terminal in Sopron, through which it manages to transfer 100 000 truck units to the rails every year. These are 100 000 trucks that do not take place on Austria's roads. I think this is a very successful approach. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Austria is currently reviewing the extent to which we can participate in other such terminals. This applies in particular to planned terminals in Györ and Bratislava, but also to an installation in Slovenia. All these projects are about moving traffic to rail as early as possible and thus contributing to environmentally friendly transport management. All these measures allow a targeted discharge policy – including for certain regions. As this is one of the particularly burdened regions, I should also like to speak to this region, namely the Berg and Kittsee border crossing. Ladies and gentlemen! We'll be on 15. The new railway link between Parndorf and Kittsee will be opened on December 1, and will have a continuous modern rail link between Bratislava and Vienna for the first time. This will enable us to develop a corresponding RoLa offer on this route, which can be accepted. I assume that we can carry at least two pairs of trains every day. However, that means that we can relieve up to 25 000 trucks per year of the mountain or of Hainburg, which today are incredibly affected by this transit traffic. I think that is an essential step, though only a first step. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I have already indicated that future European transport policy does not have to worry about meeting the challenges. The next important challenges are the increasing integration of our eastern neighbours and the associated increasing traffic volumes. In addition to the measures already mentioned, it will also be necessary – in order to ensure a sufficiently broad acceptance of the population – to provide for at least a certain period of time for regulatory measures, e.g. the maintenance of quantitative mechanisms such as a quota system or the ecopoint system, and strict verification and compliance with existing safety and environmental standards. What we are talking about is that we have not been shot off, but that we have conditions to ensure that the increasing transit of goods between East and West is organized in an environmentally friendly and efficient way. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] High house! The forecasts for the "Master Plan" are based on an increase in road traffic by up to 90 percent by 2015. According to these forecasts, rail freight transport will increase by 80 percent, and passenger transport will stagnate about. By implementing the cost-truth in transport – that is our principle, and that is the future principle for which we will also join together in Europe – you can reduce road traffic growth to 40 percent instead of 90 percent. Under these conditions, rail freight transport would increase by 220 percent compared to 1995. This is the condition under the Green Paper on efficient transport organisation in the EU. This is the condition under which external costs of transport are charged to these traffics, and under these conditions we can expect that growth on the road is lower and on the rails greater. Let me perhaps say a little more clearly, based on the graphics that an employee will distribute here in the next few minutes. We must expect that freight traffic in transit and bilateral traffic between our eastern neighbours and through Austria will be almost reduced. That is, even if we extend the West motorway to three tracks, as it is currently under discussion, or build it on four tracks, that will not be enough, but only if we build it on five tracks in each direction, it will be possible to handle this traffic in a truly sustainable way. I think that there is no one here in the House of Lord to the illusion that it would be possible to develop the West Railway ten-track. That cannot be our goal, and that is why we are calling for a shift in traffic to the rails. It is about dealing with this traffic, but it is environmentally friendly and easy to handle. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I'm finally coming to the end, Hohes Haus. On Sunday, the Swiss government received a very clear mandate to expand the railway infrastructure in a referendum with over 60 percent approval. I would be happy if it were also extended in Austria to provide the population with material foundations that would enable an intrusive dialogue and an objective decision on solutions and alternatives to the road also in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e6832	Mr Federal Minister, thank you very much for your comments. The first speaker to speak is Mr Magistrate. Schweitzer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e6856	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The success which has just been announced by Mr Eins, ladies and gentlemen, should not have been particularly impressed by the ÖVP, at least the applause given or not donated by the ÖVP has clearly shown otherwise. [[Abg. Koppler:... are remarkable!]] Federal Minister! I believe that the inhabitants of Nickelsdorf, Klingenbach and Heiligenkreuz, too, to stay at Burgenland border crossings, will not be impressed by the "success" you have listed here at the speaker's desk. They have also said in the same breath that there will be a reduction in traffic. And in these areas too, the forecasts will lead to a quadruple of truck transit! People will be able to sell what you have negotiated as a success, while the future will provide them with a fourfold traffic hall – already now they are suffering from the simple traffic hall, but in the future they will experience a quadruple of these traffic halls! –, it's remarkable. It is almost cynical to speak of successes, Mr Federal Minister! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This also shows the fact that you have not been able to implement the proposals on Euro-Vignette made by the British Presidency. They could not realize them, especially in the area of "old instincts" - I call them now - which particularly concern the people of the mentioned villages. We have a far lower result of a total of 100 ECU instead of the UK proposal. – Minister! This concerns precisely these environmentally harmful trucks with the particularly high emissions of pollutants. The other fishermen who have already invested in environmentally sound trucks could not enjoy a reduction in this proposal for a negotiation. However, it is very likely that the pollution-free trucks will enjoy a 100 ECU reduction in the original proposal. Minister! You can't sell us such a thing as success, I mean at least! And the East Austrians will already "thank you" when they see that the "success", which was theoretically announced from above, in practice does not find any precipitation. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! If you sell us a success that is there, the EU will not complain about Brennermaut now, then it will be left to you. But do you really want to sell this toll stretch to the Austrians as a success? Do you want to sell it as a success that an inner Austrian connection now costs up to 460 S for inner Austrian fishermen who are now burdened with enormous additional costs? In addition, Mr Federal Minister, you know as well as I do that this "success" you are selling here as such is unconstitutional. So at least Professor Perenthaler says – I quote –: "Because a single Austrian economic area is challenged by this measure, this success is unconstitutional." - Quote. Is this really a success, Mr. Federal Minister?! – Let’s see if this regulation is in place at all! [[Abg. May. Stadler: He has never taken care of the Constitution!]] Now to the Swiss agreement, Federal Minister: Is it really a success if more than 400 000 trucks – that is how much this so-called transit has already been done in total; because of the measures taken by Switzerland 400 000 trucks have been driven more through Austria – perhaps, perhaps, Federal Minister, 200 000 are relocated. Even then we still remain 200 000 transit trucks. – Is this a success, Mr. Federal Minister?- Oh, my God! Is this a success if the higher toll in Switzerland – and that is a fact – will further reduce these numbers?- Oh, my God! – It is to be expected that the higher toll will lead to the fact that the transit will not be relocated to Switzerland to the extent that you want to make us believe that! It is remarkable, Mr Federal Minister, that Switzerland, as a non-EU member, was treated better than the EU member of Austria – and this must be broken down on the tongue, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Seidinger: Railway expansion!]] Not we in Austria have a reason to rejoice. In Switzerland they have every reason to rejoice! It is clear that the level of toll will certainly be of particular importance for future transport flows. And you, Mr Federal Minister, have not achieved your goal of increasing the difference between Switzerland and Brenner to a maximum of 20 ECU. The difference is 500 S! And these 500 S are an argument that these trucks will go through Austria again. Nevertheless, you have failed to accept the safeguard clause which you have often proclaimed and invented before the negotiations. – Minister of State! To abandon this safeguard clause under such conditions is a betrayal of Austrian interests! I would like to say that clearly and clearly to you. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is also confirmed by the other side. This is confirmed, for example, in the Tuesday issue of the regarded semi-official EU paper "Europe", which reports on the impact of the finalisation – I quote – on: "The Brenner protection clause requested by Austria has been dropped in favour of the agreement with Switzerland, which is what traffic congestion" – how do you define this, Mr. Federal Minister? – "avoid helping." - Quote. So nothing is going to happen when we move back to Switzerland, Minister of State. – Are you calling the success?- Oh, my God! Ladies and gentlemen! This Minister of Transport celebrates successes that are not at all possible! This Minister is investing 32 million Schilling in an advertising campaign against freight transport, but he has to ensure its functioning! This must be kept clear and clear: This Minister is promoting a shift from transport to rail that does not exist! Federal Minister! How much rail was built by strings, climate, schools – he was also very short transport minister – and one? How many miles did you build? How many kilometres of rail have been built over the same period? What kind of rail do you want to shift to, Mr. Federal Minister?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This minister, as the only Austrian, interprets a special Court of Auditors report on the Semmering Base Tunnel as a confirmation of an absolutely pointless project – I emphasize: as the only Austrian; right, together with his boss, the Chancellor – although the core statement is precisely this report: to build on would be the biggest mistake. [[Interlocutory call to the liberals]] Federal Minister! That was just a short collection and presentation of your "success". . However, we liberals call these successes rather than miscarriage, and these miscarriages have now also overstepped the patience of the coalition partner, as I could see. Mr Kukacka! You have fundamentally changed your opinion between the last debate on transport and today's debate, if you say that this Court of Auditors report reads like a deficit catalogue of social-democratic transport policy. Strings, climate, schools and one would have dileted around the Semmering Base Tunnel and led to a long list of transport policy failures and omissions in this area. And my colleague, Mr. Lukesch, was also blazed. Was it a day earlier, or was it still a day earlier? – coming from the science community by saying – I quote –: According to the Semmering disaster and the unacceptable plan to implement the goal of fully-justifiable universities, Transport and Science Ministers The next huge Schnitzer is also achieved in the context of the Swiss-Brenner Agreement in the EU Transport Council. – End of the quote. Mr Lukesch! The Minister says "success", you say "violent schnitzer". And Mr Lukesch of the ÖVP comes to the conclusion. He says – I quote –: One policy is not a cause for rejoicing for us, but it is more and more displeasing to those concerned, whether it be at universities or at road users. - Quote. Mr Lukesch! We are there a sense with you and with the Transport Spokesman of the ÖVP, Mr Kukacka, because the Minister's response to the Court of Auditors' report and his negotiating line in the transit question has clearly demonstrated that he does not represent Austrian interests in any way. Perhaps he is in no way able to represent the same. There is already a collection of innumerable misdeeds of this minister. And I think you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, are right today when we say again: This minister can no longer have the confidence of this National Council! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, let us once again give you the opportunity to really do what you say to the public outside of the public about your press service. Do what you always want to make the public believe! Do you agree that you do not agree with this Minister that you want a reasonable transport policy which this Minister is unable to do? Do what we propose to him as part of the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mein Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! Your announcements should be followed by actions at the latest!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e7006	Mr Mag. Schweitzer! The request made by you is not available here at the Bureau. Please correct that. [[Oje-Rufe at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: A spontaneous request of the liberals! He'll be handed over!]] – Thank you very much, the request will be submitted. The next speaker is Mr Parnigoni. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e7045	High house! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The international and national press celebrate the outcome of the EU Transport Council as a major success of the Austrian Presidency. Ladies and gentlemen! Even though some Austrians, including politicians, are sparingly dealing with the recognition of achievements in politics, we should jump over our shadows and Mr Caspar, Federal Minister Congratulations to this objective success! I like to do this! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This means a general trend change in European transport policy. I would like to explain this on the basis of a number of points. Firstly, the recognition of a different road use fee has been enforced as a principle and thus a first major step towards cost-truth has been taken. Secondly, it is a signal that ecological economies are simply rewarded, for the more environmentally hostile the truck is, the higher the toll or the price for the vignette will be. Thirdly, it means the enforcement of the principle of relocation of freight transport, heavy transport, from road to rail. And it means a relocation of at least 200 000 trucks to Switzerland, away from Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: We already had that!]] The fourth point, Mr Lukesch, is the recognition of the demand for massive expansion of the railway infrastructure. We should take an example in this regard in Switzerland and should really see and review this very positively. If you read today's newspapers, you will find out that the Austrian construction companies expect enormous orders from Switzerland or from the tunnel initiative and the safeguarding of numerous jobs. The Swiss will make it, it seems we are not. I therefore believe that there has now been a real signal from Europe. Fifthly, it means confirming the foundations of the Austrian "Master Plan", with which we provide for another 160 billion schilling for the expansion of the railways over the next 15 years, and sixthly, that the introduction of the truck-road pricing will be urgently necessary so that no further unilateral burdens on the Austrian economy are carried out. At present, ladies and gentlemen, on the high-level roads, we actually have 20 percent of the trucks that don't pay for anything, namely those who come from abroad. – That cannot really be our goal. High house! If the FPÖ does not see success in it, it may be related to its strange emotional life. If you get daily greetings from "love Peter" from Fortaleza, if you turn to the Party of Refugees and if you have painting and uprising problems in Lower Austria, then this irritates you! This can, of course, cloud the vision for things, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. May. Stadler: I have never forced a Member to vote, as you do, Mr Parnigoni! You should have your speech tool...]] Mr Schweitzer. The fact, contrary to your criticism, is that the relocation will be made clear, because transport through Switzerland will become cheaper overall, because two hours of longer journey from Cologne to Milan, therefore higher travel costs due to more kilometers and higher personnel costs. Ladies and gentlemen! In addition, Switzerland has provided 1.6 billion skilling per year for combined transport, with the aim of making the passage by train cheaper by 50 francs than on the road. – This is an advanced transport policy, ladies and gentlemen. We can only welcome that. These are the measures that will clearly guarantee relocation! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now the criticism of the Greens, which has been presented almost equally in today's media by the Members of Parliament in committee and by Mr Voggenhuber. She was equally fundamentalist and false. The accusation that this is an environmental downturn is completely incomprehensible, because for the first time, the price of the euro vignette with higher rates for exhaust-rich trucks – an environmental objective – is planned and, on the other hand, 500 000 kilometres of trucks per day will be added to the agreement in future – I emphasize that every day! – avoid detour traffic. And if you say that this is an environmental downturn, you are, I think, at the wrong event, Mrs Kammerlander. [[Abg. May. Kammerlander: What about the cost-truth?]] I would like to congratulate Mr Barmüller and the Liberal Forum on their attitude. They have clearly acknowledged the achievements of the Minister in the Committee. I am also satisfied with the position of the ÖVP, ladies and gentlemen, that I have no problem at all. The positive remarks made by the King of Parliament in the main committee are just a few hysterical remarks from Tyrol – I understand, there are elections in front of the door. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: "Hysterical" – I can see that!]] Parliamentary King said in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection: Firstly, a victory of reason; secondly, it is the result of political feasibility; thirdly: The Austrian interests have kept to the best possible level; fourth, the relocation of transit to Switzerland is ensured; fifth, investment in rail infrastructure is urgent and increasingly necessary; sixthly, I quote King: the introduction of road pricing has become more urgent. – Ladies and gentlemen! With this position of the ÖVP I have no problem at all, with which I can live. I am convinced that Mr Kukacka will also support this ÖVP position. [[Abg. May. Main: This is your opinion!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This result is a clear commitment to the will to design as a principle of government against the lowliness of mind. Thus we are in the Austrian infrastructure and also in the expansion of the infrastructure on the rails. Ladies and gentlemen! In this discussion, the credibility of some people is very questionable. If, on the one hand, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Dr. Haider, who is not managing a business, clearly demands the construction of the Semmering Base Tunnel in the Memorandum, but today rejects it, I think, the House has clearly lost its credibility on this issue. The story has overtaken him – as you say so beautifully. [[Abg. Böhacker: The political groups have not changed!]] High house! ==References== In July 1991, he signed an agreement calling for the construction of the Semmering base tunnel for the realization of high-performance rail transport, on the one hand, and on the other the continuation of the line for regional transport and for the tourism of the region on the other. ==References== In October 1993, Pröll founded its signature under the basic agreement, which clearly supported the construction of tunnels, so that the interest of the endangered Ghega railway was in the foreground only. – That was far-sighted, because the UNESCO decision gives it the right: The preservation of the 150-year-old Ghega railway will be important for tourism, will be important for regional transport. Whoever as a recipient, who will be available as an operator of this route, we will still discuss it, we will still have to talk about it. However, if we look at the future and the development of the future at the southern tangent, ladies and gentlemen, then we see that we have a doubling of passenger transport, a triple of freight transit and an increase in freight traffic to and from Austria by one and a half times. Then the Court of Auditors is right, Mr Hohes Haus, when he speaks of lengthy approval procedures and the increase in construction time and criticises that. Every year delays cost – only considered from the index! – 240 million more schilling. And then the Court of Auditors can criticise the fact that the cost of the tunnel is increasing from 4.2 billion to 7.9 billion. But by what and by whom has this delay actually been brought about? . It has been caused by a delay in the proceedings, as the Court of Auditors correctly notes, which was caused by the head of state Pröll. The HL-AG was forced by the Land of Lower Austria to make concessions, namely, first, to refrain from intermediate attacks, second, openly planned sections to cross, and third, openly planned slopes to move into the mountain. The cause of these costs is the Dutch head of state Pröll, ladies and gentlemen. This will have to be fair for these additional costs. High house! Remarkable is the different handling of nature conservation rights in Lower Austria. There were exactly three conditions in the road tunnel. The first: Protection from flying birds – okay – the second: the discoloration of the administrative building and the third: the re-greening of the waste material on a landfill, which is still in the landscape protection area. – These are the only three conditions. With these conditions, there would be no problem at all with the construction of the railway tunnel, ladies and gentlemen. High house! It cannot be said that a country captain is taking the Republic hostage! [[Congratulation with the SPÖ and the Abg. May. Kammerlander.]] It is about a macroeconomic development of the south of our Republic, it is about expanding the railway infrastructure including Semmering base tunnel, because the south of this country depends on it – especially now that the EU has decided to shift freight from road to rail in the Transport Council. We are therefore in solidarity with the Carinthians and Steirers! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] High house! I comply with the principle: Only those who act will trust in him. [[Abg. Böhacker: That's why you have so little confidence!]] That's why we're going to implement the construction of the Semmering base tunnel. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The Constitutional Court will decide that!]] We will enforce it, of course, taking into account judicial decisions. We will enforce him – I quote "The press" from 1.12. – an alliance of self-proclaimed environmentalists who stand for the road tunnel, against a boulevard press and against populist national politicians. And by the way, Mr Schweitzer: You will be deceived by your prognosis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e7214	The former one by Mr Magn. Sweitzer's motion for a resolution has been properly tabled, duly supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Magistrate has also been reported to speak. Barmüller. 10 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e7238	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to point out in detail, as far as the statements made by my predecessor Parnigoni are concerned, that the South of Austria, as far as rail links are concerned, and this has clearly been said about the upper Irish region, does not suffer from capacity problems. It must also be made clear that on the Semmering track, which should have been replaced by the Semmering base tunnel, there is not a capacity problem, but on the lead and runways. That is why there will be a need to do something there. In particular, the discussion on the Semmering base tunnel will have to tell those people who live in the Mur/Mürztal, what additional traffic burdens will come on them on the rail and what noise protection measures are planned. – These are all things that have not been talked about so far and for which there are no plans either. Mr Parnigoni! There is also no statement as to how to create connections to Carinthia and that, in fact, the nodes in St. Michael represent a much larger capacity problem than other routes from Vienna towards Bruck. - All of this has not been said. The fact that the Semmering base tunnel is shot politically, I understand. It will certainly not become uninteresting within the framework of the great coalition if the SPÖ marches in the political landscape with head of state Klasnic against Mr. Landeshuptmann Pröll. But this discussion goes beyond the real problems. That is what I wanted to say, in summary, about your remarks. I do not want to say today, ladies and gentlemen, that the Liberals also regard what has now been negotiated in Brussels as a success. We therefore think that this is a success, because after a long-term situation, an output from this "deadlock" could be found. There will be an introduction of ecological parameters in the Road Costs Directive, and there will be at least 200 000 trucks that will no longer pass through Tyrol. This is a success because now it is increasing – compared to the routes! – adequate financial conditions will prevail. This is therefore to be described as positive. The Federal Minister will certainly still be saying that the failure of the safeguard clause, which has been mentioned so often, has not taken place. As far as Mr Schweitzer's comments are concerned, I would just like to say: I am surprised that Mr Schweitzer, who is always a very vehement defender of the ecological tax reform here when it comes to making nails with heads and saying that truck traffic must also be subject to non-discriminatory taxes, is suddenly sucking back. This makes him unbelievable, of course, because if we are in favour of an ecological tax reform, this must not only affect the transport of goods and goods, but also passenger transport. And that is something the Federal Government has so far – and that to a great extent! - has neglected. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I would also like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that what Mr Bundesminister has put forward in terms of growth forecasts is always only those in which the present situation is assumed. Although there is an assessment in the "Master Plan" in the light of the European Union's Green Paper, a consistent implementation of environmental conditions in the field of transport is simply not ventured in the political sphere. In particular, the presentation of investments in infrastructure, which was also addressed by the Federal Minister today, shows that we must decide: Either we have a lot of traffic and invest tax money in the expansion of the transport lines – or we decide not to make tax increases and no further expansion of the infrastructure, at least not to this extent, and to ensure that honest environmental tax reform does not constantly centralize production, which brings about automatic transport, but that production is more decentralised, so that transport is avoided from the outset, because it is not just a single point that we have to produce something and then distribute it in all directions. This would have a positive impact on the labour market, but is something that is simply not discussed, even here in this House! That's a failure, and we're going to sue this over and over again! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am surprised that the opportunity to talk about this agreement today is not also used to say what will be necessary in the context of a tax reform, which is also to be made in our country, for example in the case of differentiated car taxes. I am also surprised that, when talking about traffic loads, only transit traffic is actually being addressed, that is, foreign trucks – but it is not discussed that there are target and source traffic in Austria too, which is a high burden and will only be accompanied by an ecological tax reform. This should not narrow the success at international level in relation to Tyrol, Switzerland and transport agreements, but should be considered as part of an overall picture. However, it is important not only to focus on this part and to neglect the remaining part completely, especially as it is much larger overall. We therefore call for this discussion to be held. Above all, ladies and gentlemen, although we also consider the development of the rail network to be important, we do not consider every project essential, Mr Parnigoni. In particular, the survival of the ÖBB will depend not only on additional routes and capacities, but in particular on whether the ÖBB is able to benefit the customer. And that concerns freight transport on the one hand. You too, Mr Parnigoni, know that, for example, capacity in freight transport is, so to speak, the second problem. The lack of punctuality and the more frequent damage to goods are a much larger problem. Therefore, something must also be done in this regard within the framework of the ÖBB in order to increase punctuality in the supply of goods and goods, because then this means of transport will certainly be more accepted. As I said, That's where the ÖBB has a lot to pick up. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to say that public transport public transport can only be scored by customer-friendliness. The fact that the service orientation – I am now talking about the creatives – is good in the train itself is undisputed, but that otherwise much is in the bad, be noted here. As an "excellent" example, I call in this context the current advertising campaign of the ÖBB, in which women are called "hot cargo". On the part of the ÖBB, one has obviously still not understood that the omission of discriminatory advertising would be a better way of removing the modernity of the railway, a non-proliferation of half the paying audience, namely the women. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen: If the documents we have now been distributed clarify that there will be relocations that the relocation represents the actual part of what can be reduced in traffic loads in Austria, then it will also be clear that nothing has actually been changed in terms of the conditions. The green part here concerns the relocation to RoLa, the rest concerns the relocation on Swiss roads. [[the speaker shall present a graphic]] Ladies and gentlemen! If there is no consistent environmental tax reform, then this victory of the Federal Minister One at European level, which is undoubtedly to be described as a success, will only be a Pyrrhus victory in the medium term, because the problems lie in the overall framework conditions – and not only in transit traffic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e7355	Mr Magistrate has also been reported to speak. Kukacka. 12 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e7376	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! First of all, on Mr Schweitzer's comments, which I do not see here at the moment. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Here!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] There he is, right back. It was to be expected, Mr President, that in the course of today's debate, the FPÖ will once again return to a small transport policy envelope. And of course you have fulfilled this expectation. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] We didn't expect anything else. Your problem in these discussions is that you are so immoderate, exaggerate, and thus harm your own credibility. [[Call to the ÖVP:Dobermen...!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: What about Mr. Habsburg?]] This is your problem, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, and you have done so again today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] You have to deal with this problem – and with the "respect" that this kind of policy enjoys in public; I would like to expressly say that here. Ladies and gentlemen! In any case, we of the ÖVP will deal intensively with all transport policy issues – but constructive and serious! In any case, we are not to have for a pre-eminent political court. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] As far as transport policy is concerned, we also consider: Everything at the right time, at the right place and at the right place. We have already made very critical comments on the "Master Plan" which is now in the Committee on Transport. On the Court of Auditors' report, we have already made very critical comments in the Court of Auditors' Committee, which is the right place. And the debate on the Brenner Base Tunnel and the transit agreements will be held today in this debate, ladies and gentlemen. Today, the outcome of the decisions taken by the EU Transport Council is a discussion, and this will be a very concrete, very critical one, but also a very constructive one. In our view, the results of the negotiations of this EU Transport Council do not give rise to euphoria, as is expressed in some media or in some political opinions. These results are also not a "milestone" for European transport policy, as the Federal Chancellor has just said. This is totally unacceptable in our view. These negotiating results represent only a modest, but in principle the right step – I agree – into the future of transport policy. Why is that a real step? – With this agreement, the action against the Brenner-Maut is practically out of the table. This will save us the billions of possible legal demands, which could have been the case in the event of a conviction. As a result of the agreement on the Swiss transit agreement, the Swiss must also gradually increase the transit quotas, the As of 2005, transport will be completely liberalised and a 40-ton weight limit for Switzerland will also be introduced. That – at least we can expect – will bring back to the shorter route across Switzerland, which there has been due to the lower cost of the Brenner route. Switzerland had to submit clearly in respect of its former position on transit quotas and tariffs. And this is a success, for you should recognize as such! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Commission expects and has also maintained this – and we also expect this – that significant 200 000 journeys can be relocated from Brenner to Switzerland; it has also made an appropriate statement in the Transport Council. It is also a success that there have been joint policy decisions, although of course only compromises, on cross-border freight transport and on a road pricing with some countries. However, ladies and gentlemen, the positive aspects of this agreement are also largely exhaustive. From the point of view of Tyrol – and this too, ladies and gentlemen, is essential to us, because the Tyroleans are the main people concerned – I must say with regret, Mr Minister, that you have not actually said anything in your statement here today. Although they have spread relatively much over the East-West transit and the creation of railway connections in the Burgenland, you have said little to nothing in this context to the pressing problems of the Tyroleans, and I regret that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is not only our opinion that Mr Niederwieser has also mentioned, because he has said that the additional burden of the Unterinntal by extending the toll between Innsbruck and Kufstein is already quite a whirlwind drop of these results. And that's exactly our position. Although the current Brenner rate – which was always demanded by the Tyroleans – is kept at the expense of the decorating of the Unterinntalskrecken and thus at the expense of the Tyrolean economy and the economic location Tirol. How these burdens can be removed, Mr Federal Minister, how a compensation can be created here in order to prevent any distortion of competition at the expense of Tyrol, at the expense of its companies, at the expense of its economic location, about it, Mr Federal Minister, will still have to be discussed intensively, when it comes to the concrete implementation of this agreement in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This implementation, as far as the design of the toll is concerned, gives us a certain margin, and it must be used in the interests of Austria, in the interest of Tyrol. There's still some work waiting for you. I also recall the constitutional problem, which Mr Schweitzer pointed out, as far as the toll stretching is concerned only in the Unterinntal, because it may have violated the principle of equality for regional economics. These questions, ladies and gentlemen, still need to be resolved, and this requires a constructive attitude by all those involved and everyone involved. The toll mentioned by you, Mr Federal Minister, in the amount of around 450 s per trip on the Unterinntal line will probably not be acceptable. In the final analysis, it also contradicts the Council of Ministers' proposal of 17 December. It has also been agreed and defined as the basis for these negotiations in June, which has been mentioned for this route 150 S. A further drop in advertising is the fact that you obviously could not reach a safety clause during the negotiations. It would be necessary in the event that a repatriation of the transit to Switzerland does not occur to the extent that it is expected. In any case, it will be necessary to observe very critically whether the Commission's expectation that a shift of 200 000 trucks will occur will actually be fulfilled. It will be necessary to consider concrete measures in the event that this relocation does not occur. Finally, Mr Federal Minister, we also have certain reservations about the style with which these negotiations have been concluded. Neither the head of state of Tyrol nor the Minister for Economic Affairs nor the Foreign Minister were informed of you before the final conclusion of the negotiations on the last state of play, nor were they asked what their views on this last negotiating position were. It would have been in the interests of all interested parties and, above all, in the interest of joint implementation of the transport ministers' decisions in Austria if there had been an exchange of information and opinions on the outcome of the negotiations. In any case, this would have facilitated the further operation, in particular with the country of Tyrol. That is why we regret that this has not happened, although we note that you are not obliged to do so within the framework of your ministerial responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen! Now it is about taking sensible implementation steps within the framework that this agreement has given us. This also includes the recognition that we need to get even more involved in European transport policy. Austrian special or island solutions are not feasible. Transport problems must be solved at European level. This must be considered in the introduction of the motorway fee, i.e. the flat-covering road pricing, for which the similarity with the EU or at least with the most important neighbouring countries must be sought. This applies both to the level of the toll and to the technical implementation. We believe that the Transport and Economic Ministers should put pressure on them at European level and that it is necessary to ensure that road pricing is introduced quickly across the EU, thus finding alliance partners, for example in the Federal Republic of Germany, in order to keep the agreed date of 2001 and 2002. Finally, it is also important to do housework in Austria with regard to the extension of the railways. In particular, it is also important to reduce the price for the RoLa in general and, above all, in the Unterinntal, as the EU also demands, even though the ÖBB has no pleasure because they are currently able to enforce its monopoly price. That is why we need, in addition to the expansion of the rail, which is in full swing, and above all in the Unterinntal valley – and for that we also confess ourselves, and that is also necessary – to liberalise the railway routes. We also support the announcements you have made in this regard. We consider the resistance of the ÖBB trade union to be counterproductive and incomprehensible, Mr Federal Minister. It should also be clear to the Federal Railways Union that the common objective of increasing traffic on the rails requires a much more powerful and competitive railway. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Only then, ladies and gentlemen, will the rail be an essential mode of transport; there is still much to be done. With this, ladies and gentlemen, I am at the end. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: I think so!]] If we deal quickly and consistently with the problems I have raised, if we are to address the related legal, organisational and political problems together with the country of Tyrol, together with the European Union, then we have the opportunity to accept the framework agreements found by EU transport ministers to resolve transit problems in Austria and also in Tyrol, then we have taken an important step towards addressing our problems with cross-border freight transport. In any case, we from the ÖVP are willing to make a constructive contribution to this.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e7522	Mrs Dr. Moser is also speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 10 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e7544	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, the sun shines over One – at least in the headline. Finally, there is a first negotiated conclusion during the Austrian EU Presidency. Formal was put to a close. But: First of all, it is a sham success, and second of all, the content of the conclusion is highly questionable. Thus, we have practically no presence in this Treaty of what you, Mr Minister, call success, not what you, Mr. Collegue, are about with "recognisable conclusion", but with this agreement we have, in principle, defined the task of cost-reliance for the coming years in the EU, the termination or the expiry of the transit agreement and the exit for ecopoints from 2003. They have signed a contract that will more or less protect us from increasing truck traffic if no cost-truth occurs. You, Mr Minister, have not accepted the cost truth, but you have not accepted, not introduced, by the form of the euro vignette, as it has now been decided. Yes, you have not even mentioned it today. It was extremely significant for me that today you have not brought a word, no syllable, not even an I-tumble over the euro vignette. That is the actual defeat of this Treaty. This is more or less the turning point that has been achieved by the other countries vis-à-vis the Alpine countries. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This must be kept clear and clear here and now: It is once again a sham solution. Concrete: They have achieved a success in withdrawing the action – no question. Only if one had just brought this toll stretching into the negotiations, and the matter would have been done. We might also have been able to save ourselves from a case before the Constitutional Court if we had introduced road pricing all over Austria – 1998 was the original date – and if we were now pushing forward an eco-tax reform discussion, in which the road performance-dependent mileage charge is also a fixed component. If we had this discussion, we would have taken such decisions, we would not have to fear for the toll or for any action at the Constitutional Court. But you go the way, you go off, you act after a problem already the next one again, because you do not work in principle. I would like to come back to the basics once again. Minister! In connection with the relocation of truck traffic, they have talked about the great success of Austria. According to your calculations, this will soon be 200,000 trucks a year. I'm telling you, that's only half of the transit, and that's what you're admitting. I also say to you that this relocation is very quickly and early compensated for by the increase in truck traffic as a whole. Not for nothing, Mr Kukacka Deutschland is asking – I am glad that it is a red-green government that you are asking – to be an alliance partner, so that the cost truth on the road finally takes place, so that there is driving-performance-related mileage. Müntefering is for it now, but who has exerted more or less pressure? It was the Greens. Well, I'm glad we're your new alliance partners. But, please, then in Austria you finally do what we have long said! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] A little more to the problem area relocate, detour transit. Your graphics, which you have gratefully distributed with incredible PR intelligence, show for the year 2005 without agreement 450 000 trucks that would detour. [[the speaker shows a graphic]] With agreements it is 390 000. If you deduct these, 60,000 trucks will remain as a result of the relocation in 2005. Please, what's the result? Switzerland has been very, very much defeated. Switzerland has now accepted the 40-tonner much earlier. Switzerland was able to maintain a night's driving ban with a lack of courage and need. Please, we don't have that on the burner! Although we have the double night's toll, which also has a restrictive effect, we are still in the back of Switzerland because we have no night's driving ban. They have repeatedly rejected the Greens' requests for no-night driving ban. Now we are still in the process of meeting in this area. Now, as before at night, although it is more expensive to donate truck traffic over the burner. No question. I therefore also come to the so-called "rolling country road", which also offers you as a discharge argument and as a discharge rail in the truest sense of the word. With the "rolling land road" there is a problem that the truck has to get up on the wagon, drive along the train and then go down again. It's not a shelf to shelf transport. Overall, it would be better to switch freight to container transport where the container is transferred from truck to rail and then to another truck in another state and then to the company. The "rolling country road" is a crutch. It requires more energy because the tractor, the truck, has to be carried on the train. Especially in the ascents at the burner, it takes more power, more energy, more electricity, more electricity, argues from ecology. In this respect, the "rolling land road" is a crutch, but it is not the solution. The solution is the principle shift to the rail with the container traffic. There must certainly be what has already happened today, I believe, Mr Barmüller: an increase in quality also with regard to the ÖBB in terms of punctuality, an increase in quality also in terms of infrastructure at terminals, at loading stations. – So far as the field of relocation is concerned, as far as the "rolling land road" area is concerned. Now for the model Switzerland. I am very pleased, Minister, that you have referred to the Swiss solution with the two referendums. This is because we can see what comes out of transport policy if the people can decide, that is to say far better performance than people's representatives and partly a counterproductive government. In Switzerland we have the road performance-dependent mileage in the truck area on a cross-border basis. I'm emphatically emphatizing. You have addressed the road pricing, which is to come to us in 2002, four years later than planned and – I say it extra – in castrated form, because your road pricing is a pure tolling of the motorways with individual toll stations at a distance of 70 kilometres. This means that we have what you also complained about, namely a division of freight traffic on the road in Austria: Parts of the motorway, where you have to pay, and parts of the motorway, namely between these stations, where you do not have to pay. Please, that's not a cost truth! There's a part-cost truth! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Look at what the ASFINAG has to offer you: around the central areas – Vienna, Linz, Innsbruck – no tolling point. As a result, truck transport, which also has the largest percentage in the regional area, is completely unhindered, beyond any cost-truth, beyond any road pricing. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Mr Farnleitner is responsible for this!]] This Austrian road pricing solution is an insurmountable one. We must adopt the Swiss model, and this Swiss model can also be designed in accordance with EU standards. I can also do this privately or in the Committee on Transport. [[Abg. Parnigoni: But you also say this to Mr Farnleitner?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Who is the ÖVP of the coalition partners? Not from us!]] The next point: Terminals. Minister! They spoke in detail about the East-West transit. In my view, this is also the main problem that this conclusion of the contract continues to serve us. In order to get the East-West transit really onto the rail, we need to injunctify as part of the East-West extension: If not the track is chosen, there is no way to drive the truck to an increased extent through our country. The problem is – you know it yourself from discussions with Dr. Draxler – that the price on the railway is rising in the east and the price is falling in the east of the truck. What we have with us then, if we get this minimal form of road pricing only laborious, is indicated here in your graphics, but to far too little. [[the speaker holds a graphic presentation in the height]] We have massive increases in Austria during the East-West transit. When it comes to cost truth, it's not that big, but we have it. Look at your next graphic! [[The speaker shows the Federal Minister a graphic.]] These are the terminals. But where are the terminals? – The terminals are in Bratislava, in Györ and also in Szombathely, in Steinamanger. But that's practically just the direction from east to west. Look at the map, Minister! How does it look in Germany? Munich – nothing! Then how does the transport from Germany to the East go? Where are the terminals? – So that’s the challenge! Federal Minister! We still have ecopoints. We now have a quota for East-West transit. The suspension comes, and you delete the ecopoints! I mean, it's going to be more than five times. And that is the Humbug that has happened in this Treaty: that you have not negotiated any reinsurance clause for the East-West transit and that, with the consent of the Euro-Vignette, you have not been able to make the cost-truth – external pan-European costs – effective that you have set up another stumbling block with the Euro-Vignette of European transport policy and specifically of Austrian transit policy. That was the result!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e7658	The floor has been reported next to Mr Dr. Niederwieser. 7 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e7680	Federal Minister! Mr President. High house! I was asked two days ago in the main committee whether I was affected because I was able to warm up for this agreement as a whole. There are probably only a few Members here in the hall who are as affected as I am, whose constituency consists of the districts of Innsbruck-Land and Schwaz. Innsbruck-Land goes to the burner. We have the Brenner-Tout, and now the route through the Schwaz district is to be renewed. So if someone here in the hall needs to think thoroughly whether he agrees to this agreement or not, because next year's elections, then you can believe me: I don't make this easy! What were our transport policy objectives from which we assumed? – It was the three of them. Firstly, the relief of the people from heavy traffic. Secondly, the shift from road to rail as the most environmentally friendly and safe means of transport. At the same time, we all want to achieve the third objective of safeguarding jobs, safeguarding economic sites. And the Unterinntal is an important economic location. The question now is: Are the contracts bringing us closer to these three objectives? – Switzerland lifts the 28-tonne limitation. All 40-toners, who have so far taken the detour over Tyrol, will gradually pass over Switzerland. And for the German and northern Italian economic areas, for example into Milan, it will be clear purely for economic reasons that the trucks will then drive across Switzerland. We can get the more expensive night's toll. Mr Moser! The introduction of the euro vignette is certainly not the last goal. We could have imagined more. But in a number of European countries, it brings an increase in truck traffic, a better account of the costs it has incurred than has been the case so far. Germany undertakes to introduce a road pricing in 2002. Holland says ehnli-ches; Holland will also introduce the road pricing. In addition, Austria. We have already taken the relevant decisions in Parliament. Combined transport will be significantly cheaper, and the operators and freight forwarders will increasingly transport the goods on the railways. In addition, additional capacity comes through two railway tunnels in Switzerland and through the third track through the Unterinntal. [[Abg. May. Trattner: By an additional track?]] Mr Trattner, the environmental impact assessment procedure for this project is in the final phase. You know that. So the next step will be the construction phase. This will overall be a very environmentally friendly project and coordinated with the population. So you can say it right and right: The first two objectives – the relief of the people from heavy traffic and the shift from road to rail – have been achieved by this agreement or have we come closer to them with very large steps. More was certainly not inside in this European constellation. [[Abg. Blünegger: (in the direction of SPÖ) The citizen will show it to you!]] I come to the third point, to secure the economic location, and that is a very crucial point. Then: It is not easy to explain to someone that there, where no toll has been removed, from now on toll is to be paid to Maut. You can believe me! It would be necessary once for each one to consider how this can be explained for his region. Mr Kukacka! I know you are already in a pre-election campaign with your solidarity with the head of state Weingartner, so I also understand in a sense the restraint you practice there. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: It's not true!]] But we must not make it too easy. It's more than a country election, dear colleague Kukacka. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: This is a wormhead drop for Tyrol!]] This is about European transport policy, and it is also about Austrian transport policy. We must not, however, get under the wheels. That's right! We don't want to! It will therefore be necessary for us to develop a great deal of intelligence together, and see how we are getting rid of the problem of the burden on businesses that are being burdened with a toll for their trucks from 12 tonnes on the lower valley. I'm sure: If we want to, we can solve this problem too, because there are many variants that are also accepted by the European Union and at the same time ensure that our jobs in this area can be maintained and increased in the future. If you sum this up – three goals, two of them are fully achieved, one is still open – then you could say in the football language: a hard-fought 2 : 1-success. And if we succeed in reaching the third goal, we can make a 3 : 0 later on. So that's certainly a good result that we can be happy with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e7760	Mr Magistrate has also been mentioned in the debate. Chief. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e7781	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to give my previous speaker, Mr Niederwieser, right, not because I am from the ranks of the liberal opposition, but because, as I believe, there has never been a minister – at least not in the 13 years that I belong to this Parliament – who has gone beyond three resolutions of the National Council, has gone beyond two government speeches and has been praised by parliamentarians for this contempt of Parliament. I say it stone and clear: In my view, from a democratic point of view, this behaviour means nothing more than that a Member – whether he or she is Dutch or Parnigoni – is further disassembly disassembling himself and thus simply reducing the importance of the Parliament, in which elected representatives of the people also perceive the interests of the population as a control body vis-à-vis the government. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! You have clearly and clearly documented today – at least those Members who were here at the speaker's desk – that it is more about making your unloved minister the wall and a success that none is to sell as such than to actually perceive the interests of the Austrian people and to implement your own resolutions prepared by you. [[Call the SPÖ: He's not unpopular!]] [[Abg. Koppler: He's not unpopular with us!]] Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, there is only the reverse, namely that either Their resolutions were not as serious as Mr Kukacka said, and what the transport policy of Red and Black should be here in this Parliament, or whether it is a question of making a minister the wall that does not make a serious policy, and of presenting to Parliament today documents which are not serious. [[A major contradiction with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dietachmayr: That's your opinion!]] Minister! I think you should at least speak briefly to your officials after this debate. For me, it is not clear how to send a graphic – and it is a graphic number two – to Parliament today, in which the cost of the Hanover – Milano route for the year 2005 is given at 176 kilometres detour over the burner with 116 460 S. Either it was simply a 100 000 s error, and no one has corrected it, or it's every meat, whether it's more than 100 000 s or around 100 000 s less. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In any case, I have to say: This graph from your home is in this form, Mr Minister, not a support for you, but rather an evidence of poverty for a serious preparation for a government discussion here in Parliament. This will continue seamlessly what you have always done: to ignore Parliament, to ignore its resolutions, to negotiate independently and to rely, in blind confidence, on the fact that the ÖVP cannot dare to represent the parliamentary position because it otherwise flies out of the government, and that your own group, at least the important parts of it, will make you the wall even if you ignore their own decisions and overcome them. As a parliamentarian, I cannot approve of such a way, and I therefore believe that the failure of Parliament's confidence in you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, is justified from the Parliament's point of view, in view of your position, simply and simply to ignore the majority of Parliament's decisions. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] However, I would like to finally write to Mr Parnigoni in the main book and say to you, Mr Minister: It does not use anything if the public regrets the lack of acceptance of the Austrian population for the railway, if, on the other hand, one negates the Carinthian government decision also to the Semmering Base Tunnel, to the Koralm Tunnel, to the new track Klagenfurt – Graz from 1995. For good reason and well thought out by all three Carinthian country day parties, this requires that environmental measures not only be planned, but also implemented in the run-up lines, and then begin to tackle the Semmering base tunnel. There are no other decisions from the country of Carinthia, and I think they have been made for good reason. In Switzerland, this path has also been taken: firstly, to make the railway accessible to the population and then to rely on the shift from road to rail with appropriate concepts and with EU funding. And then you have achieved what you wanted at the referendums: a reasonable transport policy! In Austria, it is different: In the forerunners and the follow-up lines of the Semmering Base Tunnel there is chaos. The corresponding solutions in the Styria with the node Leoben/Bruck at the Mur and St. Marein/St. Michael, you're not going on. 10 minutes travel time reduction! Nor is it about solving the problems of noise pollution in the Carinthian central areas, where tourism suffers from the noise development of the railway. One has a car quota on the south track, which is outdated and not attractive, and then marvels at people driving to the tourist centres in the south by car and not using the train. – All of this is home-made conceptual errors, Mr. Federal Minister, who is responsible for you, and we should not overlook that. Parliament has taken a clear stance – you have disregarded the clear attitude of Parliament. We liberals will therefore fail to trust you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e7865	The speech was made next to Mr. Dr. Lukasch. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e7886	Federal Minister! Mr President. High house! Mr Federal Minister, I believe that your statement in this House today is in fact not a sign of strength, but rather an expression of a bad conscience because of this outcome of the negotiations. It was also remarkable for me – Mr Niederwieser, and you should have seen it – that, although the Federal Minister spoke a lot about the population in Burgenland and in the East of Lower Austria, he did not mention the Tyrolean population with a word. And this is amazing, because in this agreement it was primarily about the Alpine transit and an improvement in this context. [[I should like to congratulate Mr Blünegger and Mr Blünegger.]] Federal Minister! They have again distributed such traffic diagrams, flow diagrams. [[The speaker holds documents in the direction of the Federal Minister Dr. Einm.]] I have been in this House for a long time – almost nine years – and I must say: Their predecessors – Minister of Strings and Minister of Climate – have also drawn such figures, but such figures no longer give any faith in Tyrol, absolutely nobody, not even your comrades in the country of Tyrol! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] With regard to the relocation of the transit, which suffers from Tyrol, I would like to ask you, Mr Niederwieser: Has it actually been implemented as agreed by the Federal Government? Is it known to you that Switzerland has been allowed to increase the starting price for transit at 110 ECU in 2000 to 200 ECU by 2007, while the Austrian transit toll is fixed? – That is why the agreement has set out the issue of inequality. Where there is equal treatment or no maltreatment of an EU member, namely Austria, in relation to a third country, I am unable to see. Second point: Dear colleague Niederweiser! Through the acquisition of the 40-tonne quotas by Switzerland, which could be increased compared to the starting positions set out by the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs, we could actually be pleased with Tyroleans. Only: The increase in quotas, my dear friends Ladies and gentlemen, it is only on paper that this is a purely paper, because the Road Cost Directive has not succeeded in establishing this adoption in any reliable way. And he who has been persecuting the news in those days – including in Tyrol – knows what administrative barriers can mean, for example, when passing through. Mr Kukacka has already said that, I would just like to make it even more clear: On the basis of the current agreement, Switzerland has the power to avoid letting these shifts become reality through waiting hours – an hour, two hours of border stays. And if she had actually taken it seriously, she could have let it be written down, but she didn't let it down because she signed a contract with fingers crossed behind her back. This is the position and reality! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Posch: (scrupulous, with fingers crossed in front of the chest) "Beelzebub" One!]] Third point: Federal Minister! Contrary to the position of the Council of Ministers, which has been stressed several times here, you have a stretching up to 1. July of next year, although you have accepted a Council of Ministers lecture which allows or makes possible the technical feasibility of such a stretching only until 2000 and also thereafter or probably later in a meaningful manner. So we will now face the fact – and I am only curious about how the EU Commission will see it – that we will have the first toll limit in Radfeld and Kundl and then the second toll limit in Schönberg. This is also a gross mistake for traffic policy, apart from the one for the economic location of Tyrol – which has also been granted by colleague Niederwieser – if, contrary to the other intentions of the Federal Government, you provide for a kilometre fee of 6 to 7 s, while the rest of the network of Austria is planned for 2 S. Federal Minister! The Tyroleans like a lot, but you have a very good and pronounced feeling against injustices. They do not understand why the Tyrolean motorway should be more expensive than the Lower Austrian, the Carinthian, the Upper Austrian and so on. And because of such injustice – I say this to you as a Social Democratic – there has already been a revolt in Tyrol: Michael Gaismair... [[Abg. May. Posch: Andreas Hofer!]] No, it was Michael Gaismair who was at the top. It was about justice in the land and against the arrogance and arbitrariness of the ruling princes. – This was particularly written to you as a social democrat in the main book.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e7970	Next word: Mrs Mag. Kammerlander. - Please. [[Deputies Mag. Kammerlander goes to the speaker's desk.]] Excuse me, it seems only now that you, Mr Federal Minister, are speaking. [[Abg. May. Kammerlander: (arrived at the speaker's desk) It won't go out anymore! This is really very "smart", Mr. Minister!]] I would like to apologize, but I can only see it on the screen that the Federal Minister has spoken. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e8019	Thank you, Mr President. High house! First of all, I should like to refer briefly to some of the comments which were not consistent with the quality which, for example, corresponds to Mr Lucisch. Deputies! Maybe to the little things first. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kammerlander.]] [[Call the SPÖ: The Minister can't do that!]] [[Abg. May. Kammerlander: Sure he could have given up!]] [[President Dr. Brauneder gives the bell sign.]] They have found that Switzerland has succeeded in concluding a contract with crossed fingers. . I think beyond the question that such accusations are not particularly appropriate to neighbouring countries with whom we are in a friendly relationship, which is also simply wrong in content. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] As part of the negotiations, Switzerland has already agreed in March – and this has now been confirmed – that no truck will be stopped at the Swiss border for more than 30 minutes. I am therefore telling you that this is the case. – I said that this is one of the small things. In the context of another question raised by several Members, which should be made clear to me, Mr Kukacka, in particular, said that I did not think in terms of certain figures and figures which the Federal Government has decided as a basis for negotiation. High house! One thing we should already take note of – that could be known after the few years that we are already members of the EU –: Compliance with the laws of the European Union is controlled by the Commission and not by the national governments. Unfortunately, that is what we knew when we joined. Mr Farnleitner knows the value that the Commission considers to be in accordance with the Road Costs Directive when it comes to the decorating of the Lower Inner. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lukesch.]] Mr Lukesch! You know that we have been brought before the European Court of Justice. There are now three variants for the Minister of Economic Affairs, following this conclusion: First: We're not doing anything. This takes account of the wishes of the Tyrolean countryside, which has unanimously decided that the structure of the toll must remain as it is at present. The day-night differentiation must remain, a high night moat and the differentiation after pollution classes must remain – for that we are also. So we can't do anything at all, then that's not going to happen at first, and in case we win the trial, it's not going to happen at all. However, if we do not win the trial, we must give it up and have a retreating position for the future regulation at ECU 84 – that is a "success", which we did not have in this form before. Furthermore, we carry the risk of compensation for damages to all those who have so far paid more than can be justified under EU law – if there is this difference. If I use the value that the Commission sees as justified, then it is 1.5 billion schilling of claims for damages, and the question arises whether this is a risk for which you or your colleague, Mr Farnleitner, want to stand straight. I think we should at least consider which way we're going. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Mr. Federal Minister! It must be in line with the Austrian federal constitution!]] There is, however, a second variant, Mr Lukesch: the possibility of a clear and recognised road cost-related solution, which is that there is nothing at all in the Lower Inntal, but to reduce the toll on the Brenner line so much that, in the Commission's view, it is in conformity with the road-costs directive. This is possible, but no one in Tyrol will want it, and I also think it is wrong. The third variant is a stretching. And in this context, you said that would cost up to 7 s. - That's nonsense! Excuse me, that's nonsense, and you could know that. [[Further call of the Abg. Dr. Lukesch.]] I said very clearly at yesterday's meeting of the main committee – and in this, if I remember correctly, you were present – that part of the road cost directive fixation, which is now given, is that Austria is granted the freedom not to remove road costs after road use on this route, but at the same time increases the daily fee – and that is what most people use – from 6 to 8 ECU. That is to say, we can at least deduct 110 s from the amount which the Commission considers appropriate. And if you start expecting, you'll never get to 6 to 7 p. I think we should really talk here about the concerns that the Tyroleans have and which are also my concerns, but we should be realistic and also speak quite honestly about them. I would expect that from the coalition partner. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, let me say something about the security clause, because several speakers have already claimed that we have left everything out of it: All those who have claimed this know better, because they have already heard it in the main committee. They say this today only once again so that it looks like this is an immense betrayal I've committed to Austria. The truth is that the Commission has made the clear statement that at least 200 000 trucks – "at least", not "at most"! – be relocated from Austria on the basis of this Convention. And I have already told you that the 1990 regulation dealing with road freight transport crises - it is Regulation 3916/90/EC - lays down very clearly in Article 4 the crisis mechanism to be applied if this objective is not met. This is the crisis mechanism, which is fixed, which is the crisis mechanism that can be applied. So Austria has not been betrayed, but it is working to ensure that measures can be taken first and that the protection of those concerned, in this case the Tyrolean population, is ensured. – I wanted to make that clear.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e8118	Thank you very much, Minister of State. The next is Mrs Mag. Mr Kammerlander. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e8142	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. It has already been mentioned that we have discussed this in the main committee. It's right: I said in the main committee - I can repeat it again - that I do not see any success in the outcome of the Brussels negotiations. And if there were any reason to strengthen my opinion, the debate in the main committee and also some of the speeches that have been made here today would have given him the opportunity. Why? – I would like to start with the following: Already in the main committee, the child pride has been in the foreground that Austria has achieved a result – more or less; almost no matter what, but one has achieved a result – although no one had actually expected anymore – no one else from the other countries – that one will come to a result this year. It is therefore not inaccurate to suspect that one wanted to achieve a result in order to have at least a clear, clear outcome in the Austrian Presidency's balance sheet, in order to be able to say: On this issue, we have concluded the negotiations. But this is just a formal pretext, just a formal framework, and you overlook and disregard what the price for it was. The price of being able to show this result is not only that you have made small domestic money with it, but the price is that you have really finished the discussion on the cost-truth at European level. That's the point. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] For every extension – and I trust to say so – of the provisional state would at least have brought it with it that in Europe the cost-truth factor should have been further discussed, that one should have broken the head over it. So you are in the situation that you are trying to sell an existing system, which, in terms of costs, only takes account of the purely infrastructure costs, as something that goes beyond what you have had so far. [[Abg. DDr. Niederweiser: In fixing the height of the truck toll you have to talk about it again! This is next year!]] The external costs are not taken into account, there is no consideration of the environmental and social consequences, so this is not a cost-truth! And that actually goes exactly contrary to what the Federal Minister himself has done. Because exactly when it comes to moving traffic to the rails, you would have to fight for cost truth, otherwise the rail will never have a chance in competition with the road! Not! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But the opposite is true. In order for you to force Switzerland into your knees, you have only achieved that the truck traffic in Europe has become more attractive again. It has become more attractive because new routes through Switzerland are opened. It has become more attractive because this route is shorter than the previous route. It has become more attractive because this route is cheaper – that was one of your conditions in the negotiations. [[Abg. DDr. Declare: You have not read the agreement! You can't have read what it matters, otherwise you couldn't claim that!]] They have achieved that truck transport in Europe has become more attractive. They have achieved that Switzerland was forced into the knees – at a very high price. [[Abg. DDr. Deweiser: Do you think Switzerland is building two tunnels to leave them empty?- Oh, my God!]] It is, of course, more than just an Austrian solution, it is a solution of the Alpine countries. It is about a total ecological, total transport policy solution. And you sold them! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] They sold them very cheaply, and that hurts all the more. You have also sold them cheaply because, in this respect, your objections do not agree, Federal Minister, with the expiry of the transit agreement, with the expiry of the ecopoints system something is due to us, which we still cannot judge, even with regard to the enlargement of the European Union. They must bear in mind that the real traffic burden in the east of Austria is a multiple one. The fact that we are talking about Tyrol because there are special geographical conditions and a particularly sensitive ecological area is clear, but on the other hand we also have a region in Austria, in Europe that is affected by a lot. With the expiry of the ecopoint system, one is tearing up a wound right there, and this is what you are trying to do now by referring to regulations that in no way represent a replacement for what we have had with the ceiling and the security regulations. They justify the whole thing by saying, that is, I come to the conclusion that you are saying: We now have the case before the European Court of Justice. – This may be the only really positive outcome of your negotiation if we do not take into account that we could have had that before, that there was the offer from Brussels that this action would be dropped if we were prepared to stretch the toll line if we were willing to agree that the toll line goes from Kufstein to Brenner. We could have done this earlier if we had agreed. This means that you could have avoided this action in Brussels very well and you could have continued to negotiate the truth of costs within Europe. You could have continued to negotiate an actual alternative you don't have now. They have actually only taken up an old offer from Brussels and are now trying to sell it to the Austrians, the Tyroleans and the Tyroleans as a success, which is simply not true. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Finally, I would like to return to the alternative rail: As long as you do not achieve that the rail is a truly powerful, customer-oriented, competitive alternative that will set their costs according to the 'polluter pays' principle, as long as all of your beautiful graphics make-up and will not become reality. By the way: The 200 000 are just the increase in the last two years, and you are now trying to sell us this as a way of getting rid of traffic, which is so simply not true. [[Abg. DDr. Niederweiser: Since 1992! Six years!]] They take far too few, far too seeful, far too few determined steps as to the railway. To date, there is still a lack of the framework concept that would be necessary for the liberalisation of the railway. We are in favour of the creation of competition in the rail sector – we see that this is not the way forward – under conditions which the employees take into account, the transport policy solutions on the rails give absolute priority, which the customer orientation considers to be more necessary. We need to discuss these conditions. The Semmering Base Tunnel is just an example of the fact that the Federal Government does not comply with its own decisions and that it is measured by two measures when it comes to road construction projects and railway projects. I would like to see the strict criteria – the rightly strict criteria – applied to road construction projects as well, if not even more stringently, until the actual cost of contaminants is met! Then perhaps there could really be a shift in traffic.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e8250	Mr Seidinger has also been reported on the floor. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. It is then also at the same time at 3 p.m. and I have to interrupt you anyway. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e8272	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I can almost agree with what Mrs Kammerlander said at the end. For moving traffic from the road to the rail – under certain conditions – is our consent. And I believe that the EU Council of Ministers, which has been involved in the transit agreement and with Tyrol, can be groundbreaking. In these few minutes, let me focus on just a few facets of today's debate and put the Semmering Base Tunnel in the foreground. Some time ago we received the Court of Auditors' special report. President Fiedler has just asked for a construction stop and other things. I felt that this was a presumptuous thing, because the Court of Auditors had never been wrong. For example, he fought against Director General Talirz in court for nine years, and after these nine years, Director General Talirz was acquitted in all the points he had been accused of by the Court of Auditors. I'm thinking about the Plabusch Tunnel in Graz. 15 years ago, the Court of Auditors lamented that one would always cross a mountain and never follow the length of the road and that traffic traffic would not be right. Now we are so far at the Plabusch Tunnel that one must necessarily build a second tube. I do not want to repeat the data on the Semmering tunnel now, they are known, but only bring a few points. What about the water? – By the railway tunnel one pretends to be the biggest disaster, but by the road tunnel one does not talk about it. And apparently you don't know that an additional water break of 440 liters per second has taken place during the stoll through the snow valley for the Vienna high-sourced water pipeline. They have been very welcome. I could imagine that this could also be the case if the railway tunnel were to do so. It's got an expert commission. And in connection with this committee of experts, there has been fierce controversy in the Styrian country, because an expert, Professor Riessberger, TU Graz, was sent against the will of the Styrian state government and he apparently finally agreed to a solution in which the Styria and, of course, Carinthia would have been bypassed. There the question was raised: What alternatives do we have to the Semmering Base Tunnel? – The South-East spag has been immediately discarded. With the Aspang train, everyone who thinks that they can be expanded within a short period of time should drive once. The Hungarian flat track I first meant by the bypass, should it be the goal? Should the objective of Austrian transport policy be to bypass economic areas? I think that's probably the last thing you could imagine there. For the much-priced but equally controversial Pendolino: Switzerland has returned to the mountain ranges because one has seen that it is not possible to drive at low speed, because people do not stand by because they get bad and the like. He's just an impotent tool. Interestingly, the chairman of this committee of experts is a Swiss Professor Brändli, who says that the tunnel should be built immediately and that there are no alternatives to it. – So, please, what are we waiting for? [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] The Styrian Landtag took place on 28 March. ==References====External links==* Official website There have been different opinions, but it is interesting that everyone has finally agreed, including the friends of the Green Group. The brother of Wabl, the Martin, and the club wife Zitz, also – Mr Barmüller is not inside – Brno, by Mrs Bleckmann and the current Vice-President of the Landtag, Vesko, they all agreed. Of those of the ÖVP and of the SPÖ I do not need to emphasize that, I think, you will know that anyway. But I ask the question: How do some in a federal country behave behind Semmering and like in one before Semmering? I don't see colleagues Schöggl either. It would be very interesting for me to see how he behaves in this matter. How do we get out of this mess again? – A proposal is to create, at the federal legal level, an opportunity to bring the whole thing back into politics in order not to leave it to courts and the experts alone. It should be said that regionally significant construction projects, which are still in place on the Trans-European Network as such, have priority over small - I would say so - regionally conditional conditions. I do not think I need to say anything more about what the Swiss have recently expressed in a referendum. Austria could take an example of this.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e8343	Ladies and gentlemen! As already announced, I am now interrupting the debate on item 2 of the agenda, as we must start a few short debates at 3 p.m. Short debate on the reply to the question 4554/AB
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e8364	We first come to a brief debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs 4554/AB. This answer to the question has been distributed in the hall, so a reading is not necessary. We'll start with the debate. I would like to remind you once again of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure on speaking time: The first speaker has 10 minutes for the reason, all others have 5 minutes speaking time. Comments from members of the Federal Government or State Secretary shall not exceed the duration of 10 minutes. I am now the first speaker to give Mr Mag. Johann Ewald Stadler's word. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have a speaking time of 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e8395	Mr President. High house! Mrs State Secretary, you can imagine why we want to discuss this question reply from your Minister today. [[Secretary of State Dr. Ferrero-Waldner speaks to a member of the government bank.]] – Ms State Secretary! I'd like to interrupt my speech until you finish your consultations. In question 2 you are asked by the questioners Hlavac and comrades, how you want to ensure that supplies of relief goods – there were also appropriate indications of what was happening to Sudan at the time – in particular food and medicine transports, actually benefit the hungry in Sudan, i.e. that what the Ministry is providing additional services for charitative organizations is actually coming to the aid seekers. You know that a case has occurred in your own party, after which such an organization, which has also been supported by your ministry, has also carried out projects in Africa, has forced appropriate aid projects which have been funded by your ministry. At any rate, yesterday as a press release, your clubman Dr. Khol had it distributed at the Presidential Conference in order to justify that your vice chancellor today would not be comfortable to explain to the House how it really was, what is to be read in the newspapers. For there is a massive uncertainty among the donors of this country – and the Austrians are among the largest and most donate Europeans – after what happened to donations in your party, Mrs. State Secretary! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] So he was not willing to make a statement before the House. You have the somewhat unpleasant task today... [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: You confuse this with the Rostingl!]] On the I've just been waiting for the call! Mrs Bauer, I will say something to you once: A few months ago, your speakers all met together. Their speech tools were quite wide open when it came to Mr Rosenstingl. Now you are required to exercise the same cleanliness in your party that we have given you! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: We have to force you to clean up!]] I told you at the time, Mrs Bauer, that you will be picked up faster than you believe. It's ready today! I told you, we're giving you moral standards that won't be able to skip you. [[The ironic hustle and bustle of the Abg. Tichy Schreiter.]] Mrs. Tichy-Schreder! I understand your desperate face, but you should be guided by other parties' moral standards today. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] Then Mr Habsburg will be unbearable in your party! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I hear that you already want to set up "Imperial Highness" for the European Parliament because you do not have any better candidates. But this is not the best candidate, ladies and gentlemen! You should look at how "Imperial Highness" has handled donations in the past! You know, this Mr Krones is well-known to us. At the time, he tried to use Mrs Rauch-Kallat to give you a list of Mr Habsburg's place of business. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eder.]] It was! I can prove that. So he offered himself and meant he'd like to have a listing place. And after he went home with it at the ÖVP, he got a listing place at the ÖVP. Otherwise, he probably wouldn't have gotten a list place. They thought that if the liberals have talks with him, he must be a good candidate – and immediately put him on the list. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! That's where you cheated on Mr. Habsburg. He has not only brought us in, but also you – if you want to take note of this! Because as innocent as he does, and as blue-eyed – just because he's blue-blooded – as he does, he's not, Mrs. Collaborine smoke-callat. He has created a climate in this country with the actions that have happened in his own environment, in an association he himself has belonged to, which prevents people from promoting really good charity projects. And I think that is a scandal, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] At this scandal, Mrs. Rauch-Kallat, you're sleeping. This is the problem of the Habsburg/Krones-Taurer case. That is the problem: it is not these amounts that are now refunded through trust accounts, but that it is uncertain to the donors of this country and thus has damaged the charitative organizations in that country! And then Mr Vice-Chancellor and Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs are not even ready to explain to the House what really was to calm the donors of this country. No, he goes to the dive station – as he is currently at diving station with all the problems in his party. In the ÖVP club we go down and over – Mr. Vice-Chancellor is not here! The Styrian ÖVP wants to split down – Mr. Vice-Chancellor is not here! The donors of this country are not insured – Mr. Vice-Chancellor is not here! [[Abg. Is this Sudan, Mr President?]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: on the matter!]] But I'm on the matter, Mr. Khol! If we do not impose this on you today as a discussion in the House, then you just want to go through it. [[Abg. Smoke-Kallat: Sudan!]] They don't care about the insurance of the donors for the poorest of the poor in this world. They are just about saving the mandate of Mr Habsburg, ladies and gentlemen. And I think that is incredible and inappropriate! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And then I'll look at this letter that he's been paid out of donations. – I don't know, Mrs. State Secretary, do you know this letter? - Ah, you don't know him. [[Secretary of State Dr. Ferrero-Waldner: No!]] He didn't send you a letter. Then I'll read you a few passages from that. As a qualified and committed Member, he offers himself "for our home in the European Parliament": "Without your cooperation and your support, it will not be possible to build a Europe that is advocating us, a Europe in which values that are based on a Christian foundation will become the standard again." And at the same time, we have this paid out of donations that were intended for the poor children in Africa! This is Mr Habsburg's awareness of the value! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eder.]] Mrs. State Secretary! What do you say? You promote this association, and now your party and your own minister go to diving station! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Then it will be advertised. Again: paid for money intended for starving children! It will then be further advertised: I – you have to fill out an allonge: Name, address – I am ready to participate in the activities for the European elections on 13 March. To cooperate on October 1996, and ask for appropriate constituency planning and contact. Bank connection: Schoeller Bank, bank account number. Ladies and gentlemen! That's how it works with you! And that with donations that are for the poorest of the poor! I think that's bad! And if someone who claims certain values does not have the will to withdraw, then it is up to your party to ensure that this resignation is actually taking place. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have said, in order to prevent people in this country, because there are such events, that we have distrust of charitative organisations, and that the two other opposition groups have contributed to this, that we demand an appropriate review in a Subcommittee of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, and today we have tabled a request for this. You will not come around clarifying the proceedings, Mrs. State Secretary. Just point this out to your vice chancellor! [[Interlocutory remark by Secretary of State Dr. Ferrero-Waldner.]] What you have delivered so far is a press release, which is so "hatted" that it is also grammatically wrong. I don't know. Has Are you recording this press release that your staff has let go of? Have you drawn them, or have you never seen them? [[Secretary of State Dr. Ferrero-Waldner: No, because I was on the plane!]] Ah, you were on the plane. You don't know what's going on under your name. That is also significant for dealing with this scandal, ladies and gentlemen. That's what it says – I'll read it to you once; You should take a look at your press secretary –: As the Secretary of State is expected to affect the area of private donations, according to the current information situation. – So, Mrs. State Secretary, you are being put on a level with the abuses in your party. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: Mr Mag. Stadler!]] [[Interlocutory remark by Secretary of State Dr. Ferrero-Waldner.]] I'm just going to show you how you're acting with this scandal! They do not comply with the rules of opposition to be applied in political life. They deal with a scandal in such a way that you just want to cover up to protect your people while the citizens outside are insecured in their donations. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: Always those who speak of propriety need it!]] Because you're talking about propriety, Mrs. Tichy-Schreder, I'd like to ask you: Talk about the topic of resistance! You're so rarely talking. You have an opportunity today. I'd be interested in what you would write to Mr. Stad, to Mr. Habsburg. [[Rejoicing and condolences with representatives of the ÖVP]] That would interest me once, Mrs. Tichy-Schreder! If you take your mouth full in connection with "resistence", then explain to me what "resistence" it is to take away children who are hungry in the world, money, so that someone who has a millionaire can finance his election campaign! Explain to me what this has to do with resistance! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You don't need to shake your head! Make sure you step back in your ranks, then we can go on talking about grace again! They have the moral obligation to make sure that the scandal is clarified without fail, so that people in our country have security again. Those who deal with donations, those who cash donations, must also ensure that they land what they are collected for, namely among the poorest of the poor! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] But, Mr Khol, don't get upset! You already have the next scandal to deal with. You're going to continue in the party. In Lower Austria, it turned out that the secretary of an ÖVP Landesrat is involved in the Riegerbank scandal. But where is the ÖVP? - She's going to the dive station. [[Abg. Smoke-callat: Rosenstingl, Gratzer!]] Mrs. Rauch-Kallat! I know that's the only word you've learned. They are generally considered to be one of the weakest Secretary-Generals ever given, one of the blacks behind. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rosemarie Bauer.]] Rehabilitation First of all, Mrs. Rauch-Kallat! Rehabilitating cases like Gabmann, rehabilitating cases like Habsburg! Then we can talk more about your party's resistance – not before! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! That's your moral responsibility! I urge this one today. It is not until then that you can make important calls again that you are not in touch at this time, Mrs Frauen Rauch-Kallat!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e8683	Mrs Ferrero-Waldner has now spoken. Mrs. State Secretary! We have the recommendation that even words from the government bank should not exceed 10 minutes in about. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e8712	High house! Mr President. First of all, I would like to say that, despite the request for a question to be put, the subject of the parliamentary question, namely the political and humanitarian situation in Sudan, was not the focus of your remarks. However, I welcome the fact that this issue is in place here, and I take the opportunity to speak briefly on this subject as well. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Less helplessness...!]] – I am by no means helpless. You asked the question: How can relief supplies actually benefit the poorest of the poor in South Sudan? I can tell you that. We have set up a number of initiatives during the Austrian Presidency. The first was for the first time a humanitarian troika mission led by the Austrian Presidency to these areas, which, of course, also raised the political question, i.e. had discussions with the SPLA in Kenya as well as discussions with the Government in Khartoum. What have we achieved? [[Unrest with the liberals.]] - I hope you listen to me. They also wanted me to listen to you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What have we achieved? That's what you wanted to know. We were able to achieve the first extension of the ceasefire until January, which is an essential condition for humanitarian aid and food aid supplies to come at all. Secondly, We have also tried to strengthen air transport, which for the time being was the only way to provide assistance. Thirdly, It is at a special meeting of the so-called IGAD Partner Forum members in Rome on 17 and 18. It was the first time that the SPLA and the government in Khartoum had succeeded in bringing the three parties to a table. And it was agreed to conclude technical agreements which also allowed supplies of aid in other ways, i.e. on the rail, on the boat and on the road, which has so far been impossible. I would like to say that this is a great progress, apart from the political development of the solution in Sudan. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In addition: I myself met Sudan's Foreign Minister during the General Assembly in New York and discussed with him other possibilities to move forward on the path of a political solution because... – Wait, I'm coming to the World Vision. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Super World Vision!]] I will also give you an answer. I'm not afraid of you. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] ==References====External links== A parliamentary request was sent to the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs in November. The Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs will, of course, answer this question within the business time limit. But if it is your wish, Mr President, I would also like to address those accusations addressed to the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. High house! We have been trying for three years – and I am working very much – to promote co-financing of private organisations. Why? – Because I am always in favour of promoting private donations in principle. And that, I think, should also be your right approach. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The regulation which I have been holding here and which has long been presented in Parliament means that we are granting a grant to own resources. If it is a priority country, then a grant of up to 75 percent is possible, it is a non-focus country, then one up to 35 percent. Usually, however, no more than 1 million schillings are shot per project and year. – This is the principle. The advice of the project promoters, the preparation of applications, the processing of project financing and the billing are provided by Austrian municipal credit company. The selection of the projects – please listen carefully! – is carried out by a six-member Commission in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Now the officials are to blame!]] A accompanying control is – listen! – in the priority countries also given by our regional offices. A total of 50 projects of general nature have been financed in this co-financing programme. As far as the projects of "World Vision" are concerned: There are two projects that we have co-financed, one in Zaire, one on food production. The contribution of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is 1 035 650 pp. So far, 930 650 S has been required, of which in documents as at 31. August 1998 – listen! - 408 876,86 pp. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: You are reading your press release!]] That wasn't enough for you. That's why you listen again! As the amount to be charged remain 521 773.14 S. Wait [[Abg. May. Stadler: Half a million are still missing!]] It's her, isn't it? [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Do you want to listen? Do you want an answer? [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: (in the direction of freedom) Listen once!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: I know your press release!]] Then you don't need me anyway. [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] Mozambique project: an agricultural and food security programme in the north of the province of Sofala. Mozambique is a priority country, where we have supported more, where the contribution of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been twice a million. That was 1997 and 1998. That's, please, 54.3 percent of the project amount. To date, 800 000 S have been charged for the proportion of BMA 574 126.42 S. That is, the amount to be charged: 225 873,58 p. In both cases, the funds were carried out through separate accounts. The billing is correct. The project in Mozambique was reviewed twice by our regional coordinator. "World Vision Austria" was immediately invited by us to deposit the amounts still to be charged in the amount of nearly 750 000 S into a trust account and provisionally stop all further payments and payment obligations. I expect the money to be transferred to this trust account next week. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: There has been more paid out than billed!]] That's always the way it is. First of all, you have to familiarise yourself with how development cooperation projects are running. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Would you like to hear another answer? – If possible, projects should be properly continued in the interests of the target groups as soon as a trusted successor organisation can be found. As far as the project in Mozambique is concerned, I must say that it is a very successful and well-running project. It would be a shame if we could not continue this. High house! The reform of the current development cooperation law is an issue to me, but also to Parliament, which we still want to achieve in this legislative period. From January on, I would like to look at this project in particular. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am still dealing with the EU Presidency. The question of private commitment, the question of the role of NGOs in the framework of state development cooperation are concerns which have long been discussed and which, of course, are particularly important to NGOs. Controlling the use of donations is a concern that has now received very special topicality. This will certainly be discussed in detail – and you can believe that – and we will examine whether and how to implement a kind of seal of quality, because I too am concerned that those funds which, according to the corresponding projects, are made available by the Ministry for Development Cooperation, are, of course, effectively and correctly charged. That was always my concern. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] According to the current information situation, I can tell you once again that abuses are likely to affect the area of private donations, since there is no seal of quality or similar in Austria. As far as public funds are concerned, I can, at any rate, at the moment – as the examinations are currently taking place – exclude the fact that amounts have gone further. We will review the project once again after completion of the examination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e8974	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Haider. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e8995	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! It is significant for this debate that Mrs Secretary-General Rauch-Kallat leaves her State Secretary in the rain for arguments and has been removed from the list of speakers, because she apparently has no argument on this issue, because she apparently does not want to deal with this question, which is, in fact, only a matter of concern to us. [[Abg. Rauch-Kallat: Come back!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: You can still report!]] [[Abg. Smoking callat: I can still report!]] She has been wiped out because, in reality, she does not want to burn her fingers in the Habsburg story, which is embarrassing enough for you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Complaints with the liberals]] This is a matter of concern. [[Abg. Smoking callat: I wanted you to run! Why did your Mr. Graf let himself be removed?]] – Mrs Secretary-General! They're still put on for a smile. The smile happens to us when you hear from the prosecutor's office that there are already 20 million schilling of detectable misconceptions. And we'll talk about it now. [[Abg. Smoking callat:... on the rose stingl also...!]] – We will also talk about this as well as about the case of Rosenstingl, but you do not have the willingness to do so. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is a matter of concern that goes far beyond the occasion. It is about the question – this has also been expressed in this question to be discussed here –: What really happens to all these aid transports and to these aid operations? It does not matter whether this is now the question of the transport of relief goods to Mozambique, or whether this is the question of East Aid, on which the Court of Auditors has passed an destructive judgment and which the Federal Government has for years refused to create appropriate legal bases in order to control it at all. The whole building mafia, the red building mafia, which has soaked down there, hangs with inside, and up to the hour there have been damage in billions of height. It is about the question of further assistance actions, whether in the case of "people's aid" or in other organisations. Malversations have always happened where the federal government or state governments have generously doubled donations and many kind people have donated their money in the hope that it will also come to the affected. Therefore, I believe that the debate on this question is justified in so far as we have to ask: What does the Federal Government think about in the future? How is it going to give us a report on whether the doubling actions it is doing are actually being checked and the money is also available where it is sent? – After all, the Austrians have a double right to experience this, because if they volunteer, the Federal Government does not double this amount by its own hand, but takes the money of taxpayers and thus again the donation Austrians. Then they also have a double right to put the cards on the table and say what really happens to this money. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Now I ask you something, Mrs State Secretary, also in connection with the situation at "World Vision". The thing isn't on the tapet just since today. You know as well as we do that the ÖVP in the General Secretariat has already been aware of this matter since spring, and someone from the General Secretariat, who is involved in this matter, has made an anonymous announcement, because he has a bad conscience, Mrs Secretary-General. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Look here!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Listen! Listen!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Not anonymous!]] [[Abg. Smoking Callat: Not anonymous!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Come on. Now you're out and explain that! Is it someone from your General Secretariat who's involved in this thing or not? [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] Explain this to us! We'll see if you've told the truth or not in a few weeks. [[Call to the ÖVP: How was that at the Rosenstingl?]] [[Abg. Koppler: He made it "successful"!]] Mrs. State Secretary! In 1996 the same "World Vision" organization and the same actors established a school for development aid in Bad Ischl in Upper Austria. The Bad Ischl Cross-Sister School, which was no longer run, was taken over by "World Vision". Those actors, who are now under serious suspicion, also told the public: This project is financed 100 percent by the country and the federal government – in brackets: by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. – To this day, however, there is no school; the project does not work. [[Interlocutory remark by Secretary of State Dr. Ferrero-Waldner.]] Now I'm asking: Is there this school, or is it not? Is there money from the public hand into the project or not? Has the Ministry of Foreign Affairs been involved or not? – These are all things that are already a bit strange, because if it is not the Foreign Ministry that has subsidized, then one must assume that the money, which was actually intended for development aid and for the children in the Third World, is going into a project where there is not even a school, but a huge object, namely a castle, has been purchased. [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] These are the things we want to clear up here! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We therefore ask you, Mrs State Secretary, to give us a little information about the following: Are there any other projects that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is involved in concerning this organization? In the future, we'll get to hear a lot more, or that's all you've done with this organization, and what else...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e9210	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e9225	... Promotions, ladies and gentlemen, there are still those in this...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e9271	Deputies! The 5 minutes have expired. Your speaking time is over. [[I should like to congratulate the liberals for the Abg, who left the speaker's desk. Dr. Haider.]] Mrs Gredler. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Similarly, 5 minutes of speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e9305	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to point out that the NGOs, which are now in doubt, are actually suffering very much from this situation. These non-governmental organizations are suffering very much because they work almost exclusively very effectively and very well and are now getting into an environment they themselves do not want just before Christmas, during the donor-intensive period. In fact, we should have another debate, namely: How can we support NGOs more and better so that they can work more effectively in places where they can bring help? I regret that the debate on a question is now taking place in order to discuss matters which are not the subject of parliamentary debate, namely the responsibility of the EIA to its own mandates. It is not the subject of a parliamentary debate if the EIA does not have a culture within it, how one has to behave, if one gets into doubt and if one is not a victim. For Mr. Habsburg is not a victim. I would like to point this out in detail. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] I would also like to say that Mr Habsburg would have the opportunity to show a political backbone by saying: I voluntarily renounce the exercise of my mandate and, at this time, send my salary to those organisations that stand and work for the children in the Third World. – This would be political if he could not already put his mandate back. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] Why didn't he choose this way? – That would have been voluntary. Then he had the "must" to say right in a breath: I am a victim and will, of course, run back for the EIA in the European Parliament. – This is probably a very "mighty" step. First of all, he should wash his vests in, and then we will continue to see if he is someone who can or cannot work for Austria in the European Parliament. With regard to the real subject matter of the debate: This written answer gives Mrs State Secretary the opportunity to address the following: You mentioned in the first answer the ECHO program, an important program you care for. You know exactly that there is a major dispute between the European Parliament and the European Commission because 500 million schillings have been misguided, or at least the suspicion that 500 million schillings have been lost from this programme. The problem is that there has been no support from governments, how to resolve the situation, how to resolve this abuse and how to get rid of the Commissioners involved. The European Parliament needs allies to do this. Mr Bösch alone, from the SP Group in the European Parliament, is not enough. In this case, it would have required a word from the Foreign Minister that it would have required a word from the Federal Chancellor in order to give the European Parliament a backing. It is not possible that an amount of 500 million schilling will remain as a question mark at the end of the budget. It is important to know which Commissioners are involved and which of their family members have received funds. It's not possible that nothing will happen. But the fear of having to abandon the whole Commission is too great to meet those who want to meet. So you keep silent and let it happen. This would be an issue that the Austrian Presidency would like to address, namely political correctness and the decommissioning of individual Commissioners, if they misuse their function. I would like to see progress being made at the Vienna Summit next week and that this problem is not simply ignored.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e9366	Mr Oellinger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Similarly, 5 minutes of speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e9396	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! It is very interesting, Mrs State Secretary, that you have nothing to say on the subject of "World Vision" but that there has been a proper billing of a certain part of the project. I have something else to say on this subject. "World Vision" has been known for years, not only in Austria, but internationally, as the donor organisation, which has been in the discussion over and over again due to excessive administrative costs and irregularities in billing. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Nobelsuiten!]] In 1993, there was a Court of Auditors report on East Aid, on Russia's aid, and this Court of Auditors report was anonymized, i.e. not recognizable, including "World Vision". In a programme designed for Russia's aid, "World Vision" for the Federal Chancellor's Office has carried out a project in which the Court of Auditors criticised the fact that there were obviously other things coming to the recipients under the title of "food deliveries". [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Weapons!]] That was 1992, Mrs. State Secretary. It is already striking that in 1996, as the new "World Vision" board member with Mrs Krones-Taurer, with Mr Krones, with a section head of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and with an employee from the Political Academy of the ÖVP – or the ÖVP Party; Apologies – has been established to start projects with "World Vision" again. None of the participants in the Federal Chancellery, who had already had these problems with "World Vision" in 1992, would have thought – as far as I can see – of those in the German Chancellor's Office, who had already had these problems with "World Vision" once again to entrust "World Vision" with a project. Because all accusations at international and national level against "World Vision" remain in space. Nowadays, there are modern media, they only need to click somewhere on the Internet "World Vision", then you will learn a lot about this association – not just because of its background. It is indeed significant what Mr Habsburg said about why he was offered into the board of directors. And your staff from the party was obviously only "introduced" into the board of directors. Of course, you're wondering: Why is Mr Habsburg being asked to enter a board of directors in which he does not even want to enter? Why is an ÖVP employee being asked to enter this board, although he obviously has no particular interest in it? Mr Habsburg has replied: There are still any accusations of sect, and if he can do something good with it, then of course he wants to clear these accusations. We already know that Mr Habsburg is blue-eyeed. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Say it!]] - He says. We know that he is blue-blooded, but either a proper portion of stupidity belongs to it, or it is quite clearly about it, Mrs Rauch-Kallat, that political rails are doing something for a club – obviously for a club, which, in addition to its not very good reputation at national and international level, has also been occupied by people in a certain relationship with the ÖVP. This has also been misused in order to reduce millions of people who have been invited to the Board of Directors to open up these rails to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Federal Chancellery and perhaps to some other places. This will show the questions of the next few months. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In addition to Mr Habsburg, who still has no difficulties, the ÖVP still has a problem, except that it is a victim. That's a terrible thing! [[New condolences with the greens.]] It is really immense that a human being like Mr. Habsburg, in a situation in which, in fact, millions of donations were actually used as a victim by an organization, by people close to him, is being used abusively. Ladies and gentlemen! The ÖVP still has a problem. You have to justify the fact that only people of the ÖVP are sitting in an association that is anyway not well slandered in the donations, in the aid organizations, and certainly has no development policy at all at all. In addition to disposing of the persons involved, this is about other interests. Why was this association protrusioned by the ÖVP at the opening of public funds? [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] This answer, Mrs. State Secretary, has remained your fault. They would actually owe it to the development organizations and also to the aid organizations, all of whom through this political connection, to explain it.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e9476	Mrs Rauch-Kallat has spoken. Similarly, 5 minutes of speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e9505	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I was almost pleasantly surprised today when Mr Klubobmann Haider spoke about the matter almost or directly. I would not have accepted this at all, especially because his deputy clubman did not speak about it at all and one did not have the impression that the request for Sudan was only scratching or interested in some way. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: I can't do that to the Secretary of State!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Now you get to the point, Mrs. Rauch-Kallat!]] [[Abg. Böhacker: What's the matter?]] It is a matter of ensuring that donations made from tax funds as well as from private donors for certain things also land where they belong and are used efficiently and effectively! [[Abg. Böhacker: Nice thing!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's easy!]] As a former long-term managing director of the Vienna "Social Aid Agency", I know how difficult it is to manage donations, and how important it is to deal with the private donations and only with taxpayers properly, to use them as efficiently and as efficiently as possible and to calculate them precisely. Because only that ensures that the donor or the donor then also has confidence in this organization. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: (keeping a document in height) A certain "efficiency" cannot be agreed with this: 200 000 S! Very "efficient"!]] In so far, ladies and gentlemen, what has now happened in the "World Vision" is very, very bad – especially for all other organisations that have been trying for decades to do good, necessary social and development work properly. Just now, before Christmas – which is absolutely right – it is a disaster for many organizations that the donations are breaking up. To this end, this abuse of a married couple or whoever it is will be determined by the judge or by the judge... [[Call the Freeman: From Habsburg!]] I should like to remind you that Karl Habsburg is not involved in the fact that these donations have been misused and have thus resulted in infinitely great damage, not only for "World Vision", but also for all other organizations. [[Abg. May. Stadler: (newly keeping a document in height) This letter has been paid by "World Vision"!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: I said that! That's not what you said!]] Right! [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Somehow it doesn't go with the ability to beat!]] But you are exploring, Mr Stadler, that many things have clearly gone wrong in this organization, and that it was Karl Habsburg, who, immediately after he had received knowledge of them, took the consequences and commissioned KPMG to carry out the necessary tests. So he took control of the law of action and said that everything was being revealed. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Half a year! Since spring, Mrs. Rauch-Kallat!]] But that just a party, dear Mr. Stadler, who has been intensively engaged in the last few months in the exercise of damage control with a... [[Abg. May. Stadler: We either excluded them or they put their mandate back!]] Yes, but it is quite a difference whether a Member is deceived by a friend or whether the secretary of your club is misusing money, that is, using taxpayers' money, and then disposing. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Did you exclude Mrs. Taurer?]] Especially from a party like your, dear Mr. Stadler, it is not necessary to present itself as a sauberman! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Did you exclude the Habsburg?]] You should deal with Mr Rosenstingl! You should deal with Mr Gratzer. [[Abg. May. Stadler: When do you exclude the Habsburg?]] And you should not forget, above all, that an essential qualitative difference exists between an abusive, an unlawful act, such as the Rosenstingl and Gratzer made by your party, and the trust that someone puts in another. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: The Taurer is up to the hour ÖVP member!]] You, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, have enough butter on your head! In your place, I wouldn't start saying something!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e9786	There is no more word message for this. The debate is closed. Short debate on deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e9807	There is now another brief debate on a deadline request, and Mrs Magistrate has it. Mr Kammerlander asked the Committee on Equal Opportunities to report on the motion for a resolution 146/A by Mr Mag. Mr Kammerlander and Mr comrades and Mr Mag. Kammerlander and comrades are up to 24 years old. ==References====External links== [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Meischberger is in the first instance condemned and still a member of the Liberals!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: But he did not steal the money of the children! But the Schwarzenberger knows no difference because he has been giving the farmers for years...!]] We are now carrying out the debate on this request, after which we shall vote on it. As far as the Rules of Procedure are concerned, I would like to refer to what I said at the beginning of the questioning. The same business rules apply. Mrs Mag. Kammerlander, you have a speech time of 10 minutes as you justify the request. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e9850	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. This is a request which we made in 1996 at the National Council, which was discussed in the Committee on Equal Opportunities a year later, in 1997, and which was also discussed at a subcommittee meeting. In order to remind you of this, it was a matter of concern, in view of the declarations and decisions of the Party Days, especially those of the major parties, to the very current issue, namely that of quotas for women, one of my opinion in the meantime quite general concern, which is clearly considered to be correct and legitimate throughout all parties. At the time, we have tabled a proposal which provides for a special incentive system, namely that about 10 per cent of party funding, club financing, but also the funds for party academies should be devoted to or committed to achieving a female quota. Concrete: If a quota of 50 percent is reached, about 10 percent of the party funding will be distributed. This would not mean an increase in party funding, but would be 10 percent of the already existing party funding in this area, as it were, intended to be. If this quota is not reached, there is an aliquota deduction of this 10 percent, within this 10 percent. At the time, about 10 per cent of the funds allocated to club support were allocated to women in order to facilitate women's entry into politics by allowing them to reconcile policies, occupations and probably budgets. In the field of political academies, these funds should be allocated to specific educational programmes on the political situation of women, for women-promoting measures. I must make these agreements happen before you once again, including the course of the matter, in order to make it clear to you why we see a sense of setting a time limit. There was an expert hearing in the committee in 1997. This event was very, very good and, I think, was also so perceived by everyone. There were excellent debates and, in principle, a general consensus on the need for something to happen, and that it should be a rigorous proposal to be applied here, so that we can have real success, even if women are successful. That, I can only say, was it already! I never heard or saw anything about our request after that! There were no further subcommittee meetings, no further committee meetings, no referrals to the Committee, and so on – despite several origins on our part! Now I read in the newspapers and hear in the news that there is a party decision by SPÖ to reach a rate of 40 percent. Now, with the election of Mrs Rauch-Kallat as Chairman of the ÖVP Women, I have a promise: 50 percent of women, of course, because we are not satisfied with 40 percent like SPÖ, we want 50 percent of women from 2003 at the latest. – Of course, I am happy when I hear and read this. I have to say that! I'm just wondering: How credible are you, in view of your previous decisions on previous party days, when you have decided on similar quotas but have never complied with them? [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Schaffenrath.]] Look If you look at the composition of the members of this House, look at the composition of the committees, see how the decisions come about, look at what happened to the women's people's desire in Parliament, look at what people, man or woman, have something to say or decide in different party bodies! I think it is high time to continue to debate and vote on our request, even during this legislative period. Because if you all have your party decisions and If you take your political promises seriously, it can only be that you will give this request your approval, as it only provides for a special incentive system, a special support for our common concern. But let me add the following: I think it is precisely now time to send such a signal for the quotaing of women and to create such a sanctioning or such an incentive system to quantify women, as it is not at present best with women's policy in Austria. I would just like to remind you that there has been no further treatment of women's policy concerns since women's desire and since the debate and decision-making on women's desire in March of this year, although some reports are in the house and are in the process of being treated. These are urgent reports on equal treatment issues in the public and private sectors, on the reduction of disadvantages and the report on the reduction of disadvantages. In my opinion, they would be an essential and important instrument to raise awareness of the importance of equal treatment issues in this House. It would be important to discuss this. Reports are an essential tool for constantly evaluating individual policy decisions and repeatedly questioning them. But it obviously does not succeed. I am subsuming, under the statement that this does not succeed, even in a good part, in the fact that we women in this House are not represented at least in a 50 percent share, but only under the 30 percent mark, and, above all, you, ladies and gentlemen in the major parties, obviously cannot put up with these concerns. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] For I cannot assume to all serious that it is not Their concern would be that equality issues in this House should be given a very special priority, not only in terms of treatment but also in terms of the way in which they are treated and the urgency of these matters. I can only appeal to you over and over again and tell you that if you take your promises, your party decisions and your election promises seriously, if you yourself as a Member take seriously the issues of equal treatment, which are women's policy issues, yet you must be concerned about considering, discussing and deciding instruments that allow more women to have access to policy, that you can actually realise your party decisions and that there is a truly representative representation of the population in this House. It is high time that only this requirement, namely that we represent a cross-section of the population, was fulfilled by introducing a quota. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Finally, let me just point out two things. If you agree to this deadline today, you do nothing but say: Yes, we want this proposal to be discussed during this legislative period and discussed in committee. They do not vote on the content today, but rather on the fact that we can work on this subject at all. Let us then take the time in the Committee to discuss this. We have already indicated in the discussions in the Subcommittee that we are prepared to discuss this, and not to stick to the letter of our request, to each proposal. Let us discuss what the right and necessary instruments could be to help the quota to break through, and how these could look. I repeat: Take advantage of this opportunity and agree to this deadline if you take your party decisions and election promises seriously! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e9940	Mrs Hlavac is now speaking. For them and for all the following speakers, a speaking time limit of 5 minutes shall apply. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e9961	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am somewhat surprised by this request for deadline. For, contrary to what Mr Kammerlander has just said, you have never responded to me with the demand for a subcommittee meeting. [[Abg. May. Kammerlander: No, it's not true!]] My group and I are at all times prepared – and I also assume the others – to resume the discussion on this matter. We can also sit down in the wake of this debate and make an appointment. As far as the reports which have been discussed are concerned, I would also like to point out that I have tried very well to find an appointment for the Committee in December. This has failed, as I have heard, because those dates that I have proposed have not been possible for other political groups, especially the Greens. That is why we will not hold discussions on these reports until January. But we already have a fixed date for that. There will be this debate and we will have the opportunity to discuss this problem, which is very important to all of us. As far as the two applications in the subcommittee are concerned, I would like to confirm that the hearing with the international experts has been very interesting. Mrs Vogel-Polsky from Belgium has reported on your experience and has also expressed the need to actively promote women, including in the political field. There is no doubt about this at all. They have addressed our quota system in the SPÖ. We take this seriously and implement it. It is not so easy, however, to introduce this also in the field of government. Mrs Vogel-Polsky, too, said in her report on the Belgian experience that there is a regulation there, i.e. a state quota scheme for the establishment of lists for national elections, but that there are no sanctions, because it is not so easy to make legally. However, I am interested in the fact that we are continuing to discuss this and also in the second request, which concerns, as it were, a karenz scheme for female parliamentarians who have a child. But there are also constitutional problems that need to be discussed. That is why I cannot imagine that we can achieve a result within this short period of time. I therefore propose that we should sit down and make a new appointment for the Subcommittee. Let's have a schedule. But we can't agree to a deadline now!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e9997	The next speaker is Mrs Rosemarie Bauer. 5 minutes of time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e10018	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! When the two requests made by Mrs Kammerlander - I refer to those requests in the subcommittee - they have, I admit, found my great interest in this and the discussion about it. These are interesting approaches that one should pursue and enforce in practice. That is why it was clear at the time that we were going to look at this subject more closely and deal with it in the subcommittee. Mrs Kammerlander! At the time, at the first reading, the expert from Belgium praised them, but today they did not say a word about it. I must tell you that the treatment in the Subcommittee - which is now my personal perception - was rather disappointing for me. I am also opposed to Mrs Hlavac. Although the subject matter has been widely discussed, I was already aware of it. Of course, implementation is the problem. For the expert has demonstrated the efforts to enforce a better quota for women, but I think that the problem of this implementation is far from elsewhere. I have been disappointed by this meeting of the Subcommittee. The complexity and complexity and, of course, the fact that the electoral systems are not comparable are the reason why the model cannot be changed too one. In addition, in their selection and pre-election system – and in the meantime there is also the personal electoral system – the parties have different own structures or their own rules to deal with. Mrs Kammerlander! I can easily tell you that in the respective parties – I can say it for me – we are trying to find out, on the basis of these structures and possibilities as well as the electoral systems, which system is particularly suitable and how we can find approaches to facilitate the entry into and the selection of women. It's really hard. For all of us would have liked to have personally elected ladies – and I must say that – well and firmly anchored in the individual constituencies. Therefore, the setting of a quota – you mentioned that Mrs. Maria Rauch-Kallat had said 50 percent, but she did not say until 2003. It is necessary to set intermediate stages. Our wish is a 30 percent quota. Only: I see how difficult it is to get started or to stay, even to your person. Because I have also read newspapers and learned that you should also be replaced by a man, also in the area of the electoral system. It is therefore really difficult to regulate these matters from the law, but I do not think that these applications are so urgent that we have to decide on a deadline today. I am still in favour of a referral, but not in detail, and not in relation to the implementation in the individual party. I mean, it can be a help – a system of preferences, a system of punishment – and we should really continue to discuss it, because, of course, there is pressure. However, it does not help us either internally or locally. I agree with you that if you think that women should not only be trained through educational institutions – in part they do not need it – but also if they adapt to modern needs, get support to present themselves accordingly in the election campaign in order to have greater opportunities. I cannot see the urgency of this request, but I am willing to continue to discuss it because this issue is really important to me. Perhaps, even if we do not have a comparison here internationally, we will eventually find a suitable model.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e10064	Mrs Haller has now come to speak. – Mrs Haller is not in the room, so her speech does not take place. I call Mrs Schaffenrath. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e10094	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Bauer! I have now listened with great interest to your statements on the quotas, to the target rate of the EIA and also to the need to take intermediate steps along the way. In Tyrol, country elections are soon taking place, and I believe that the ÖVP is running a single woman there in a electable place. In other words, you will not get that far with your educational offer, so that women can present themselves well in the election campaign, in Tyrol, because the women do not even push to the election campaign. I would ask you to say that to your new female spokesperson. The ÖVP in Tyrol has not even taken into account the objective of getting women into politics. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: There are still six more!]] [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Did you not hear the results of our constituency?]] Mr Lukesch! Look at your wife's share! You have one, Mr. Lukesch! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: (standing; showing the numbers with each finger) First of all, a woman, third, is in sixth place!]] And then you put in a direct electoral system where women have no chance from the outset. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: That's a nonsense you're saying!]] – Please sit down again, then stand up if you are committed to women, but not to give flatteries of yourself. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: In Salzburg, five women among the first 13 are in the country elections!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: We tripled the share of women! From one to three!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Liberals, of course, agree with the Greens' request for deadlines. We are concerned that the share of women in political parties is being debated. I really do not think it is fair when the chairman of the Women's Committee, Mr Hlavac, says: You could've approached me. I believe that it is also the duty of a chairman to bring any pending requests back to committee at the right time or to re-establish a subcommittee in the event of an unfinished matter. You can't do it that easy. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Hlavac: You could have said something anyway!]] Mrs Hlavac! We also know that the date for discussion of the Committee on Equal Opportunities is, in principle, dedicated to a completely different matter. We must first conclude this in the subcommittee and refer it back to the committee before we can go on at all. To the content itself: The Liberals, in any case, are in favour of the fact that women really have an aliquota share in all areas – whether that is public service, universities, the private sector, but all the other areas as well. In terms of content, however, we do not agree with this proposal, because we simply think it inappropriate to increase the proportion of women in Parliament. We also believe that this will also open the door to abuse, because, so to speak, the creation of a women's promotion plan is at the same time linked to the lubrication of funds. I also believe that this will also open the door and door to the installation of other quotas: a certain proportion of women, a certain proportion of older people, a certain proportion of young people, a certain proportion of disabled people. I do not think it is the task of the State to influence in any form how a political party has to put itself together. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] In any case, from a liberal point of view, we reject this, and I think that is also a question of democracy policy. I believe that it is the State's task to ensure that we have a diverse party landscape. For this purpose, the promotion of the parties is here. It is precisely the financial support of new and small parties that ensures that we have such a diverse party landscape. I think it must be left to the electorate of the electorate, which party they choose, with what purpose, in what composition. This allocation of the party funds, which takes place according to the size of the party, should be sufficient to ensure the diversity of parties, and it should not in any way affect any compositions or objectives. In all efforts of the Liberal Forum to support the promotion of women in any field, it is nevertheless not necessary to disregard from a liberal point of view fundamental elements of the democratic rule of law.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e10238	The last speaker in this debate is Mr Oellinger. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e10260	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! If there is no possibility – and this is obvious – of discussing this matter in a committee or subcommittee, I will at least use the opportunity here to discuss. Dear colleague Schaffenrath! I agree, of course, with many of your statements, but I do not agree with one argument, even if I understand the position of the Liberals in this regard: that it is a question of democracy. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: With most!]] [[Abg. Schaffenrath: Why?]] A liberal position may be that the state should stand out, but it is still not a question of democracy, and that is not the case, Mr Schaffenrath, because the state must interfere with and interfere with women's promotion plans wherever it is possible. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: Because it exerts a pressure on the composition!]] That's nothing else. But – and with that I am at the essential front of the wall, because there is a dialogue between us – I do not feel, Mrs Bauer, that a dialogue is possible between us. This is the problem that you are a woman's representative and here at the speaker's desk are actually arguing as if you had already forgotten the women. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: No!]] I have not participated in this debate in the Subcommittee, but I am informed and therefore I know that your expert in the Subcommittee has also found this proposal to be very good, as it was generally felt by ÖVP representatives to be very interesting and stimulating. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: Yes!]] [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: This is not the subject at all!]] However, you leave here today and forget this argument and with you as an argument only remains: A la longue we're going to reach 50 percent, somehow that's going to come. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: But this is our problem, not yours!]] That's what you said: A la longue will already be 50 percent! [[Abg. Schaffenrath: 1 of 18!]] I really think that is a perfid in this regard. [[Calls and calls between Rosemarie Bauer and Schaffenrath.]] This argument is perfid, because "à la longue" is translated in German: "at some point", "in time". – And that is not argumentable, my dear colleague Bauer! I would also like to say one word to the Socialist colleagues, but above all to the men in this House. – Dear men of the other factions! You don't need to fear death. It's okay! A quota can be produced within certain times and deadlines! It should not be done as you have done by the Socialist Group, that from a quota decision to the next one, while in practice there is not much change. In your opinion, if something should change, at least you should be willing to accept this request for a deadline. We do not vote on the proposal and, of course, we Greens are prepared to discuss better proposals with you, just as we do with the Liberals, but not with those with which "à la longue" is to be made this equality, these parities between men and women, but through which within time limits the composition here in this House changes in such a way that women are equally represented. And this appeal, gentlemen, goes to you! In this context, Mrs Bauer, I have a second perfidy in your argument. You referred to Mr Pollet-Kammerlander in person and said that she too had to leave a man. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: That's how it was!]] Mrs Bauer, you are clearly exploring that the Greens can produce a 50 % quota at any time on their electoral list. The fact that there should be men within this list, of course, is not an argument against us. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: It's none of my business! I just meant that Mrs Colleague will not be there anymore.]] There are also men, and sometimes women as successors can accept a man, but that does not mean that women, like you, should in principle refrain from these same rights and this same representation in Parliament. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: Don't bother me!]] That is the problem with your argument: that you have, in principle, given up the fight for these same rights to represent them before you have started them. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: You think you have the only right model!]] Unfortunately, you can't say that differently.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e10473	There is no more word message for this. The debate is closed. As I have already announced, we shall now proceed to the vote on the request for a deadline. I repeat this request: It is said to be the equal treatment committee for reporting on Parliament's motion for a resolution 146/A. Mr Kammerlander and Mr comrades and Mr Mag. Kammerlander and comrades are up to 24 years old. ==References====External links== Those who are in favour of this request may give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Short debate on deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e10512	A further brief debate also concerns a deadline request, namely a request from Mr Haigermoser and Mr Comrades, the Economic Committee for Reporting on Amendment No 367/A by Mr Haigermoser and Mr Comrades, a deadline up to 31. In 1999 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws We are now coming to the debate. The vote will take place at the end of this debate. As far as speaking times are concerned for Members of the Federal Government, I would like to refer to my introductory remarks on the question. I now give the floor to Mr Haigermoser. As the founder of this request, he has a speaking time of 10 minutes available. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e10539	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! This morning, on the occasion of the current hour, the contributions to the debate have clearly shown that, with our proposal for a deadline today, which provides for the prohibition of selling under the price of income, we are in a position to be correct, and Mrs Horngacher has today also blown a similar horn. Ladies and gentlemen! There are, of course, various schools of thought on these topics. One is that of the LIF, as it, among other things, repeatedly introduces Helmut Peter, who believes that in the economy everything should be done as everyone likes, and in fact absolute freedom should prevail. – This would, of course, break down many grown structures. We think that about the economy, about the economy, one should put the liberal thesis: Work for everyone only in healthy farms! And we want to subordinate ourselves to that. Ladies and gentlemen! On the chronology of our request for the Federal Law against Unfair Competition, Mr Helmut Peter. Address of the Government Parties: You have presented a government template, and then you have let the whole thing die shamefully, you have almost been afraid of your own courage. President Maderthaner has provided helpful services here, meaning: The story in the bottom drawer!, but at Sunday's speeches, the same thing as we have focused on it in our request, ladies and gentlemen. This shows once again how two-way action is being taken in the government parties, even if someone is as hard as colleague Horngacher, who today wavered with an advertising prospectus and meant that the pig meat would be so cheaply swallowed and the farmers would not be allowed. – Yes, Mrs Horngacher! If you want to change this, you agree to our deadline request today! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There you can show what matters, also to help your agriculture, which is in distress – that is not good for the economy as a whole – ladies and gentlemen. I think it is important to hear the emergency call, the emergency cry of the medium-sized economy in this Parliament. They all got the letters. One, for example, applies to the claim: "Stop selling under the price of income." That is important to quote, Mrs Horngacher, and I am aware that you have been trying to push our way in today's speeches. The proof of truth you have to begin with your ÖVP. In this letter it reads: "Fair competition is all right, and you have to do that, you want to be a businessman, too." – As far as I am concerned, Mr Peter, we are of the same opinion. – "What is happening in our industry, in the food industry, in recent times, has nothing more to do with fairness. It is no longer about the well-being of the customer, but only about brutal abuse of market power. The fact is: Prices, which are far below the reach, are going on and on the side of the large blocks of power in the food trade. They are used in the fight for market shares to additionally send out some tenths of the shares and supposedly to displace weaker competitors. These supposedly weaker ones also belong to us, the independent merchants." According to many facts that are still cited, this letter concludes as follows: "We therefore urge you to use your political power for a law against sales under the price of income." Ladies and gentlemen! These are not a pity, they are not people who call for the state, they are not people who call for subsidies, but they are hard-working professionals who train apprentices who in rural areas still provide local services, who are also afraid of their existence, but who, as has been said, also receive the village and city culture. To this end, there are 336 signatures of traders who address this emergency call to Parliament, who are seeking help, but who are experiencing a form of assistance that does not deserve the word "help". For what does the Federal Government do, what does the socialist coalition do? – Ladies and gentlemen! She is planning, Mr President Maderthaner, to turn 90 million Schilling into revenge a deficient bakery company in Vienna, 90 million Schilling as a subsidy to the fact that this plant then wants to deliver goods to a large customer under the price of the goods! I have the calculation documents about a product: Zopf, 450 grams. Mr. Peter, you, as one who also comes by in the kitchen from time to time, know what product I am addressing. This product has 11,45 S self-costs, the offer "Anker" to "Spar": net/net is 6.44 S! At 6.44 S the thing is offered, and this company is to be subsidized by the Federal Government with 90 million schilling! This cannot be economic policy for the small and medium-sized economy! That is the case, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We want all these problems until 31. The next year's January will be discussed because it has been in this House's drawer since 1996. Mrs. Tichy-Schreder has persistently refused, Mrs. Horngacher, to put things on the table, discuss them and take measures so that you don't have to step on the speaker's desk and wake up with your advertising pages and to the – oh so sad! – Farmers must lament. Finally, Mrs Colleague, do something that is helpful, and at least today you are voting in favour of it. Show courage, ladies and gentlemen! It is therefore also very important to address a few things that belong to the overall package. I mean, for example, the inappropriate antitrust law that exists in Austria; I was able to address it briefly today. Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council. On a request from me to the competent or participative Minister of Economic Affairs, what he intends to do with regard to the antitrust right, Farnleitner said on 23. In November 1998: However, I am aware of the economic importance of the antitrust law and I am therefore committed to a fundamental reform of the Austrian antitrust law in a material and institutional way. - Quote. What happens in practical implementation? – Mr Schwarzenberger! What are you doing for the farmers? What are you doing for the middle-sizers? What are you doing for your Greißler in St. Veit? - Nothing! You wash your hands in innocence, and in Vienna you spit great tones and are not willing to stand up for the people you promise at your Sunday speeches. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is a sad game you offer here with your black game. You're not willing to let your Sunday speeches follow suit. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwarzenberger.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A big event, a hearing has gone over the stage in Baden. It was also celebrated by Mr Farnleitner. The overall competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises has been mentioned. But a seminar participant has put the whole story to the fore – I take it from an issue of the "International Economy", a respected magazine – by saying: While we are talking about things here, small entrepreneurs are doing their accounting and filling out forms and statistics. He also said: The small and medium-sized enterprises want to be used not only with joint venture funding from Brussels, but also with better economic conditions. We are in charge of these conditions here in Parliament. Mr Puttinger! We have jointly decided on applications in the Chamber of Commerce. At least be so courageous and agree to this deadline today – you do not forgive yourself – so that we will be able to do so until 31. January 1999 can discuss things and perhaps come to other solutions too! Perhaps what you have written in the government paper is not good at all, but perhaps this also applies to what we have now submitted as our own request. Let's discuss how we can create a antitrust right that deserves that name. Ladies and gentlemen! It is important to create framework conditions that enable business to be focused, and also to focus sales below the income price as a small segment in the overall problem. We orient ourselves to Germany, where Rexrodt is still at the last moment in view of the ban on sales under the price of income, namely on 26. On August 1, 1998, a law was passed to the German Parliament. In January 1999 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. Again, I would like to say: It's a segment. Freedom of the economy can be found in the protection of the small ones – as much as possible – but also in the maintenance of structures that have so far secured jobs and apprenticeships, and above all that the culture of the village and the city remains such that tourism is also served. Ladies and gentlemen! That is why I am promoting approval and not party interests, as you sometimes do. Jump over that obstacle! I think the economy has earned it.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e10660	The next speaker was Mr Heindl. You now have a speaking time of 5 minutes, as do the following speakers. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e10681	Ladies and gentlemen! Helmut Haigermoser! There is no longer any need to discuss the fact that we are talking about a time limit. I don't know if you're aware of it. I share your opinion in many things, especially in the fact that something should have happened long ago. But you know the situation that has not yet been discussed. Unfortunately, we have been lying this draft for too long – in that I give you the right. The reason for this is that it is extremely difficult to find a constitutional system. You know that. I tried to do that. I could read this out now, but we are not discussing the matter ourselves now, but it is about the last state of play. [[Abg. Haigermoser: I know! We must, however, discuss this in committee.]] - I want to tell you the last stand. Why is it the 31st? - Yes? [[Abg. Haigermoser: We need to discuss this!]] – We can discuss! But we agree that there must be fair competition. We agree that it is not a matter of abuse of market positions. It is not until the morning that we discussed the problem of local services, something has to be done about this. You're a professional in this, that's your business. It is not only about selling under the price of income, but also about the problem of the sale of the season, about the problem of the rules of sale, which should be settled in one. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser]] You know that the Constitutional Court has abolished its current rules. You know, the government draft is identical to yours. Your design arrived two days later and is identical. We then dealt with the Constitutional Service again, and in our formulations – in your application the same ones are included – as regards the sale at the fair price as well as in the formulations relating to the sale of the season, serious concerns have been raised. Now I would like to tell you why the date at the end of January is by no means feasible. The Ministry of Justice is trying to find a new formulation according to the latest OGH decisions on antitrust law. It would then be possible to operate with the reverse of the burden of proof, and it would probably be possible – I am saying that is probably because we do not yet have it at the table – to achieve what we are trying to achieve, namely that, on the one hand, abuse will be impossible and, on the other hand, fair competition will be created. This formulation should also be kept. It does not make sense to make a law which is repealed three or six months later by the Constitutional Court and therefore does not hold. [[Abg. Haigermoser: I don't demand that!]] I therefore ask for a little patience until the draft of the Ministry of Justice concerning the antitrust law is here, and then we will see whether we will come to an arrangement in the area where we have a presentation in committee similar to that of the liberals. For this reason we do not see ourselves able to set a deadline of 31. I'm sorry to have voted in favour of it. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Eight years, Kurt!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e10762	Mr Magistrate has now been reported to speak. Steindl. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e10784	Mr President. High house! Mr Haigermoser! You know, I appreciate you and your rhetoric very much, but I've discovered a new quality in you today, that is to say, the writing down. [[Abg. Haigermoser: agree, then you're my friend!]] The proposal you have tabled is, in fact, word identical with our government proposal, which has been in the Committee since 1996. [[Abg. Haigermoser: I said that from the beginning!]] I know that we have postponed this problem. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Don't make any child care!]] I also do not think that we have not yet found a consensus within the government parties. It must also be said quite clearly that certain things are not wanted. We are, of course, in favour of the protection of small and medium-sized enterprises; this has also been emphasized by Mrs Horngacher today. [[Abg. May. Stadler: I believed you were the Trade Protection Association!]] We would have to be crazy if we did not push further in this direction. Especially in the south of Burgenland there are villages that do not even have a small close-up provider. There's nothing left. We're a little better off in the north. But if you are going to divide this problem or this request or, if you want, the government proposal, you will find two things which Mr Heindl has already addressed: This is the end of the season and special sales. There are, in fact, constitutional concerns in this regard. It seems that the fundamental right of freedom of employment is restricted, and one must, of course, discuss in this context whether one wants to have a restriction everywhere. – We have been discussing deregulation measures for two years, i.e. how to debureautize. [[Abg. Haigermoser: The statistics, for example!]] But I do not know whether a rule is needed in this case – that is my personal opinion. Now for the prohibition of sale at or below the income price: You know that the wording in § 3a of the Civil Service Act has been repealed with the knowledge of the Constitutional Court. Now there are considerations on our part in the direction of saying: Okay, if we consider § 35 antitrust law, we're trying to get a supplement to the crime stock, i.e. another crime, such as preventing competitors from selling under-costs, in order to allow for a review of criteria of a dominant position. In fact, it is a fact that many - that is the so-called branch effect - large businesses build up branches, get the money elsewhere and go down with the prices. Of course, there can be no small business. That's how we see it. Perhaps one could find a way to do this, not in the SME law, but in the antitrust law. In addition, we should look at how Germany... – No, Germany has since 1. In January 1999, such a law enters into force on 1 January 1999. In force. [[Abg. Haigermoser: That's it!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann: There is already!]] Maybe we should wait a little while and see how it develops there. I think that we should be in line with the EU – yes, yes! – take action and strive to align our laws accordingly. [[Abg. Haigermoser: § 20 in the German law!]] This request for a deadline will therefore not be accepted because the deadline is too short. However, Madam President-in-Office of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, we will certainly be dealing with this matter and will also submit proposals for solutions to the National Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e10915	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e10937	Mr President. High house! One thing is amazing again and again: The Constitutional Court took this decision in 1990. Mr Heindl! In principle, it does not matter to us if the antitrust law is to make a corresponding legal change, a system of fair competition, and then it should be done through antitrust law. But the fact is that everything comes into your drawer. There are only Sunday speeches by Mr Maderthaner, who has already mentioned Mr Haigermoser, who is world champion in this respect, as I mean. What's so beautiful? Stop selling under the price of income! Mr President, Maderthaner has already made several public statements on stoppages. The call for "stop of the flood of laws" was also made in 1996 in the Committee on Petitions by Mr Maderthaner. What happened to it? – One has a hearing to use the New German word so that it is actually public, and then the matter has been assigned to a committee and has been smearing in some drawer, in some pile. – This is so important to the economic operators, Mr President, that they do not implement anything and always raise demands, even though you, as government parties, should and should be able to implement the demands. Put your own demands into practice! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! They know that, more than ever, sales under the price of income have become an instrument of market adjustment, a means of disposing competition. This is an unfair competition that damages small traders, small businesses and medium-sized enterprises. These are certainly not able to participate in this war of prices. These cannot win this war, but they have the damage to bear when Great fights against Great, such as during the famous Curkerl War. This was about the Marchlandgurkerln – Billa versus Save, 4,90 S, 5,40 S or 5,50 S, Rev. 7 S. I am only telling you this because this case should be known to you. The small traders are affected by this, because these actions are very massive. The retailers are affected by this. This is a significant economic disadvantage, but it also threatens economic existence. That's one thing I mean, abuse of market power. We have already heard it, in the Federal Republic of Germany a corresponding arrangement with 1. In January 1999 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of It is the typical line of the ÖVP, the so-called economic party, to point out once again that there is nothing to do and wait for what happens to this law in the Federal Republic of Germany. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Steindl even referred to EU conformity. You're right, just to wait. Eight years of waiting – since the knowledge of 1990 – are obviously not enough for you. Ladies and gentlemen! The reasons are known. I have found that, more or less, everyone has the idea that something has to happen. Give this deadline request Your agreement, because then we will be able to discuss a fair regulation of this mean market economy instrument, which is currently in force, in the Committee and to draw up constitutional safeguards. I see no reason why you could only refuse your approval of this deadline request.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e10995	The last speaker in this debate is Mr Magistrate. Peter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e11016	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House. We Liberals will, of course, agree to the setting of deadlines, for the simple reason that it is a shame that a request made on 13 March was made. It was set up on 1 December 1996 until it was still not treated today. When he once, i.e., on 31 December. On the agenda of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, he was postponed on the basis of this statement or the statement of reasons. I think this is a disgrace and a wrong approach in Parliament. However, this does not prevent me from acting against the content of this request. The trade guard Haigermoser rides again. He is against the bulwark of structural change, assisted by Mr Hofmann, who speaks the word to the stop of the flood of law and at the same time calls for a new law that is incomprehensible. The price, ladies and gentlemen, always makes the market, and the calculation has the task of determining whether a company can work cost-effectively at a certain price on the market – yes or no. The price does not result from the calculation in a competitive economy, in a competition in which there are consistently more offers than demand. So let's get the fair price out of the head! There is Allah, the Righteous, but not the Righteous. Who should set the fair price? – The Minister of Economic Affairs or the Constitutional Court? Who should make the fair prices? Who then checks the calculations of the entrepreneurs? Who, then, says what a fair profit is, which is a fair provision, which is a just depreciation? - All of this is economic mumpitz. That's fucking nonsense, isn't it? [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] Dear friend Haigermoser! Even if you're driving against structural change, you won't stop it. You'll be under the wheels. The task of policy is to set a framework for the economy – clearly understandable, easy to implement, sustainablely controlled. If we want to help small businesses, we have to give them back what they need, their speed, their mobility, their creativity. Let us not constantly prevent small businesses from doing what consumers want! We were allowed to discuss this at the present hour. All three requirements on policy, clearly understandable rules, which are easily comprehensible and sustainablely controlled, will not meet Mr Haigermoser's legislative proposals. Nevertheless, I am in favour of discussing this because there are committees there – now I am just talking; I do not let you interrupt, you do not succeed; I am going to stop the right ear – in the end, to give businesses the opportunity to find solutions that can be better and more successful. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser]] [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Price and supply policy will continue to take place for the benefit of consumers on the market. Where the government is strongly dependent on where there is a need for action – you should ask, Haigermoser – is concerned with the question of antitrust law, the question of how it holds it with a antitrust law that only knows an association suit. Why not make a real reform of the antitrust system, in which every citizen, of course, can appeal to it, a cartel procedure if there are dominant positions in regional or national areas? But wanting to intervene in a free economy with open borders is price conductoric, calls from the deep Haigermoser’s past.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e11087	There is no more word message for this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a deadline, which was the subject of this debate. I repeat: It is the request that the Economic and Social Committee report on Mr Haigermoser's motion for a resolution (367/A) and Mr Comrades should be sent to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. In 1999 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, Those who are in favour of this request may give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. This request for a deadline is rejected. Short debate on deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e11126	We have come to deal with the last request for deadline today. The debate is now under discussion in a brief debate on the request of Dr Schmidt, the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on Dr Schmidt and Comrades' motion for a resolution 517/A, a deadline of up to 15. ==References====External links== The debate is now taking place and the request will then be voted on to the debate. I refer to my earlier instructions on the speaking times that apply in this debate. I give the floor to Mrs Heide Schmidt as an applicant for the reasons for her request. You have a speech time of 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e11156	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The Liberals have asked the Constitutional Committee to report on a request from the Liberals to amend the Federal Constitution as regards the responsibilities of the People's Procuratorate and the appointment of the Volksanwälte (Volksanwälte) until 15. December to set a deadline because – I assume, Dr. Krammer – on 16 December. This House, according to the agenda, will be concerned with selecting a popular lawyer, because Mrs Volksanwältin Messner divorces from office. I have to go ahead. Mrs. Dr. Krammer! If I can believe the reports in the newspapers, you'll get the majority here. – I say to my person: You will also receive my vote because I can imagine that you will do this job well. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on representatives of the SPÖ.]] I say quite openly: From my experience and from my assessment of your person, I think this is a very good proposal. – That’s not why it’s about, but it’s about basic principles. On the one hand, it is about how to order the lawyers in the future, and on the other hand – for me personally, these are the two most important points in our request – what responsibilities this public prosecutorship should have in future for its field of investigation. If you are to become an attorney, you will also feel the current deficit as the three prosecutors have already articulated it. It should be in the interest of this Parliament – for the public prosecutorship is indeed an audit body of Parliament, that is not some institution, but it is our institution – that the examination can take place anywhere where it is deemed necessary by the citizens – for it is about the right of complaint of the citizens of that country – or on the other hand, the lawyers of their own initiative for an examination. However, in 1977, when the public prosecutor's office was established, this right of examination was limited to the federal administration – and to the state administration when special responsibilities are explained. In the meantime, however, this Parliament has decided to disburse itself after another, thus reducing the level of competence in the field of competence. That means: All that once fell into the examination has now been removed. There is also a similar phenomenon with the Court of Auditors, but in the case of the Court of Auditors we have looked after it. On the other hand, this House has remained inactive with regard to the public prosecutor's office. [[Abg. Arbitrators: For this the countries usually do not have their own!]] – This does not have any relevance at all, because whether the countries have their own audit competence or declare the public prosecutors responsible is not the point! The point is, which areas can be examined at all. Many areas have today been excluded from this competence, whether they are post, train, ASFINAG, the Arsenal or the Economic Research Institute, although it would be essential that these companies can also be reviewed by a control body of Parliament. I wonder what is going on in your minds that you do not recognize the need for action here – in order to use this political word. We made a relevant request in July last year. We have brought it in to meet this maladministration – because I feel it is a mistake that we create a test body ourselves and then become more and more clumsy – by changing the system of competence. You have left this request. Nothing happened for a year. Then, when it came to achieving our willingness to adopt a Constitutional Committee, we said: We are only prepared if this request is also put on the agenda of the Constitutional Committee. You were ready to do that at first. But what did you do? . You have set up a subcommittee, but obviously not for the purpose that the matter can be discussed in greater detail, but obviously to get a decent drawer for it. I am convinced that you are not even concerned with this point at the outset, because perhaps at this point we can also make you consciously aware that we are making a change. I suspect that you were dealing with another point, which is also included in this request, namely the order procedure. That was my starting point as far as Mrs. Dr. Krammer is concerned. The order process also dates back to a time when there were only three parties in this House. That is why it was stated by the Federal Constitutional Act that the three parties most represented in the main committee have a right of proposal. In the meantime, however, there are not only three parties in this Parliament but five parties, and this is a control body in which, of course, the opposition has a special interest. Now this control body is only sent by the three strongest parties, and I do not assume that one wants to judge it; I have not, honestly speaking, given such experiences. But we know that it is not only about bringing in experience but also about making an instrument suitable for future times. None of you can know what it will look like here. There may then be a control body in which the three strongest parties may be able to judge! I wonder if this is in the sense of real control! I know that your understanding of control is a very limited one anyway. It is similar in other areas when it comes to developing Parliament's control rights or the way it is usual in other democracies, for example in the establishment of minority rights. You're against it already! And as you treat the existing control bodies, namely the control committees in Parliament, with your majority, is also known. But if you still want to send your own instruments in such a way that from the outset the smaller opposition – admittedly – has nothing to say at all, then I must call it an expression of political unculture! That is why we want to talk about it now, at a time when we cannot say: We don't want a law of cause! Because that's always the argument: Now the order is before us, we don't want to create a law of cause, we'll wait for the next time. – Now is the time, because only in 2001 will the next order process deal with us here. That is why we have now put forward this deadline request. It does not have to be done, but it is a matter of taking it up and arguing about it again in committee. I would also have liked to hear what Mrs Krammer is talking about now and whether she can already move into a situation in which she will then be with her function in which she will immediately feel what is really needed to catch up. I'd have been right! I don't think you're gonna forgive yourself if you put a signal by saying: Should be! Let's talk about it in good time. We agree with this request for a deadline. – This does not mean that you must agree to all the points contained in this request. But you give the signal that you are willing to make a change. I would ask you to give this signal here, not in the interests of the Greens or the Liberals who are currently excluded, but in the interests of the citizens. For the citizens also feel this institution as their instruments, and you should not deny this signal to the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e11204	Mr Ing. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European Wait, wait, wait, You have a speaking time of 5 minutes available. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e11225	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Schmidt has just presented her request, which is covered by the public prosecutor's proposal. In essence, there are three substantive demands or wishes to upgrade the public prosecutor's office. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Schmidt.]] First: Control also for distributed companies. Secondly, Binding deadlines for Ministries. Thirdly, Order proposal for all political groups. Point one: We cannot accept this wish because it is precisely contrary to the principle of exclusion. The aim of the breakdown is to enable the distributed companies to operate freely and in accordance with market mechanisms, and therefore cannot be controlled by a public body whether these companies operate in a customer-friendly, unbureaucratic, correct and so forth. This will control the market, and if it does not work, the market will also impose sanctions. We believe that it would at least be counterproductive to put these free companies back under state control. – By the way, the cross-reference to the Court of Auditors is not acceptable, as it is a completely different audit task. Point two: Time limits for the Ministries. In principle, the SPÖ has no objection. We have no problem with that. However, experience has shown that only in a few exceptional cases the Ministries do not respond accordingly or at all. In addition, a period of time would not allow for sanctions. We therefore believe that a constitutional amendment would not be justified only on this point. Point three: Order proposal for all political groups. They are right that the legal situation should come from a time when only three parties were represented here in the House and, consequently, the rules apply that the three largest parties have the right to propose. Their wish is therefore that all five parties should have this right of proposal. . In changing times, in which the political landscape has become another, we have quite an understanding of the desire to discuss it. We have no problem with this, we find this proposal to be quite discussive. However, I would like to point out that, as a result of the current regulation, the opposition is already guaranteed in the public prosecutor's office, and I would warn you that the new regulation of this protection of opposition would no longer be given. That is why we believe that despite these democratic problems, the current regulation is better than the proposal you have made. The fact that in the event of any change, not simple majority will be able to enforce everything, but at least two-thirds of the majority will have to be taken care of. In any case, we will deal with these and other questions in the future. There is a willingness to debate at the SPÖ and a subcommittee has already been set up to discuss these issues. At present, the SPÖ considers that the current regulation is in order and that is why we cannot accept your request today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e11287	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Frieser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e11308	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We from the Austrian People's Party will apply for this deadline with a period of time until the 15. In December 1998, the Commission decided to reject the decision. [[Abg. May. Peter: Why is that?]] That surprises you, colleague Peter? [[Abg. May. Peter: I'm from the socks!]] I knew that, so I wanted to tell you in advance, so that you will not lose all the consistency in the subsequent vote and expect us to vote. On the three requests of Mrs. Dr. Schmidt I refer to my predecessor, Mr. Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. With regard to the extension of the field of activity, Mrs Dr Schmidt, I am partly of your opinion. I am also of the opinion that we should extend the scope of activity to those establishments which have, so to speak, a monopoly. On the other hand, I am of the opinion of Ing. The Court held that, in the case of disbursed holdings which are in a proper economic competitive relationship, an examination by the public prosecutor is no longer justified. [[Abg. Dr Schmidt: Where is the difference to the Court of Auditors?]] Mrs. Dr. Schmidt! As I said, There is a discrepancy between us and the coalition partner on this point, so I must comfort you in this connection to the next legislative period! With reference to the second point concerning the response by the Ministries, I believe that we do not have to make any further time-limits in this respect, as in principle the complaints of the public prosecutor are rare in reply by the Ministries. I think there is no need for action. In connection with the right to propose for lawyers, I honestly did not understand you, and I ask you to give me a statement on this matter: Do you think, with the right to propose all parties represented in Parliament, that the number of lawyers should correspond to the number of parties represented in Parliament? [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: You just need to look at our request, then you know!]] – I have read the request. It implies in itself that any party represented in Parliament would also have the right to send a popular lawyer. That of course can't find our consent, you will understand, Mrs. Schmidt! [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: You want to stay under yourself, I understand!]] There is no agreement on this either. Therefore, once again: We shall reject this request. The subcommittee is already in place, with a request in this respect. I believe that we will re-examine this at the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e11397	I call Mr Smolle. – Deputies! May I invite you to take the word – or not; as you want!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e11425	Gospod predsednik! Visoki Dom! High house! Mr President. With us in the back rows there was now a bit of a whirlwind, because we are negotiating a request that divides the Liberal Forum into two parts: A part wants to sign the application, the other part does not want to sign it. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] We are not afraid to admit that the discussions are very strong and very concrete. That's why I've been a little late. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: Please!]] But I am not saying what request this is about. So much fairness must be! Ladies and gentlemen! After this rather blatant introduction, a few serious words on our deadline request: I think he's entitled. Matter lies long enough in the house, and it would be necessary to do it. We consider these provisions from the perhaps or supposedly golden old age when only three parties were represented in this House, who have divided certain things here in the country, as obsolete provisions. I mean, that should be done! We have a similar problem – Mr President, forgive me for becoming so concrete! – also in connection with the President of the National Council. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Why would he forgive that?]] It would, of course, also be a very important gesture towards the opposition if there were also a president from the smaller parties of the opposition. It would in itself be normal for us to proceed differently on these points. The question is just how much one is willing to allow democracy here in the House. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! To this end, I would like to mention a very simple example: If there was a right of opposition to the Volksanwälte, then the opposition parties would have to think very intensively about who they are proposing; it should not just come out of their ranks to reach a wider consensus. This is the backlog of our right to propose: There should be no longer people's lawyers, but people's lawyers who have the broadest possible democratic consent here in the house! That's the background! This is a courageous attempt to democratize and concreteize the human proposals. With this in mind, you could really take a step towards our proposal! Ladies and gentlemen! We believe that, in particular, the responses from the authorities in question should be made more quickly. It should come to answers faster. That is a very important right! In this sense, I consider the deadline application to be justified and ask for your support! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e11483	The next speaker was Mr Oellinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e11504	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What we have experienced before was something like a paradoxical intervention to the square. It was quite interesting to hear that MP Kaipel defends the free market and the free companies against the directist intervention of Dr Schmidt, while MP Dr Schmidt called for political control over free companies. And that's what I'm at the point: Ladies and gentlemen! Do you really know that this is a free enterprise? In the field of distributed companies, not only for those who are monopoly-like, but also for the other parties – government parties – did they not make wise or less wise considerations before, who sends out, who controls for the parties in the bodies? Are not enough companies and companies of this kind in Austria always the subject of the political debate? And has there not always been problems because not always the interests of the company, but also the interests of the party or the parties that have and had the power in these establishments? If this is so, Mr Kaipel, then I must say that your intervention is just a lot more paradoxical. I am sorry to have to say that, on this issue of political control, you are obviously even being overfed by the ÖVP, which has at least agreed to discuss it when these companies become monopoly-like. However, the SPÖ says: No, we don't even talk about it! – This is the state of the discussion in the SPÖ? That must not be true! I've heard other things from your side. Mrs. Dr. Krammer! I really wish you luck! I am sure or I hope that, if you are going to be an attorney – and you will obviously be able to exercise a right of suggestion even without us – then from this panel, as you have unfortunately not done today, you will raise this very demand, which the lawyers have always made in recent years. I wish that. Mrs Krammer! I would also like you to slip out of this role that the party has given to me today's debate and say: I would also like to do so, not as a "Christ Kindly wish" for me, but because this requires the tasks of a serious public prosecutorship. – That’s just the way it is! If we fail to see how the People's Procuratorate has fewer and fewer areas of regulation, then – and this is the real problem – what we have experienced so many times: Democracy is not only in danger from above, because democratic parties do not, of their own initiative, refrain from taking advantage of the possibilities offered to them by the Constitution and making arrangements – it is also in danger from below. And that is the reason for this debate and for this request: Democracy is in danger from the bottom because people feel that politics is no longer taking itself seriously and that politicians are no longer taking themselves seriously, but are always saying: Unfortunately, we cannot regulate so much, any anonymous powers – the economy or whatever – are due to the fact that we have less and less to say. The reason for this is globalisation, internationalization and what else do I know? Ladies and gentlemen! In this case, however, it is not globalisation, which prevents policy from operating, but this House, which would have the opportunity to act in the area of distributed establishments and to demand control. That is why I am now turning more to the Socialist Group, because you should actually know better. Ladies and gentlemen! Also on the second proposal on the right of proposal...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e11542	Please put the final sentence, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e11563	On the right to propose, I can only say: A proposal does not yet mean ordering – you do not need to have this fear – but it is the prerequisite for democratic parties to be able to take part in this House at all.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e11593	No one is reporting on this. That is why the debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request to report to the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 517/A by Mrs Heide Schmidt on a deadline until 15. ==References====External links== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of this motion to give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e11630	I take the negotiations on the second. The item on the agenda on the statement by the Federal Minister for Science and Transport. The next speaker is Mrs Anneliese Klein. The speaking time is set to 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e11654	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! That I can speak to you today is a special concern to me, because my home community is on Semmering. Our mountain has no more water! Many springs are sealed! We've been dug out of the water! [[Calls.]] 2.6 million litres of best spring water must be pumped out of the probe daily. This precious asset, our drinking water, is wasted in this way and led into the stream. Even every small house builder knows when he wants to start building that he needs a permit, for otherwise a punishment threatens him, and the construction must be stopped. However, in the case of Semmering-Sondierstollen, the construction began without a permit and wasted many billions of tax money. Minister! At the Bundesbahn, at the Bundesforsten – in the case of the small lumber traps – and at the Postlers, the jobs grow and are rationalized. How many jobs could have been secured with the money now wasted! For the past six years, construction experts in Switzerland have been warning against the illusion that it will remain at 5 billion Schilling, since each tunnel project had exceeded the calculated costs enormously. In addition, high-performance trains AG has a very strange close relationship with the tops of the Austrian Bundesbahnen: The high-performance AG chief Brenner was the secretary of the then Minister Scholten and goes into and out on the upper floor of the Austrian Federal Railways. The Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Hochführungsschrecken AG, Helmut Hainitz, is also on the Board of Directors of the ÖBB. Even Minister of the Interior Schlögl, who was recently elected at the SPÖ party in Lower Austria, now believes that he can give up on the Semmering base tunnel. Mr Pröll has also realized that we were right to liberals who were against the project from the first hour on. Only you, Minister, and the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany are still wasting taxpayers' money and not taking care of our precious spring water. Now you too should have realized that the probe must be stopped immediately. Who Remembers To repair this damage? Will you personally be liable for that? For the reasons set out above, we ask you, Minister of State, to: Stop You immediately work on the probes so as not to waste more tax millions!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e11703	The next speaker is Mr Karlheinz Head. The clock is set to 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e11725	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Switzerland is the second most important trading partner of the Vorarlberg economy, but also the third most important of the entire Austrian economy. Federal Minister! Because of this specific situation, especially Vorarlberg's, which is in itself pleasing, the outcome of the negotiations with Switzerland poses a detailed problem that I would like to point out briefly. The enormous kilometre rates in the context of this performance-dependent heavy-duty tax, which is a multiple of the planned road pricing charges within Austria, and the over the transitional period from 1999 to 2005 quite sufficient charges for individual journeys, for driving licences for trucks with 40 tonnes, have a very negative impact especially on the west of Austria. We are moving with Switzerland in bilateral traffic from east to west or from west to east, and with this traffic the objective of the agreement itself is not much to do. This heavy-duty heavy-duty tax is primarily used in Switzerland to finance the NEAT, in which, unfortunately, the splinter variant is not included or will not be, so that NEAT has a secondary meaning for us in Vorarlberg. We in Vorarlberg continue to depend – at least for foreseeable time – on road transport in bilateral traffic. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Nut trees.]] Mr Nußbaumer! I'm used to getting problems to the point. There is nothing to do with polemics and shakes in this context. I am, however, very excited about the Minister's reply, and I am convinced that it will certainly be of a material nature. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Nutbaumer: That sounds little convincing!]] Federal Minister! It is therefore from our point of view, from Vorarlberg's point of view, to address some demands to you. The 40 tonnes quotas for the years 2001 to 2005 are simply too limited. We must insist that appropriate quotas be agreed and achieved for the neighbouring countries. Second point: The rates for heavy-duty heavy-duty taxes must be adapted to the EU Road Costs Directive. In this form, as they are now, they do not move at the lower limits, but they are within the framework of the directive. Third point: The daily rate must necessarily be adjusted to those of Austria and Germany. Further: Not only Tyrol will be affected by this toll stretching from Brenner to Kufstein, but of course also the Vorarlberg economy, whose main market, if you look off the export markets, is in Vienna's region. That is to say, our transports – unfortunately the rail is still not particularly suitable for this – must also take this route from Innsbruck to Kufstein. . I am therefore immediately joining the introductory statement of colleagues Kukacka, which predicts rates of between 450 and 600 s. Even if you say now, we subtract 110 S from it, then still remain 5 to 6 S per kilometer, even if it's no longer 7 to 8 S. This is not acceptable to us, neither for the Tyroleans nor for the Vorarlberg economy, because it would be a huge distortion of competition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e11772	The next speaker is Mr Ing. Meschberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e11794	Mr President. High house! Federal Minister! If you listen to how you justify your negotiating results and how you represent it as the great solution to the transit agreement, then the following sound in your ears – who was already in Parliament in 1987 – knows what I mean: In 1987, Mr Streicher was sitting here at the same place and promised that in 2000 a 50% reduction in transit in Tyrol would be due to a wide range of measures. After that, Transport Minister Climate, now Federal Chancellor, who also promised us that, as a result of a wide range of negotiation results, the accession negotiations with Austria made it possible for the EU to finally achieve a transit burden in Tyrol. – In the end, everyone did nothing but sacrifice the life interests of the Tyrolean population to the EU market, but still had the forehead to be celebrated in Austria as a great hero and solver of transit problems. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You don't need to explain what the truth looks like. Instead of the 50 percent promised at the time, in 1987 – as far as the traffic load is concerned – we now have 200 percent traffic load. This is a quadruple failure of the promises made at that time. Now the next Transport Minister, the hero of all advertising broadcasts in Austria, the Robin Hood of rail freighters, the savior of transit-damaged people in Tyrol, and promises to reduce again, promises measures to reduce the traffic burden. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: What kind of advertising does he have?]] For security reasons, however, it extends the time horizon for the non-implementation of its promises by 2005 and goes far beyond its political expiry date with this time horizon. He offers Austria again on the EU altar, but like his predecessors, as the great hero, he can be celebrated as the political hero in Austria. One, the great hero, one, the breakthrough has succeeded, at last he has broken through the gordic nodes of transit problems. Mr Verkehrsminister! I can tell you clearly from this point of view: The Tyroleans and the West Austrians do not give up your breakthroughs of this kind. I would ask you to take note of this. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Verkehrsminister! It is a fact that you have acted with this solution contrary to the mandate of your own federal government, which has given you to accept no more than 150 S for the toll stretching and for the Innsbruck – Kufstein route, you have made 460 S toll out of it. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Where's that?]] They act against the unanimous decision of the Tyrolean Landtag. In the end, they are also acting against the mandate of this Parliament, contrary to the resolution of July, by Mr Lukesch and Mr Niederweisser, who have given you a completely different measure for the implementation of the parliamentary decision. Then you stand up when you are caught up in acting against all these decisions and against these rules, saying: Well, it is true that we should take note in this House of the fact that we can decide what we want, because in Brussels any other majority we cannot influence will already decide. Minister! If you do not have the courage to at least prevent such a decision against the will of all, against the will of the local authorities, and, on the contrary, to be celebrated as a hero, we ask you to do so differently in the future. The fact is: At the Euro-Vignette you celebrate as a great success that it is now 25 percent cheaper than the former English proposal. Especially the category "old instincts" will not be very deterred by this measure. They accept an inner Austrian toll of 450 s per ride through the Unterinntal. To the Switzerland Agreement we must say: Even in the most favourable case, only half of the journeys that have given us the socialist transport policy of the past are diverted. Moreover, you have refrained from effective safeguards to comply with these minimum measures. I should therefore like to make the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e11873	The motion for a resolution, which has been referred to here, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] [[Call of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] I call Mr Brix. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e11909	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! First of all, I would like to clear up a misinformation given by my predecessor in order to help the truth in this House to break through. Mrs Klein's statement that there is no water left at Semmering once prevented snow cannons from spraying snow from Semmering for weeks to snow the slopes. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haider.]] If there was no water there, you couldn't have been snowing the slopes for weeks. There's plenty of water wasted. – So many times to that, there is no water. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: This is all kinds of things!]] If you go to the speaker's desk, you should not continue playing with the fears of the population. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: That's snow! That's no more water!]] – Afterwards it is snow, dear colleague Haider! You know exactly how snow is made. You know exactly how much water you can get there at any time. You know this much better than anyone else because, as far as I know, you were very much in favour of it as the head of the state of Carinthia – you may also be – and always advocated that the Semmering be tunneled quickly so that you can quickly get to your Carinthian home. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: I'm excited about snow guns!]] But now lie down. They put the child on the side and even say that there is too little water there. That's why you're doing this because you might be able to catch some voice in Carinthia. Those who run away from you at "Senza Confini" now want to bring you back at Semmering. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] The fact is that there is enough water. The fact is, however, something else, ladies and gentlemen: Today we are talking about the Court of Auditors' report, but this Court of Auditors report has not been discussed at all in the committee responsible. I think this is very dangerous. The report has not yet been discussed. The experts who were responsible could not yet be invited to do so and could not be questioned, nor could they yet comment on it. [[Abg. Parnigoni: How right he is!]] In other words, they could not yet be asked what they are actually saying about the accusations raised by the Court of Auditors. The President-in-Office of the Council also believes that he can decide on this alone. In his press conference today, he says once again that he should set up a construction stop for the purpose of auditing the economy and that the question of financing should finally be clarified. But he also says in his press conference: From the Court's point of view, an extension of the sifting line to the high performance line would never have been a real, meaningful alternative. What does that mean? – He says on the one hand that it should be stopped so that it probably becomes even more expensive. Why did it get so expensive? – Because Mr. Landeshuptmann Pröll forces the Federal Railways and their planners to interrupt and replan on a daily basis. That makes it more expensive! – He is one of the "co-debts" as you can hear from the Styria very clearly. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Pröll is to blame!]] It also tells his party friend there that the matter in Lower Austria is seen differently than in Styria. The second is that Mr Pröll says on the other hand that there is no alternative to this route at all. Federal Minister! Mr Meischberger said that the Tyroleans are not grateful, but we in the East already thank you for that. You have really achieved great success in Brussels. You managed to get a lot of traffic away from the street. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The success of the negotiations by Minister One thing I would like to make clear with a few figures from the eastern area. Do you know that every day on the A4, which passes my district, over 54,000 vehicles drive in the area of Schwechat? [[Abg. Scheibner: Do something about it at last!]] Do you know that 180,000 vehicles drive on the southeast tangent every day? Do you know that 130 000 vehicles drive at the Wiener Gürtel and in the area of South Tyroler Platz? . We are glad that you announced to us today that there is now a railway with lorry to Bratislava, that part of the traffic to the east can be moved to the rail. That's what we need to make ourselves strong. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: This is the wrong transport policy of the Socialists!]] A second one: Federal Minister One has brought this success. Where is the Minister of Economic Affairs who finally introduces a pickle for the truck? [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] Why are we waiting so long for the road pricing to come? Why haven't we been making a picker for the truck long ago, so that these too have to pay on the street? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Minister for Economic Affairs! They're required. You can now imitate the Federal Minister. As far as Semmering is concerned, I can only say: Let us then talk about the Court of Auditors' report in committee. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Yes!]] Let us wait for what the experts and the experts have to say about this report. We Socialists will not be intimidated by fear propaganda. Vienna, Lower Austria, Styria and other federal states cannot be divided. We want the Styria and Carinthia to be able to participate in the economic success of Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e12099	The next speaker is Mr Günther Platter. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e12135	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am actually of the same opinion as my colleague, Mr Kukacka, that this transit contract must be considered differentiatedly. In my view, a reasonable approach is that Switzerland should now also be taken into account, that Switzerland should gradually open its roads to heavy traffic up to 40 tonnes and that Switzerland should also reduce its toll rates during the transitional periods. This is a way that undoubtedly goes in the right direction. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] This is the one side of the medal, ladies and gentlemen. The other side is absolutely unsatisfying from the point of view of Tyrol, and I think it is totally missing when one speaks of a "milestone" in the Austrian transit policy in this outcome of the negotiation. To be celebrated, Minister, is a clear affront against the Tyrolean population. An extension of the Brennermaut to the Unterinntal-Maut is a clear evil situation in Tyrol. This is a discrimination against the federal state of Tyrol, and it certainly cannot be allowed to happen. Minister! What happens when you negotiate the toll stretching on the Inntal motorway on the lower Inntal motorway? – There will be a huge evasive traffic to expect a huge truck toll on the federal road. Ladies and gentlemen! Who pays a kilometre price of 6 to 7 s? Who can afford that? – The consequence is that we have the truck traffic on the federal road that goes through inhabited territory in the middle of the country. I believe that the people will be quite grateful for this. I don't think it could be that way. This is by no means acceptable for the communities on the Inntal route, and I tell you, Minister, that will certainly not please the people. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The second point: Ladies and gentlemen! The extension of the Brennermaut to the Unterinntal motorway also means, of course, clear competitive disadvantages for the Tyrolean economy. By the way, the Tyrolean freight forwarder Hans Dieter Salcher called the toll stretching the Tyrolean "Kronen Zeitung" the stupidest thing ever invented by a minister. – This is not the former Minister of Finance, but Hans Dieter Salcher. It also fears that this will create costs of 250 million schilling annually for local local suppliers. – Of course, figures must be for the Tyrolean consumers. In Tyrol, we will not only have the dirt of transit traffic, but also have to expect higher costs, especially in the case of foodstuffs, not to mention the risk of work at all. All in all, Minister: This outcome of the negotiations is, from the Tyrolean point of view and, in my opinion, in Vienna, a palawatsch! Therefore, my specific question to you, because we do not know exactly what legal form this paper has: Is it still possible to renegotiate? If post-negotiation is possible, then of course the question of road pricing in Germany and Austria should be included in the negotiations and security clauses should be introduced. In addition, a modern transport policy does not lead to the construction of modern rail infrastructure, such as Brenner Base Tunnel. Minister! Finally, I ask you: In which areas is equivalent Their outcome of the negotiations was the ministerial presentation by the Federal Government in agreement with the country of Tyrol on 10 October. In March 1998, it was decided? – In our opinion, only very small areas remain, and therefore the country of Tyrol is opposed to this Brussels agreement. The Tyrolean economy is also opposed to them. The community of Tyrol is also opposed to them. In the end, the citizens will also vote against this measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e12205	The next speaker was Mr Antoni. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e12226	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen in the High House! I would like to join the group of speakers who today congratulate the Minister for Transport on his personal and political success, which he has achieved in the context of the further development of European transport policy. Federal Minister! You, together with the Ministers for Transport of the European Union, laid the foundation for a sustainable rethinking in European transport policy, a rethinking that reads as follows: For citizens and the environment. . I believe that the European Transport Council's decision on the priority of financing the development of rail infrastructure in relation to the road, the transfer of heavy road transport from road to rail and the introduction of a road-by-road road charge has enormous importance for cross-border transit. I believe that the Carinthian population welcomes this decision, especially because the Carinthian economy has unfortunately been a little backward in recent years. A reason for this is certainly the bad situation with regard to transport connections, both as regards the road, the completion of the motorway drive Klagenfurt and, of course, as far as the rail to, in and through Carinthia is concerned. I mean, an optimal transport connection between Carinthia and the almost completed northern Italian high-performance railway in the south on the one hand, on the other side of the speedy extension and modernisation of the entire south railway to reach the connection to Vienna and the increasingly open east, but also the immediate construction of the Semmering base tunnel are a command of the hour. They are, in particular, a command for those people of the hour who are currently living in this region. Ladies and gentlemen! To condemn incomprehensible and with all clarity is the disunity of the question of the Semmering Base Tunnel, both in the ranks of our coalition partner, the ÖVP, and within the Freedom Party. In the field of the ÖVP, it is true that both the head of state Klasnic and the head of the state of Carinthia are Dr. Zernatto for this Semmering base tunnel, while the head of state Pröll is in Lower Austria and does everything that he is not built. The party observer of the ÖVP, Dr. Schüssel, signals, though, when he is in Carinthia, understanding and willing, in However, it is in Vienna or Lower Austria that he cannot stand up against his colleagues, Mr Pröll. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: Not true at all! How can you claim that?- Oh, my God!]] In the field of FPÖ we find a similar situation. The Styrian FPÖ, at the head of the state president Helmut Schmid, is fully responsible for the construction of the Semmering Base Tunnel. The Carinthian FPÖ was still a few years ago – this can be read in the memorandum of the Kärntner Landesregierung under the head of the state Dr. Haider. Also Landeshauptmann Deputy Grasser was until his retirement. Today, the FPÖ – unfortunately, I have to say – is becoming increasingly clear, although some Members of the Liberals in the Carinthian Landtag are still standing there. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] Ladies and gentlemen! These disputes do not interest the Carinthians at all. The Carinthian population is only interested in making the necessary and right decision as soon as possible for a forward-looking transport infrastructure. Carinthia needs the Semmering base tunnel. Carinthia needs a reduction in driving time by at least one quarter of an hour for citizens. Carinthia needs the South Railway as an economic rail. Carinthia's economy cannot wait for the completion of the southeast spange until 2030 or even 2035. This is not a delay, it is a matter of setting priorities. You can't say, southeast team yes and Semmering base tunnel no. – Both are necessary! Carinthia needs a solution within the next ten years, and it can only be called: Semmering base tunnel, south railway development and use of side trains. Then this goal would be achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e12280	Mr Edler. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e12301	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been said repeatedly today that it has been a great success achieved by our Minister for Transport in Brussels. I think we should also sell this as a success. Ladies and gentlemen! I do not understand our coalition partner ÖVP at all, if he has said today, for example, that these agreements have no particularly positive effects. I admit, there is a Tyrolean problem, that is to solve. Ladies and gentlemen, in particular by the ÖVP! For us Social Democrats, it is also incomprehensible that your Minister Farnleitner – he will soon be here – was unable or unwilling to implement the truck-road pricing, that is, the cost-trueness of the truck. That must be said clearly, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The success of this Marathon Negotiation in Brussels is positive in that it will be at least 200 000 trucks less on the roads in the future – particularly the Western region, particularly Tyrol – and probably even 500 000 less. – If this is not a success, I don’t know what a success is! Ladies and gentlemen! We need in the future – I recognize this and have already expressed it repeatedly – in addition to the transit routes, of course also the expansion of the high-performance rail lines. That is absolutely necessary! We are successful in this respect as far as the Westbahn is concerned. But we need to go east and north, and we have special problems towards the south. The Semmering base tunnel has been mentioned repeatedly today. Ladies and gentlemen! We await the decisions of the Supreme Courts. However, we will have to make a decision afterwards, otherwise Austria will be passing away. I would also like to appeal to the representatives of the economy: They like to get a position as to whether they want it. We know exactly: Only then, if we are on the international road, do we have the chance that businesses will settle, do we have the chance that the economy will develop positively. Ladies and gentlemen! Since this is about tunnel construction and it has been said that soon there will be no water at Semmering, I would like to stress one thing: There have already been thousands of tunnels built on our globe, and water is flowing wherever it is drilled into a mountain, but in no region has there been a water shortage. Switzerland is proving this to us very clearly. For example, the last Swiss referendum has found that Switzerland will continue to expand the high-performance railways and tunnels. In summary, ladies and gentlemen: We Socialists want a networked, ecologically acceptable transport policy and give priority to public transport because people and the environment must be given priority to us. We're not against the truck, I want to emphasize that. He has a job to do in the economy, that is no question at all. But you have to make sense of the truck and build a better logistics. As positive I would like to mention, for example, that the Austrian Federal Railways have built up a very good logistics in cooperation with the freight forwarders. I hope that will continue. There is a chance that both sides of this transport cake, which is constantly growing, as we know, will have their share and benefit from it, so that we will have an ecologically acceptable transport policy as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, because the ÖBB were repeatedly mentioned: As a railway driver, I am particularly pleased that the Austrian Federal Railways were able, because of the ÖBB Act, because of the reforms carried out, but sometimes painful in the operation – we know that; there are intense discussions and discussions between the Board of Directors, staff representatives and trade union, but most of them have been debated – to reach a top place within Europe. We can be proud of this together!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e12363	Mrs Dr Gabriela Moser spoke. Second word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e12384	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The theme is "transport policy in the European context", but certainly more than 50 percent of the debate duration has already been devoted to an Austrian internal project, namely the Semmering base tunnel. Let me therefore make some clear observations, because in this Semmering debate there must above all be an objective voice. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Are you for it or against it?- Oh, my God!]] This objective voice says – first point –: Railway projects are not to be tested more intensively than road projects. Road projects must in themselves be examined at least as intensively as railway projects! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The second objective is to: Railway projects shall also be assessed for their economic benefits, for the criterion of accessibility and for the criterion of location development. – The Semmering Base Tunnel accelerates traffic, but it does not open up new spaces and does not improve accessibility except for 20 minutes of time gain. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: We want to see the Wabl!]] [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: We want to hear the Wabl!]] - No problem! The third finding is: There is consensus among the Greens that, regardless of whether this is on the other side or beyond Semmering, more funds must be devoted to the railway projects as a whole. This also means – fourth point – that the development of the southeast Styria and southern Burgenland is necessary through a railway infrastructure. That is to say, fifthly, that the debate on the south-east spange is not complete for us as a whole, and that a quick solution must definitely be found as an intermediate step. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Zweytick]] That means: Electricalization, gradual expansion and improvement of the aspangbahn also in the sense of accessibility and development. I think we should do all of this, because we have done too little or nothing for the track so far. It is essential, however, that we do not strangle other projects with Semmering. It is essential that we continue to make available funds in the meantime, while the legal question has not yet been finally clarified, to put in place emergency measures by improving, electrifying, accelerating and extending a second railway line to Graz. The future dimension is also essential, for example, that we also open the southern Burgenland via the south-east spange. The accessibility is the central concern, the development is essential, but the Semmering is only punctual. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e12483	I call Mr Firlinger. The clock is set to 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e12505	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have no choice but to submit another motion for a resolution by the Liberals, which reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e12553	There is no further statement of words to this effect. The debate is closed. On the other hand, I have the desire to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled some time ago. That is what we are going to do, and we are going to do so. We have, however, agreed in the presidency that such a request will be made in the Bureau a few minutes earlier. I therefore ask the staff at the Bureau: Are you ready for a name-named vote? [[This question is being denied.]] - Then we vote in favour of the list. It has just been called for, about 20 seconds ago, a nominal vote. We shall come to the vote. First of all, I would like to refer to the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Trattner and comrades on renegotiation of the transit package. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree with Trattner's request for a sign. – This is the minority. This application is therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the naughty vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Members. Schweitzer and comrades concerning the failure of confidence towards the Federal Minister for Science and Transport in accordance with Article 74(1) of the Federal Constitution. Since a quota of at least half of the Members is required for such a decision by the National Council in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Constitution, I note that this quota is given. As the vote is required, we shall carry it out in accordance with the list of Members. I would ask you to tell me, at least, which Members are apologised, because I cannot see this on this list. I will call on the individual Members and ask those who agree to the request for distrust to reply with "yes" and those who reject the request for distrust to reply with "no". I'll start with the call and ask you to hold the result. [[Unrest in the hall.]] Please don't call, you can't hear the yes and the no so well.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e12639	That's the end of the call. I may interrupt the sitting briefly for the purpose of counting the votes. I will then make the result known as soon as possible. The sitting was suspended. (The competent officials shall take the vote. – The meeting was suspended at 5.58 p.m. and resumed at 6 p.m.)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e12670	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote: 40 Members voted in favour of the request for a failure of confidence. 107 Members voted against. The application was therefore rejected. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be indicated in the Stenographic Protocol, bearing in mind their voting behaviour. With "Yes", the Members voted: Apple beck, Aumayr; Blünegger, Böhacker, Brauneder; Dolnschek; Flylinger, Fischl; Gaugg, Count, Grollitsch; Haider, Haigermoser, Head, Hofmann; Young; Klein, Koller, Krüger, Kurzmann; Lauter; Madl, Marolt, Meischberger, Meisinger, Mentil; Nut trees; Of which: Partik-Pablé, Povysil, Preisinger, Pumberger; Rieß; Salzl, Scheibner, Schöggl, Schweitzer, Stadler, Trattner; Wenitsch. With 'No', the Members voted: Ablinger, Achs, Antoni, Auer, Barmüller, Bauer Sophie, Brinek, Brix, Buder, Bures; Cap; Dietachmayr, Donabauer; Eder Kurt, Edler Joseph, Ellmauer, Feurstein, Fink, friend, fox; Gaal, Gartlehner, Gazner, Grabner, Gredler, Großruck, Guggenberger, Gusenbauer, Hagenhofer, Heindl Kurt, Heinzl Anton, Hlavac, Horngacher, Hums; Jarolim; Kaipel, Kammerlander, Kaufmann, Doppelmüller, Khol, Kiermaier, Kiss, König, Konrad, Koppler, Koppler, Kostelka, Krammer, Herbs, Kröll, Kukacka, Kummerer; Leikam, Leiner, Löschnak, Luke; Maitz, Marizzi, Mertel, Morak, Moser Gabriela, Moser Hans Helmut, Moser-Starrach Sonja, Mühlbachler, Müller, Murauer; Niederweiser, Nowotny; Oberhaidinger, oillinger; Perfuss, Parnigoni, Pendl, Peter, Pittermann, Platter, Posch, Puttinger; Rada, riding; Schaffenrath, Schieder, Schmidt, Schuster, Schwarzböck, Schwarzenberger, Schwemmlein, Schwimmer, Seidinger, Sigl, Silhavy, Smolle, Stampler, Steibl, Steindl, Stippel; Tegischer, Tichy-Schreiter, Drinkl, Tychtl; Van der Bellen; Wabl, Wallner, Wimmer, Worm, Wormitzer; Zweytick.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e12835	We shall now proceed to item 3 of the agenda. [[Unrest in the hall.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I have put the motion for a resolution to the vote before the vote on the motion for a resolution and then put the vote to the vote. We have now voted on both motions for resolutions. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Mr. President!]] Please, Mr. Khol! Mr. Dr. Khol! [[Abg. Mr Khol: I remember three motions for resolutions being put to the vote. Mr President, has there not been a motion for a resolution on renegotiation?]] [[President Dr. Fischer talks with a concept official.]] A motion for a resolution has been put forward by Trattner, but honourable Member Trattner – or Firlinger – has not spoken, and therefore the request is... [[Call to the liberals: But! Yes!]] [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: Yes, but much later!]] I am interrupting the session for a short time and ask the liberties' clubpers to me so that we can verify it.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e12914	I'll start the interrupted session again. It has also been clarified and confirmed by Mr Firlinger that the proposal which I have tabled here as a draft which is not tabled has been tabled and therefore must be voted on. I would therefore ask that, after we have voted on the two other proposals, we should also vote on this proposal by Firlinger. We are talking about the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. F vanlinger, Mag. Sweitzer and colleagues on taking account of the Court of Auditors' recommendations. This request is – I read it so that the misunderstanding that has occurred cannot continue – as follows: The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Minister for Science and Transport is invited to ensure that the construction work on the probes is stopped immediately and that all measures recommended in the Court of Auditors Special Report on the Semmering Base Tunnel are taken immediately." This request will now be put to the vote. I should like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. 3rd. Point Report of the Economic and Social Committee on the Government Template (1475 of the Supplements): Federal Law amending the Federal Law on Special Funding of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises (SMEs Funding Act) (1528 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e12983	Only now can we properly reach 3rd place. Debates of the European Parliament There is no need for reporting. The first speaker is Mr. Dr. Puttinger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e13010	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! In 1998, tourism is a year of hope. The hope that the valley sole of development in tourism has gone through is thank God – or hopefully! – completed. The hope that what has been called for - namely the financing situation, the equity situation in small and medium-sized enterprises, especially those in tourism - will finally be realized today, I believe, will also be fulfilled. Today's SME Funding Act is an important step in the right direction. It standardises a redundancie by the federal government for a liability sobligo of a total of 14 billion schilling, in individual cases up to a requirement of 10 million schilling at the BÜRGES and up to 25 million schilling at the ÖHT. The main objectives are to maintain and improve the competitiveness and capital situation, to safeguard and create employment in existing tourism companies and to support the establishment of such establishments. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is with this new SME funding law – thank God! – will succeed in finally bringing capital flows to a different direction. That is the objective, we have wished, and I believe that this law will finally succeed. [[Call to the liberals: we need that!]] [[In the case of the ÖVP, the members of the SPÖ and the Agg. May. Peter.]] In particular, small and medium-sized enterprises in local tourism are expected to have a long-term chance of success. Your financial structure will certainly be improved significantly and vehemently through the partial coverage of the risks of the investor. The possible formation of cooperation, an objective of this law, is seen as a means of overcoming the disadvantages of the small structure of the Austrian tourism industry. Support for the financing of such cooperation with the help of liability will help to improve competitiveness in this area as well. All of this is in line with the European Union's objective to increase the volume of employment, innovation and economic dynamics by strengthening the support of small and medium-sized enterprises. Ladies and gentlemen! I would now like to address a few points of the question: What priority measures could be put in place under this SME Funding Act for the economy? – The law could be used to finance innovative tourism projects and seasonally extending infrastructural measures. It could be used by taking over guarantees as a complementary measure for the financial restructuring of companies, but of course only if the creditor has made re-indebtedness when capital cuts have been made and if this allows for a total restructuring of the company. It could also be used for private and institutional equity guarantees to strengthen the equity base of existing companies. The poor capital availability of tourism companies, which is generally known, requires an essential mobilization of all additional possibilities such as participation and risk capital use. I would ask the Minister of Finance and his officials to give his consent to this In fact, all financial resources can be tapped into the area, for example, that it is also possible to tap financial resources of the managing director to tap up family financial resources. It is incomprehensible to me why it is not possible to open up to a company all possible sources to acquire capital. I really ask you, Mr. Finanzminister – even if you are not here today –: Is this an old ideological hat to prevent entrepreneurs from being helped to prevent jobs from being safeguarded in this area? – I think that such Austromarxist movements should have been overcome for a long time today! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! A further focus could be on guarantees for the establishment and capital strengthening of cooperation. A focus could be placed on facilitating new start-up and the acquisition and continuation of existing tourism companies. This is to be done, among other things, through quality-enhancing investments in acquisitions and operations. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Let us not forget that quality improvements and supply diversification could also be supported by a guarantee. However, capacity increases should be excluded in this case. The development should go clearly towards quality and not towards quantity. Finally, there could also be a guarantee for the creation of suitable structures for the recovery of incoming tourism. For it is this way, ladies and gentlemen, that we first guests – good guests! – to bring them into the country so that we can also show them what quality we have to offer them in this country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And Austria has the quality that we need on the international market in the long term. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I believe that this law has succeeded in really turning capital flows into a new direction, and I think that this is important for tourism. In my opinion, since today is a day of hope for tourism, I hope you will all agree. – In this sense, I ask you to agree to this law.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e13061	The next speaker is Mr Parnigoni. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e13082	Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! High house! If we are talking today about the SME Funding Act, we should be aware that 99.8% of the businesses in Austria are SMEs, i.e. small and medium-sized enterprises within the meaning of this division. Ladies and gentlemen! If we look at the tourism industry, we see that its operating structure fully fits into this division. What problems arise in this area, and why is this amendment of the Promotion Act necessary? – Because we know that sizes are too small, and because we know there is a shortage of equity. In the Corporate Reorganisation Act, for example, the target size is provided for with 8 percent equity. In contrast, for example, in the four- and five-star category of tourism in 1996 we have a minus of 1.3 percent or a negative balance sheet capital of minus 14 percent in the area of the three-star category. We have problems in this sector in the field of seasonality, we depend on the weather. We have problems in terms of employment, and we have different concepts and ideas here. And above all, a modernisation shift would be necessary, because 36 percent of businesses belonging to the single and two-star categories have clear demand problems. There demand is declining. On the other hand, in the good qualities – four- and five-star categories – there is an increase of more than 8 percent. The proposal that we have been discussing for a long time and which the Social Democrats have also contributed to, Mr Federal Minister, was therefore that the Austrian Tourism Bank – and as such the ÖHT should actually be able to work in the future – should be able to assume a liability of up to 25 million schilling in individual cases, in addition to the possibility of the loan money that has already existed. I believe, in particular, that the possibilities offered by the proposed framework of 3.5 billion schilling should not be so much for defensive restructuring, but above all – Mr Puttinger has also pointed out what I would like to say here positively – for offensive measures to improve the competitiveness of our companies. We should be aware of the fact that structural change in this sector is, of course, in progress. Although the figures for 1998 are quite optimistic, this does not mean that structural change is over and that the past is a part of it. On the contrary: It is necessary to support, in particular, those innovative tourism projects which have regional or trans-regional irradiation, and above all, those opportunities which can be used to bring private and institutional capital into line with the issue of acquisitions that we are dealing with, in order to promote, for example, the acquisition of a neighbouring company to strengthen marketability by increasing or improving the quality of investment. I am particularly concerned that there are capital strengthenings in cooperation. However, this should not only concern cooperation in the field of business associations in the same industry, for example in the housing industry, but also I am concerned with allowing so-called vertical cooperations, so that companies in the whole area of the tourism industry – from the hotelier to the host industry to the cable car industry – can find themselves together in collaborations to make this business agglomerate more stable and also allow for a possibly more professional management. Ladies and gentlemen! Structural change should be seen as an opportunity! It is an opportunity to be used. I am convinced that the support measures of the SME Funding Act will be useful. Unfortunately, Mr Puttinger is no longer there – apparently the ÖVP has convened a club meeting – but it was directed to him: [[Abg. Haigermoser: A crisis meeting, no club meeting!]] In the case of sensible measures, as in this law, Mr Federal Minister, we will be involved. But in those proposals which I have read in this 10-point or 20-point programme and which are directed against the workers, we will be very, very vigilant! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e13137	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Haider. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e13159	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we are adopting a law that has a further possibility to promote a part of our domestic economy. The aim of the promotion is to assume liability and guarantees for small and medium-sized enterprises, particularly in tourism. This is actually an extension of what we have already known at the BÜRGES. Now you have to ask yourself: Is this the business card you're making, Federal Minister? Is this the business card of the ÖVP's economic policy that, by means of legal measures, it is almost necessary to try, as a red Cross station behind the front, to save the needy or wounded in some way? – For the main purpose of this liability and guarantee acceptance by the Austrian Hotel Trustee Hand or the Austrian Tourism Bank, as it is called, is defined by law: The aim is to avoid claims, to enable re-indebtedness, to redispose financing in the long term and to extend liabilities. However, this must only be done if this industry, which is investing and has a very significant share of our economy – and this has the tourism industry – has a problem. Because it's only the one who's going to the doctor to take an injection that's not going well or that's sick. And only the one goes to the Austrian hotel loyalty or the BÜRGES to get a guarantee or liability, which in principle is not particularly good. This is the main purpose of all these activities. Tourism, of course, is not going well. And why is he not doing well? – Because the tax legislation of recent years has gone in a direction that has led to an industry that is forced to invest quickly and often in a negative equity ratio. The explanatory remarks on this law state that the area of tourism traditionally has a scarce capitalization. It's exactly what I'm saying here – I'm quoting: "Tourism traditionally calls a scarce capitalization its own." - Quote. On this "own" the tourists would like to give up, Mr. Federal Minister! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is as if this circumstance were a divine thing! [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Farnleitner.]] Federal Minister! It is said that capital is close to the tourism sector, because there is something else to be thought of. – But I say: It is not for tourism to have a scarce capitalization, a negative interest rate and a negative equity ratio, but it is the fault of a policy for which you are also responsible, Mr Federal Minister. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That's the fault of a policy that stands in a diametric contrast to what you've propagated a few days ago. The third point of the EIA's positions on tourism is as follows: Capitalisation of holdings, traditional equity shortages, structural weaknesses offset by capital increases, current equity capital is totally unsatisfying. You're a minister! You're in the government! Your voice is so crucial that you could move a lot! A minister can, in truth, enforce everything with his veto! I'm really wondering: Why not, then, instead of constantly making any restructuring laws, once again insist that there is a tax reform, which also includes capital-building and promoting measures? – That would be what we would imagine! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Why do you go a path that is completely opposed to your philosophy? Why do you help if everything is already broken if the crisis has already broken out? – This is more or less an insolvency prevention law, a postponement of the "death"! A "death on rates" is in many cases associated with it. Why are you doing this instead of saying: In fact, we want to go on a path which guarantees that the person who is proven to be in the market has the right to invest in it.Unknown term type: "%s".? This is the basic idea of our free tax model, the flat tax: Any entrepreneur who makes an investment should already be able to write 100 percent of his investment in the first year. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] – I believe that this is a modern tax policy. In my opinion, this is also an exemption from tourism from this difficult situation that has been brought into it. Now, of course, we can say that the tourism companies are already so weak, now we have to help them. – But that doesn’t prevent you from even doing the right thing and not cutting the horse at the tail. Because there's one more thing to do: This law also states that, in the case of large projects, in the case of major reorganisation cases, the Federal Minister decides highly personally. In the case of smaller, less important cases, he may delegate the decision to bureaucracy. – This is exactly the entrepreneurship concept of the ÖVP: The bureaucracy decides on investment, the Minister decides on the viability of a company – and not the success of the market. I ask you to: Get rid of the farms! Lower the taxes! Create an investment-friendly climate in this country! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Then you will find another situation that favours investment, so that you as a minister do not have to decide whether or not to continue to live. They know quite well that many entrepreneurs – we have many small and medium-sized enterprises that are family businesses – feel it pretty slow to be humiliated that on the one hand they are being treated so badly that they cannot be earned, and on the other hand, when it becomes difficult to go to the Minister, to beg the officials, to beg for kneels and, so to speak, to be shed light on the bureaucracy, of officials who have never carried the risk that the entrepreneur has carried with his employees throughout their lives! That's the wrong philosophy you're pursuing here! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That is what I wanted to say about this law, because I think that what is happening here cannot actually fit into the EIA. For me, this is a facet where one can see that the Federal Minister has recognized: In the last twelve years, since the ÖVP has been in the government with the Socialists, we have actually broken the tourism industry down, and now we have to clean up at all corners and ends. There is also a commitment to the adoption of offensive measures, but, Mr Federal Minister, offensive measures are only mentioned in the second place. That is to say, the first objective appears to be to bring about a diseased, capital-eating economy in the tourism sector with public aid. And that should make you think. I know you can't solve the problem from today to tomorrow, but at last, even with the tax reform under way, you could make a difference which gives the small and medium-sized entrepreneurs hope. They could do with what the EU actually required. Read the reports on the network of SMEs within the European Union! What is one of the key points in these reports? One of the key rates is that small and medium-sized enterprises will not be able to do well until investment benefits are created by the de-taxation of profits not collected, by allowing capital formation and by reducing the additional wage costs. – You do not need to create public repairs if you go this way, which the EU has also proposed to you! It would then become interesting for the local tourism industry.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e13285	The Federal Minister has spoken. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e13306	Mr President. High house! Before Mr Haider may go out, I do not want to miss the opportunity to explain to him what we have been discussing in committee a few times. Please, first of all, can I say that in this body? – that... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gaugg.]] – You should understand more about banking.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e13328	Mr Gaugg! I would ask you not to use this vocabulary against a minister. Now you are speaking again, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e13346	There is a very positive instrument. We have demonstrated in Austria with the instrument of the renewal fund – later FGG – and the state liability that liability is very likely to be an instrument to favour very risky companies in the initial phase. There you can have dozens of examples of businesses – I could name them as well – that started with little capital, got a liability for their residual capital, and then entered a growth process with enough capital. Otherwise we would not have many of our companies in export so successful. Therefore: The liability was in the exceptional case – I emphasize: in the exceptional case! – used for repairs. First point. Second point – this is what we see in the example of the ÖHT and the BÜRGES: In the BÜRGES, the majority is not used for renovations but for new projects. In the ÖHT we had to choose this focus, because too many Austrian hotel companies have been in the possession of the banks from the first day and the so-called owner has never invested more than 2 or 3 percent in equity. If one finds such a situation and does not deal with these instruments, then the bank is the owner on a permanent basis and chooses its managing director by changing ownership. That is why this second point is necessary. The third point – and this is to be said clearly – is the question: What helps us 100 percent depreciation for companies that can't even pay the interest now, although we now have a trend towards interest rate reduction? – I warn in the tourism sector of a model which provides for a 100% interest rate depreciation, because this would mean that capital from other sectors would migrate to the tourism sector in order to benefit from this depreciation discount and create additional capacities that we do not need in our country at present and to this extent. I would ask that we understand this once over three tracks. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: The companies invest when it pays off!]] – Yes, d’accord! We know from the recent experience of what happened in East Germany that capital has gone to depreciation. [[Abg. Haigermoser: This is a completely different model!]] The situation in Austria is now such that many of our hotels are no longer creditable, that we have too little private risk capital, which is without liability the way to... – because they have already started with little equity, with respect. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: But why did they get into this situation?]] Please! - Yes, it may be. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: There are very wealthy families that in reality over decades...!]] The Austrian experience shows that most of our major hotels were founded without equity or with almost none – except the bank, and that is foreign capital. I just wanted to make it clear once: It is important that we pursue all three strategies, that we promote first of all the innovative with liabilities, second that we get the "repair shop" with liabilities back and thirdly we lead completely new things in the way of liability, especially as far as the Leisure landscape, as it is so beautiful, is concerned in Austria, so that we have more to offer than just extreme urban and extreme land culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e13427	Thank you, Minister of State. The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Peter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e13452	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I am glad that we have come to such a high level of tourism debate today. I think, Jörg Haider, that you've already done the right thing. The answer you give with the flat tax and depreciation already in the first year is wrong, however, insofar as – as the Federal Minister rightly said – an industry that would have such high and favourable depreciation opportunities would experience a capital inflow from other sectors that would not only provide – and this would be positive – existing enterprises with a new capital structure – but also new owners – but would also result in further uncontrolled expansion of the capacity of the beds. The problem of the industry is today on the redemption side. Exploitation times price, this value today is simply and grippingly too low. If the growth of the tourism industry had developed from 1992 on, as the Austrian economy as a whole has developed, then foreign tourism alone would have to be around 50 to 60 billion schillings higher than it is today. The value of foreign exchange revenue was already 161 billion schilling, then fell to 142 and is now about 150 billion schilling. But if you nominately add that to the growth figures, then about an amount comes out in the order of 50 billion schilling in turnover that ultimately is missing. In other words, the number of beds has remained the same, but 50 billion schilling of foreign tourism sales has been lost. This is a problem of return on the part of the farmers, and of course this problem has been dealt with on the income side, so that today the least of the farms are able to do so, I say positively now, to pay taxes because they cannot even pay their interest or come to full cost coverage. This would be a recipe that may help one company or another, but always poses the danger that at once a new building boom will be created in this sector, which we cannot possibly need. But it's one thing you said: The problem of the cost side is a state. We have been in decline since EU accession, thank God. We have fallen interest rates since the development towards Euro, thank God, and we also have declining energy costs. These are three positive factors. Federal Minister! But all cost increases – and they totaled much more than the three reductions I mentioned – are state-induced. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Farnleitner.]] These reductions were a right policy in the context of integration into the European Union. You're right, Minister. But what we have experienced in increasing costs in this sector has been decided here in the House. These cost increases were mainly related to labour costs, environmental costs and bureaucracy costs. You can, of course – and I repeat this again and again here at this point – decide on individual measures where there are many good arguments as to why these measures are necessary, why they are correct and target-oriented. But the costs of these measures always come together – from all sides – at the farms. There they accumulate, so that we are in a cost situation today, in which we will never again achieve these figures, which we once had, and which we urgently need, in order to take advantage of the existing capacities and to achieve positive balance sheets, because of the market's limitation. Federal Minister! The liability you now introduce is a right way if they do not only take place in the area of restructuring. To decide on restructuring is a very essential decision. If you now make your own or the ÖHT or the BÜRGES restructuring decisions, then the prerequisite is that there are excellent professionals who can read the balance sheets and judge businesses and then say: In this operation there is an opportunity of restructuring, the opportunity to start a new life, and with that there is no longer any one, this operation must be blocked. – This is a very great responsibility they take over. I therefore see your liability not only in connection with restructuring, but also in order to finance future-oriented ways, that is to say clearly: by means of liabilities, new, innovative concepts in the tourism industry can be made possible. In the end, promotions will never replace business decisions, but they can make business decisions predictable and they can lead business decisions more positively to the goal. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Because we are just talking about tourism, a few sentences on "Austrian advertising". I think it is an important and indispensable institution that is applying the Austrian brand as a whole. The image, which goes from Austria's brand, is far beyond the tourism sector, and it affects the entire export industry. The past, as I think, was shaped by the luckless managing director Dr. Lukas, who is a – how do I lovingly formulate it now? – has passed on difficult office, the heavy heritage of a fully bureaucratic and inefficient company. It is a success of "Austrian advertising" – and in so far as your success is due to your responsibility – that today's common costs have fallen well below 50 percent and advertising costs are well over 50 percent, close to 60 percent. I think that's right. I believe that the Duo Höferer & Kübler has done a good job. Furthermore, we finally have an "Austrian advertising", which represents a very clear advertising line in the third year. Ladies and gentlemen! It is not about whether we taste the worm as a fisherman, but it must taste the fish. And this advertising, both on television and in the audiovisual media, as well as in the print media, is marked by a clear and recognizable line and, as I think, crowned with success. Federal Minister! The fact that this restructuring programme, launched by the courts, will also raise conflicts was clear. That around these conflicts there is also an intrigue game about "Austrian advertising" which is commendable, I think is really sad because it hinders the work of the people who work there for a good branding of Austria. It is an unworthy spectacle when party political interests are brought into the "Austrian Advertising". Federal Minister! It is completely indifferent to me what "color" the Lord Hoferer has, whether he is striped yellow, green, black or purple, but the intrigues that are now running clearly come from one side, because this means that an institution such as the "Austrian advertising" belongs to the "black" area. – I think this is unbearable, I must tell you. I'm making a confession to today's "Austrian Advertising." She's working well. Criticism is where it is necessary to apply in direct conversation. A clear word on cooperation with the "Austrian Advertising" offices: Where there are material and technical synergies everywhere, we should use them in partnership and equal opportunities. Every attempt to make the "Austrian advertising" a branch of the Chamber of Commerce, I think first of all that it is inappropriate and second wrong. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Federal Minister! I mean, it's not useful to set up "Austrian advertising" on public news reports, not to decide on their budget, but to do so, I think it's a great deal to get together with the countries, to develop a concept of how we can achieve synergies with the foreign trade agencies and the branches of "Austrian advertising" – different from the markets; there are very different requirements, there's nothing to beat about a performance here – and to make them equal partners who represent Austria together. I'm once again bringing in the idea that I've been able to articulate here several times: There are so many institutions working abroad for Austria. Let us build a holding on it, a holding company that does nothing but organize it and regulate the use of the financial resources, and then try to organize the representation of Austria in a purely factual way abroad! There is no room for party political interests and repugnant intrigues there!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e13554	The next speaker is Mr Deputies Van der Bellen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e13575	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The amendment to the SME Funding Act, which we are adopting today, is okay, we will also agree to it. But, Mr Federal Minister, this is just a little more of what we have already done. In essence, all of this is already in the law of 1996, now the liability framework is being increased, it is improved a little and transferred specifically to the hospitality industry. [[Abg. Haigermoser: He's getting better!]] But really new is nothing in it. I try to explain what I would expect from an SME funding law: an overall codification or an overall approach to promoting young businesses, as I believe, we agree that this would be necessary and correct, once again to create this wave of founding, which we have conjured for years and days, but which does not really come about, even if some progress has been made in this regard. In my opinion, this overall concept should include the following – it is not a complete list –: Firstly, a qualification programme for the founders, from initial qualification to survival aid, a kind of survival training. I am not sure whether the monopoly of the social partners in this area, namely the educational institutions of WIFI and BFI, is a good thing in this case. I am against monopoly in principle and therefore also against this. Secondly, a reorganisation of information in all respects and the establishment of central contact points. In this case too, I am not happy that the Chambers are trying to organize this, because there are potential conflicts of interest in promoting young businesses in the Chambers. Thirdly, Capital market reforms for the provision of venture capital. The amendment we are deciding on today does not offer anything in this respect, but, if I understand correctly, it will only facilitate the inclusion of bank loans through the liabilities. But that's not a venture capital model. Fourthly, we may need – I don't know very well – reforms of the bankruptcy order. Fifthly, I do not need to say that again and again, we need to consider how the trade regulation can be further liberalised and, in other words, it is simply necessary to reduce restrictions on access to the market in every respect. Sixthly, I would not be afraid to think about fiscal – if you so wish – privileges, especially for young companies, from packs to certain benefits in the area of income or corporate tax law for an initial period. Of course, always under the condition of EU conformity and so on, that is clear. Seventeenths: A link with the technology offensive – which we are still waiting for – would not be bad either. It would be important to create this specifically in this market. Eight, ninth and tenth is probably a number of points that my imagination has not been enough at the moment. I would like to see an overall approach specifically aimed at promoting young businesses. I mean, there's a lot of sympathy for that. However, until now we have only managed in very small things to really move on. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e13611	The next speaker was Mr Heindl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e13632	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have a newspaper report in which it says: "Hotels where the vulture takes a holiday." – This article refers to an analysis of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and is actually covered by what I have already said in the discussion on the tourism report. Of course, there are several areas where improvements would be desirable. But the figures clearly state that the lack of equity of the "Sargnagel number one" is as stated in this article. – Ladies and gentlemen! You can't express it more clearly. If one creates a basis here, Mr. Federal Minister – I know, this is not contained in the law, but that is a big concern to me – then I think one should restructure where it makes sense. Of course, improvements in equity and assistance are necessary. Two things are very important when it comes to founding, and we have to say this much more clearly, Mr Van der Bellen. I do not feel that I am an Austromarxist, as Mr Puttinger believes we have to put this into practice. The question arises as to what my attitude has to do with austromarxist thought. – In addition, it is not a bad philosophy, but it has nothing to do with economic policy. Two things have to be taken into account when setting up: First of all, if you do not create a reasonable capital base, you should not even think of starting a hotel. This is a big mistake that is not only made in Austria. I advise entrepreneurs, and I don't even let anyone start building a hotel if it doesn't have an equity base of at least 20.25 percent for that. In a crisis situation, the pleite is pre-programmed because it simply doesn't work! [[Abg. Böhacker: A third would be even better!]] 30 percent would be better, that's clear. This is also to be taken into account in the directive, Mr Federal Minister. It's lost money, and you seduce people into a wrong path when you say: Start with 3 or 5 percent!; to continue working with guarantees or support. - Wrong way! If we want to help someone – and we have to be happy when there are people who go this way – then we have to say: Just do it under reasonable conditions. We are giving initial assistance, but you must be able to raise a minimum level of equity yourself, because that is the basis for cases of illness that can happen. These must not at all be industrialized, but can also come from the market, they can have different causes. Statistics show that the exogenic causes of insolvency are actually minimal and only 12 percent of the cases were decisive. [[The red light shines.]] – 4 minutes speaking time is unfortunately very little when you deal with this delicate topic. I insist that the directive must include: In the case of company start-up, a high level of equity capital and from the beginning controlling are required, which is what most companies are missing from us. Someone doesn't know where he's standing after a year or a year and a half. In fact, every month he needs to see where he stands to know if he has to do something in one direction or another. So there are guidelines and guidelines to be given. The State can, when it intervenes and helps, create real framework conditions, not so much in the interest of the State, but especially in the interest of the person concerned. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e13674	The next speaker is Mr Haigermoser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e13695	Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Helmut Peter! For "Austrian advertising": I also don't care where the respective boss or employee of "Austrian advertising" is politically standing. I don't care about the bike that's coming down in Beijing right now. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Peter.]] But it's not that simple, because the conditions in Höferer's "Austrian Advertising" are not to be particularly positive in hearing what the operating climate is going to do. The mob that happens there shouldn't just wipe away so nonchalant. [[Abg. May. Peter: I have more information!]] – Perhaps you are insider, that may be already, but the question is not whether Mr Höferer – if that is the case – replaces the black party books with red ones. That's not in the inventor's mind! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We believe that things should be put into practice, regardless of party membership, and then the public discussions are gone. – End of the passage. And the success will be measured. If you're riding a defense filipa now, then I have to say, I hear a lot of sound in my ears. There's probably a little bit of a connection... [[Abg. May. Peter: Tell me what you mean! Why so cryptic?- Oh, my God!]] – I know you well enough, Helmut Peter, from the time you were with us as far as slothness is concerned. I'm not saying this negatively, but I'm saying that there's not the objectivity going through with you right now. Objectivity has not gone through with you in your interpretations. Federal Minister! Much has already been said about the whole act of law, but a half sentence in the general remarks is already important because he actually honors you. As regards the medium-sized economy: "They are, however, subject to severe burdens, especially in the legislative field." – So that’s really a strong half set! These burdens – they have already been addressed by a number of speakers – have been decided by Parliament. So the ladies and gentlemen who are currently sitting here, and others who are elsewhere, have decided on these heavy burdens, which they themselves regret in the government template. It is now going on with the grant, compulsorily or positively. [[Federal Minister Dr. Farnleitner: No grant!]] That's exactly the wrong direction. I would like to mention it under quotation marks. It is an instrument for repairing what has been decided as a burden on this Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. That's the problem. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! They made a wonderful work: "The Austrian founding event", you recently presented, namely last year. On page 79 it says: The main motive for the way to independence: The use of a self-providing opportunity, independence, benefits and asset formation. – These terms stand in the first four positions as reasons why a young person makes himself independent. How do you accompany this independence? How does the government accompany this commitment? How is wealth formation accompanied? – These are the central questions. Thankfully, you have had this questioned and worked out. But the answers, Mr. Federal Minister, are gone. I have made the effort to make your statement on the economic situation of 8. In July 1997, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and Soap bubble one: Location conditions. In the site discussion, the Ministry of Economic Affairs' demands have shown that large companies, in particular, complain of the high costs of electricity and telecommunications in international comparison. They will therefore be committed to an energy organisation law with more favourable conditions in terms of electricity costs for entrepreneurs. The same applies to telecommunications et cetera. - Nothing happened! It's going to be doctored around. The coalition argues about how to proceed. Soap bubble two: Research and development. Mr Hochleitner and Professor Schmidt have already written it to you in the main book, what happens to this research billion. It has once been said that providing several billion schilling for industrial research. – Not even one billion Schillings have you brought together, Minister of State! "Knappertsbusch" was everything that came about. That was the whole matter. That is to say, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Federal Minister, you are stuck to your words, and you must be pleased that at least the opposition says: It is a law that we now decide on, according to the motto "Dear the spat in hand than the dove on the roof", but the great litter you have announced you have remained guilty to us until now! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We will always point out to the public and you that you are to be measured by your actions. I have quoted your words here, and some of them are still open.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e13782	The Federal Minister is speaking. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e13803	I would like to give some information. I regret that our recent publications are not read or at least not taken over by those newspapers that are being read. On the comments by Professor Van der Bellen: To the last re-foundations. It's clear: Austria is now far above the European average for young business start-ups with more than 70 percent equity. For the first time, an Austrian generation of entrepreneurs is on the market, which is really exceptionally well funded with equity. With a survival rate of 72 percent, we are at the forefront of Europe. We have 5 billion unused venture capital. We now need, in order to say that on some of the tax issues, the tax-free, that is, tax-neutral transfer, because that would be the next major equity section for the entire tourism industry. – priority for tax policy. Priority two: In Austria, we must finally ensure that not only foreign capital, but also interest on equity can be depreciated. We are not far apart in this question, that will be necessary. These are the things you have to do to get in the right direction. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] I would You really like to ask in my ministry and present these new figures to you, as they are apparently not perceived by the public. I would like to stress: It's all detectable. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e13843	Mr Kiermaier has also been mentioned on the floor. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e13865	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The first sentence of the explanations and general remarks of the Government template states that around 99.8% of Austrian entrepreneurs are SMEs, i.e. small and medium-sized enterprises, which, as has already been said, contribute more or less to the growth of the Austrian economy and thus bear the main burden. But it's about to list a number of problems. It has already been argued that, above all, the heavy loads are mentioned under legal regulations. I do not think it hurts anyone, even us, to be self-critical and to explore everything in order to determine what we mandates in this House can do to prevent this evil. I think that would be very important. A stand by me is – I want to bring it back today –: The craftsman belongs in his workshop, the merchant in his shop and the innkeeper in the restaurant and all three not necessarily in the office. – This is an old wisdom. The administrative burden is simply too high. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: More and less workshops, less and less innhouses!]] – I only have a speaking time of 4 minutes, my colleague, I have no time to deal with your call. Ladies and gentlemen! It is also the issue of quality of life for debate. A medium-sized or larger company may delegate its administrative work to employees. In small enterprises, the entrepreneur has to do everything himself, which is the practice, in the evening and on the rest day and so on. This, of course, means a strong impairment of quality of life. This work takes about ten hours a day for most businesses, while in the host there is much more. A six-day week is a matter of course for them. Ladies and gentlemen! There was a lot of talk about the founding wave. I have to say that many young people are thinking for a long time about whether they should succeed. Often it's easier to win someone else for it because it doesn't know how it often happens in a family business. I do not want to be black-painted now, but I just want to put things to the stand. The Federal Minister once said that it would be very important to provide know-how, i.e. consultation, with advertising and so on. In my opinion, aid for self-help is also a very important matter. The capital base has already been mentioned. There is absolutely a need for reform. I can only join these demands. But then there was another word. Today, Dr. Haider spoke about the Austrian hotel- and tourism-treuhand GesmbH and the BÜRGES and meant that you only go to the banks if you are a marod. – Ladies and gentlemen! I can't stop that. The ERP credit, the older among us a term, this form of credit has existed since 1947, has been handled by this bank for about 50 years, in very good, skillful and professional form. If this bank did not exist, many businesses that are not with God would not be where they are today. I can only give you an example. I built 1977, around 5 million Schilling – that was a lot of money in 1977. [[Abg. Böhacker: How big was the equity ratio?]] As much as I need, otherwise I wouldn't have gotten the credit, dear colleague. Because in the terms of such a credit it is required. [[Abg. Böhacker: I just want to know because the Minister said that the gastronomy plants have so little equity!]] I had one. [[Abg. Böhacker: Look, you see!]] Well, of course. However, the loan was necessary because the equity ceiling alone would not have been sufficient for this construction project, and after ten years it was paid off. Now I just want to say: If there had been no such credit, many companies would not have been able to carry out such and similar construction projects. [[Abg. Böhacker: What year was that?]] That was from 1977 to 1987. Ladies and gentlemen! One should be careful, as I said, with such statements, because these institutions really do not deserve it. On this occasion, I would like to thank both banks for the services they provide in the sense of the economy, and I believe that they should be removed from such hips. I think it would be better not to do that.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e13953	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e13975	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This SME Funding Act improves access to risk capital. That is out of question, and that is also the reason why we will give our approval to this draft law. No improvement, on the other hand, occurs in the area of equity education, as claimed by colleagues Puttinger, for example. In your reply, Mr Federal Minister, you have mentioned that you do not understand the possibility of 100 per cent of investments in the first year. [[Federal Minister Dr. Farnleitner: As a tourism strategy!]] I believe that it would be in principle superior to providing investment with a corresponding write-down in the first year, not only in tourism but also in the economic sector as a whole, but also in other businesses. This is supposed to be a cannibal provision, Minister. Investments will then be made, and there will be jobs. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The framework conditions, very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen, in fact – despite this law – remain almost as bad. You know, Minister of State: The revenue in the tourism sector fell by 11.42 percent from 1996 to 1997 – at least if you believe in the "Economic Sheet", which was published on 5 July 1996. September... [[Federal Minister Dr. Farnleitner: These are the nights, not the turnover! Excuse me!]] That's only conditionally correct. The tourism report, Mr Bundesminister, states that from 1996 to 1997 there would be an increase in revenue of 2.5 percent. However, this also includes leisure expenses, so also the Schnitzel on Sunday. This has been done, or you have done, to make the most of the statistics; the statistics have been saved, so to speak. As you have addressed the area of investment in tourism: Some of them are already celebrating developments in 1998, an increase in investment activity by 25 percent compared to the previous year. The fact is - and this will be very conscious - that in the years 1996 and 1997 investments decreased from 11.6 billion to 5 billion schilling. Of this most likely low level of growth of 25 percent, as I believe, it is still not very substantial or very important, and in fact it is not yet done to improve the situation in the tourism sector. It is precisely the appropriate framework to be created. There are many demands from the liberals, but you are obviously not prepared to implement them. Once again, the removal of the tourist tax of the municipalities would be called the creation of conditions, so that the establishment of tourism companies becomes easier, a abolition of the drinking tax – although the board does so, the signatures then shift into the drawer –, a reduction in the additional wage costs, an examination of new laws also on tourism ability and, as I think, the withdrawal of the fiscal desire of the state as a whole. I just call it a keyword, and that is: fair taxes – as we have presented it. I should also like to ask you to get into the debate on this and to involve it seriously in the debate on the tax reform of 2000.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e14029	Mr Böhacker has also been mentioned on the floor. Voluntary time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e14051	Mr President. Mr Federal Minister, you will probably suspect that I am Their negative opinion on the 100 percent depreciation of investments in the first year of acquisition is not shared. And I'd like to explain that too. For the first time, this emergency depreciation provided for in the tax reduction model of the liberals is not a duty in the first year, but an option. Secondly, there is no capacity expansion for an investment for a long time, because there is also investment to improve quality. You will certainly know tax law as well as I do and know that such quality improvement investments must also be activated and, in the most favourable case, be written down over the course of ten years. [[Abg. Haigermoser: You can't say that!]] It would also be a major improvement in the tourism sector if these investments could be depreciated in the first year of the purchase. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! They are not only ministers of tourism, but also ministers of the economy. [[Abg. Haigermoser: He has few skills!]] That is why it is not only a matter of industry, as Mr Peter has done. Mr Peter! Take off the tourist glasses and look at the economic situation! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Peter.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Nothing! Nothing! We're talking about something else!]] There are many businesses, many industries that should invest most urgently – without creating an overcapacity – but cannot, because the tax environment is simply too bad. Federal Minister! They meant that most hoteliers had started with too little equity. – Mr Kiermaier has just proved the opposite. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Farnleitner.]] This is something which is always said in the People's mouth, namely that in Austria, under this Federal Government, one comes to a small asset if one has previously had a large one. – This suggests that these companies are likely to have had the corresponding equity over and over again. Another point, Mr Minister, is the red tape that is going to be overburdened. I believe that we agree, and it also shows all the surveys in business circles that bureaucracy is the biggest obstacle to the development of Austrian companies. There is – again! – hardly a survey in which this is not confirmed. Only keyword-like: Where are the simplifications in the field of occupational wage calculations? Who's doing the pay bill, right in the gastronomy? – The host, when the last guest went and the first breakfast guest is not yet there. That is inhuman and inconceivable! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Create She finally – together with the Minister of Finance – the appropriate framework conditions! Where are the package guidelines for micro- and micro-enterprises? It is not reasonable for hosts to keep their records today after being blocked. [[Abg. Parnigoni: In Fortaleza he certainly does not do that!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: You would be a good host...!]] After all, the Minister of Finance says he would be willing. He has the regulatory authority in § 17. But the chambers oppose it, because they want to have a package that brings tax reliefs – and not packs that reduce red tape. Nevertheless, I ask you to: Get active to finally relieve small and medium-sized businesses of bureaucracy!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e14183	Mr Marolt has also been mentioned on the floor. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e14204	Mr President. Minister! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Today, the SME law meets a demand from us liberals. On behalf of our group, I would like to say that we are very proud of the fact that our strong demand in this direction, namely to provide emergency aid to tourism, is now getting a basis. But when, ladies and gentlemen, are really effective measures taken, which the tourism industry puts on its own feet for years? I do not share the view of Mr Parnigoni or of Mr Puttinger, who, not only today but also in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, felt that this liability and promotion measure would ensure the lack of capital in the tourism sector. – It’s far from that! I am of the opinion that only with a general reform based on the flat tax model and additional improvements in terms of operating conditions can it be possible to ensure a long-term survival of the small and medium-sized economy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Call the SPÖ:Aha! The flat tax!]] [[Mr Parnigoni and Mr Tichy-Schreder.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Only with such a measure will there be a strengthening of the equity ratio in addition to a fair income tax and, for example, a reduction in additional labour costs and many other facilitations for the economy. It will not be enough if a tax reform is announced by this government, in which, on the one hand, the reduction of additional wage costs by 2 percentage points, I say, is announced, but at the same time the energy for the economy – and not only for the economy, but also for the weak in society – is to be immensely expensive. Let us not imagine – and that, Minister Farnleitner, I also say in your direction – that the survival of the tourism industry is in the long run secured by taking over liability! The belief that with the rescue and resurgence of a drowning person – and the economy looks like this – he can be pushed back into the water just because one is mistaken in the opinion that the person can already swim is wrong: The one who will perish! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Take the fate of the tourism industry seriously! Today, I am giving the EIA the opportunity to present those points – or at least one of those points – which they announced in a survey for tourism a few days ago as "10 points of the EIA", namely that point which I brought here in the House a month ago, to give the consent. [[Abg. Oils: Ah!]] I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! Today we will see the honesty, including the honesty of Mr Puttinger, who, like Mr Farnleitner, was present at this press conference... – Yes, but when presenting these 10 points, I assume that you were present. [[Abg. Parnigoni: It has already been voted 17 times!]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Farnleitner.]] I hope that, after having announced its position with a total of 20 points, the ÖVP will decide at least one point that the government will not cost any schilling, but that it will make it easier for the economy, namely point 16 from its own 20 points: "new time-to-hour arrangements for host gardens". - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e14302	The motion for a resolution which has just been read is properly tabled, duly supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Ing. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party to the European Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e14327	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! There's no question: SMEs support is necessary for the self-capitalised tourism society, including in the form of liabilities. But having to do this with a promotion law shows with all clarity the helplessness of Austrian economic policy. Federal Minister! They only return to businesses in the form of loans and liabilities what you have previously taken away from them in an infinitely long list of taxes, taxes and other taxes. This creates dependence – but no equity. However, the problem of farms is the lack of equity, and in the tourism sector this is to a disastrous extent the case. They do not have a reasonable overall tourism concept. That's not just me, it's also a lot of experts. But you also have no reasonable approach to the future development of all small and medium-sized enterprises in our country. They do not put in place any structural measures necessary to ensure the location of these establishments, which have almost 90 percent of the employees. Knowing through a study of the European Union It is quite clear that small and medium-sized enterprises have a 2 per cent disadvantage over international firms in terms of foreign loans. Where, Mr Minister, do I ask you, is the proposal that is intended to make this inequality even more even? This is certainly not to be compensated for by promotions. That is why I also ask you, Minister of State: Where, then, can only be seen in the approach to your strategic orientation in terms of protecting these small and medium-sized enterprises from damage, especially in the case of Easter enlargement, which is so vehemently demanded by your ÖVP? The problem of rural development will then be quite an infinite one. Federal Minister! It is simply not clear that this has failed your economic policy, otherwise there would be models for structural reforms, for economic location assurance in Austria; there would be a presentation of what the follow-up costs of all newly introduced laws for administration, citizens and business would be; there would be a clear presentation of a forward-looking technology policy; and fourthly, there would certainly be a concept of how and in what form the number of tasks of the State can be reduced and thus a narrowing of the administration possible. This would ultimately be an essential condition for reducing the tax and tax rate, and that would have to be in the interests of all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e14370	Mr Farnleitner has now been reported to speak. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e14391	Mr President. High house! We should say that we have to stop and help businesses with such terms as "promoting", "tax reduction" and, and, and, and,." – The most important thing in a market economy, ladies and gentlemen, is that there are enough profitable consumers. If they don't exist, the best dealer has lost his business. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and SPÖ as well as the Abg. May. Peter.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: We have about 100 percent tax...!]] Let me just say that, because Mr Nußbaumer is never listening to me, but perhaps he is listening to me today. The second point: You need a big enough market. Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Böhacker: We are taxed about 100 percent if we have enough customers!]] Well, you can keep your flat tax! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: This is a "level" of a government policy!]] Now listen to me: So there's a need for market growth. Over decades, too many entrepreneurs have been trained in Austria – since the end of the monarchy – who have all emigrated. Too many technicians have been trained to emigrate. We trained tourists until a few years ago... – Listen [[Interlocutory calls to the liberals]] Just give me a moment, and then explain it to me! We've been big in the world, but we haven't found a place at home. Ergo, we have played market expansion, joined the European Union. Our exports are approaching the 800 billion schilling limit. The number of exporters has more than tripled. Small businesses live in larger markets. [[Abg. Böhacker: 1 million Austrians live at the poverty line!]] Those who live only for the next 20 kilometers are just the less. [[Abg. Böhacker: 1 million Austrians live at the poverty line! That's the result!]] Listen to me! – These are three important things once. The fourth point – also for you, because you know yourself in businesses – is: It was important for these little ones who are active in the nearby markets to ensure that they are not victims of undue monetary risks – hence the great euro progress. Again: In particular, small and medium-sized enterprises are those which have gained the greatest competitiveness from the eastern enlargement in cooperation. I am not saying that there is a need to do something on the tax side. I made this clear first. I have pointed out that we can do a lot in the area of debureaucratisation. Let me give you an example that you certainly haven't read: My house has recently reduced the number of companies that had to fill out the production statistics from 240 000 to 40 000 and a sub-statistical from 40 000 to 4000. If that's not a step! One cannot always repeat the same complaints if one does not know where to lie. If we look around in international benchmarking both in tourism and in SMEs, we note that Austria is far better than any other sport that can be imagined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e14511	Thank you very much, Minister of State. No one has been reported in the word, so the debate is closed. There is no final word on the part of the rapporteur. We are now entering the voting procedure, and I ask the honourable Members to take their place each time. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and its title and receipt in 1475 of the supplements. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Brauneder gives the bell sign.]] We are in the voting procedure! I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This has been adopted unanimously. We shall now proceed to the third reading. If you want to give the draft law the approval at third reading, I would ask for a sign to this effect. – This, too, is done unanimously. I notice: The draft law was adopted at third reading. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Marolt and Mr Comrades on the extension of the holding of host gardens. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. 4. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (1518 of the Supplements): Federal Act amending the Law on the Employment of Disabled Persons and the Pre-financing of Disabled Workers (1543 of the Supplements) 5. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 734/A (E) by Mr Theresia Haidlmayr and Mr Comrades on the increase in the tax on compensation under the Employment Insurance Act (1544 of the Supplements) 6. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 894/A by Dr Volker Kier and Comrades on a Federal Act amending the Law on the Employment of Disabled Persons (1545 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e14622	I now call Agenda items 4 to 6. The debate is under one. No oral reporting was requested, and we are therefore going into the debate immediately. First speaker is Mrs. Dr. Partik-Pablé. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e14649	Ladies and gentlemen! I have read the following in a disability magazine: "The feeling of being important to society or pursuing meaningful activities is also of utmost importance for disabled people." – It is actually a banality that has been written down there. But one is always wondering how little this need to be important, a position, an activity, is satisfied, how few disabled people have the opportunity to find a job. Almost 38 000 people are disabled and unemployed in Austria. The most serious thing is that this number has increased enormously, by 10,000 within three years. This must be borne in mind once! The situation in Vienna is particularly acute, where disability has increased more than "normal" unemployment. We know that about 240 000 people are unemployed in general, with an expert from the Economic Research Institute saying that he estimates that 600,000 people are actually unemployed. However, many are not registered as unemployed at the employment office because they have given up any hope of finding a job. I am convinced that the number of people with disabilities is even greater because they are already excluded from being accepted in the labour market from the outset. And that's a very sad thing. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Whether the amendment we are considering today on the protection of termination is really a relief for the disabled, and whether, because of these changes, companies are recruiting more disabled people, I dare to doubt, and that is because it is in reality only an adjustment to the previous Judicature. There has been nothing new created by the fact that the protection of termination only takes place after three months of employment, but, as has been said, an adjustment has been made, and no motivation has been created for entrepreneurs to recruit more disabled people. But the motivation would be so important, ladies and gentlemen, because 28 000 duties are not occupied. These are 41 percent of those jobs that should be reserved for the disabled. This means that entrepreneurs prefer to pay rather than hire an disabled person. I see all of this as a bit of a private business, with Ah and Krach, because we know that under increased competitive pressure there are also greater demands on employees. However, I do not see at all that fewer people are admitted in the public sector than should be included under the law. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The public hand does not comply with its duty of recruitment – a sad and shocking fact as well. In Vienna, for example – Mr. Guggenberger, please write Get this up! – the municipality meets only 75 percent of its employment requirements. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Guggenberger]] That means 1 600 disabled places are open! In this context, it really surprises me that Mr Rieder has tried, without interruption, to justify why the disabled would misuse their care allowance and why he should or would not want to bind the care allowance to certain criteria, but not at all to ensure that 1 600 disabled persons are not employed. That really surprises me! Instead of suspecting abuse, where there is no reason at all, he should rather make sure that 1,600 disabled people are recruited in the area of the municipality of Vienna. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Hostasch! I'm here to ask you to speak to your party friend Rieder. Tell him that you yourself are constantly being asked by the disabled to provide them with a job – because I am convinced that you are reaching as many requests as I am, or probably even more, because you have more opportunities – and that Vienna, in particular, would have the opportunity to help many disabled people to work and thus to have a good life. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Another example is the Ministry of Education – and now I am addressing the Austrian People's Party: The Ministry of Education is a negative "spitzenreiter" in those non-occupied posts, but should be employed under the Law on the Employment of Disabled Persons. The Ministry of Education has the highest non-compliance rate! Finally, we are at the point where, for example, we have done quite well in schools, only: A teacher must not be disabled! Under the Teaching Act, the teacher must be physically appropriate. A wheelchair driver is "not suitable". He can still be so good at teaching, but he must not be a teacher! But I think that would be very important. Students could link important social experiences to having a disabled teacher. There are 1 165 plan posts open. Mrs Rauch-Kallat has only now received an order, the Golden Merit Sign, for the care of the disabled. There would be an important point of approach for them to enforce something for the disabled in the classroom. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We do not want to deal with the fact that the situation in the public service continues to be the same, and we believe that if each department had to carry the compensation tax allowance itself and not the Minister of Finance carries it globally for all Ministries, it could be more willing to recruit more disabled people. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This would affect the Ministry of Science, but also the Minister of the Interior, who repeatedly says he cannot employ executive officials who are disabled. I know, however, many young, powerful executives who sit at the phone and only make connections, record the protocols or the like. There would be a need for action for the Minister of the Interior. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I do not think it is a good idea at all, ladies and gentlemen, that: They have removed the premium and thus started a criminal expedition against those entrepreneurs who already comply with the disabled, although they would not be obliged to do so. I mean, you should at last motivate – and not punish those who are good, who already fulfil their duty or even oversupply!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e14789	The motion for a resolution which has just been read has been properly tabled, is supported accordingly and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Guggenberger. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e14814	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yesterday was the international "Day of Disabled People", and today we decide a change of law, with which the employees of the Federal Social Offices have better, more and more effective opportunities to support disabled people in their integration into working life. If Mrs. Collaborative Partik-Pablé – rightly – has listed some of the local authorities who are very busy with the recruitment of disabled people, I would also not like to mention the good side of the medal: For example, in the Federal Minister's office, in the social sector, this obligation of employment is not only fulfilled, but by far over-fulfilment. In the social resort, four times as many disabled people are employed as the law provides. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] That is also to be mentioned! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: She's also supposed to be with Rieder!]] It is one of the positive aspects of this novel that it will no longer be possible in the future for the Federation, the countries and the municipalities to be satisfied with a more favourable number of obligations for them. It was not easy to convince the countries and communities of this change. However, we have succeeded in doing so, and above all, the Federal Minister, and this will be a strong impetus towards more disabled workers in the world of work. And to do so is to congratulate her without letup! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Some of the local authorities are there where the socialists are at the corner!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me another sentence on termination protection: The protection of termination is suspended in the employment of disabled persons during the first three months of employment. This is a measure on which the works councils can say yes, without reservation, as we know from various letters. With regard to the subsequent period, nothing has changed in terms of termination protection at all: There is neither a deterioration nor a relaxation, but those grounds for termination, which have already emerged from the Judicatur and from the administrative practice, are described in detail and laid down in the law. – That’s it; no more and no less. This is a clarification that will lead to greater transparency, because it will make clear to everyone the reasons under which a termination is possible or under which not. A final sentence – then I have already exhausted the three minutes of speaking time available to me – to the overfill premium. There have been many farms that have collected 715 S per month because they have employed more disabled people. Of course, they were happy to receive these 715 S. But it's just a pocket money – and certainly didn't have the effect you suspect. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: It was a signal!]] Faith You're me! In this regard, I really know that as one who has to comply with this law! This more than 100 million schilling, which we thus save ourselves, will otherwise be able to use in a much better, more effective way to bring more disabled people into employment. Summa summarum: a good law, a good day for disabled people according to the international "Day of Disabled People".
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e14897	Mr Dr Kier has also been mentioned on the floor. Speech time: 20 minutes in total. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e14931	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I can take a short look, and I would like to begin by saying that we will give our approval to the proposal because the amendment to the Law on the Employment of Disabled Persons will in principle bring improvements, although not as we would have wished. However, it is very sad that there was no opportunity at yesterday's meeting of the Committee to discuss in greater detail the Liberal Forum's request for various amendments to the Law on the Employment of Disabled Persons. Mr Guggenberger! The strong impulses you have predicted here today certainly cannot be expected from the current novel that you have presented as a government template! We know that the situation of the disabled in the labour market is disastrous. You know that what you decide today – for which we will also give our approval – will only have painful effects. But after all, Who would refuse pain therapy if he could agree! Real steering effects may: But you do not expect anything serious! For to this end, the law is too antiquated in its core and runs beyond the reality of the labour markets too strongly. I therefore believe that now that at least finally in the public service you have the same figures as in the private sector, you are considering the next step we have proposed: If the disability rate is not reached in the public service, the posts must be bound and must not be occupied otherwise – except in individual cases, proof that the appropriate possibility does not exist. For if the public service is punished solely by compensation taxes, so to speak, if the right pocket is put in the left pocket, because it is always public funds, then it doesn't really work. I mean, public institutions only learn when they really feel actions, and public institutions would really feel it when you bind posts. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Mrs Silhavy! For if the public authorities have to pay compensation taxes which we have previously given them in the form of taxes, then this may be unpleasant for the budget execution in a particular place, but not really noticeable! Therefore, my opinion remains true on this point, and we will continue to represent it. This innovation is a step forward, but not the end of the discussion to improve the opportunities for unemployed people. Now I do not want to break my promise that I will be brief, therefore only: We agree with this amendment, but we still believe that much more remains to be done than is now largely decided. Calculate with further requests from the Liberals! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e14984	Mrs Steibl is now speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e15005	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If Mrs Partik-Pablé and also Mr Kier said that the public service did not meet these requirements, I can only say: The country of Styria and the city of Graz meet this quota at 100 percent. I think you have to say that too! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That's right!]] I do not want to say that the integration of disabled people into the labour market is not one of the most important tasks of our society and will remain in the future. To this end, I would like to point out that, in this context - and this was formulated yesterday in the Committee, very clearly and beautifully - we also need to consider the definition of 'improvement'. This term should be more precisely analysed. There is, where appropriate, another name: "People with Handikap." [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: How disabled people are described is probably the least problem!]] – This is certainly one of the lower problems, but it is important. I mean, you have to ask very well: Who's disabled? – I believe that we too are sometimes disabled! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] If it gets close on the labour market, it usually affects those who do not have it easily in life anyway. And the number of disabled people – you mentioned this, I don't want to repeat it – has really increased blatantly. With the new regulation of the Law on the Employment of Disabled Persons, their integration is now extended or the positive disability policy of the ÖVP – and I think that Gottfried Feurstein has also contributed a lot to this – is a further step forward, and that is to be welcomed. I do not think it is necessary to list everything now. I would just like to say a few very important points: It is to be welcomed that it has succeeded in introducing the model of work assistance, which has proved to be very successful. The non-invoicing of apprentices into the number of employees is also a very important point. Furthermore, the reorganisation of derogations for certain economic sectors and their withdrawal for local authorities, the withdrawal of premiums for over-fulfilment of employment and also the protection of termination are also important points. I think these steps will bring us a lot further. All of this is not only a crack, it is an important rail for disabled people to operate, but it is also very positive for the businesses themselves. In my speech there is also a protected job, and I know what that means for both sides. This should be taken into account clearly! Preventive measures are also positive: To date, funding has only been made available in the following years. It's about taking care of yourself. New criteria for assessing the degree of disability have also been developed. All in all, this novel of the law on the introduction of the disabled certainly means a timely adaptation. We are happy to agree to this amendment. We know that we must continue to work.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e15066	Mr Ollinger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e15096	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The draft for this innovation is in the form of an explanation that the problem is currently the high unemployment of disabled people. I think we all agree on this point. Unfortunately, there is nothing in the draft to read about the problems behind it. One reason for this is that a good part of the jobs to be occupied are not covered by the disabled. Secondly, it would probably be better to address the problem with an increase in the compensation tax, because, thirdly, I am quite sure that many, many businesses, unfortunately very many in the public or semi-public sector, will not take their obligation to recruit disabled people seriously – whether this is the city of Vienna or the social security of the industrial economy, I would like to share it evenly, or whether it is the red or black banking sector or whether it is the Chambers of Commerce who have to pay significant compensatory taxes, or also a bit of the ÖGB. [[Abg. May. Guggenberger: The ÖGB will not!]] In 1996, there were still some schillings that the ÖGB had to pay! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Let's not argue about it! [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Let's just say the truth!]] Unfortunately, there are also enough holdings left in the Social Democratic Reichshalf! The city of Vienna would also have the function of being exemplary in this area. In the past you were proud of the fact that the city of Vienna actually fulfilled this function. Now she's not going to do this anymore. But be it! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Guggenberger.]] It does not matter, Mr Guggenberger, whether we now agree that the compensatory tax should be set on the average wage, as our proposal provides, or whether we come to another mode: In any event, the compensatory tax should be increased considerably in order to in fact satisfy the lack of undertaking obligations in the public sector. There are certainly good reasons to also discuss the compensation tax. However, we must not allow the disabled to be held responsible for their lack of working capacity or for the fact that they are unable to work and cannot be mediated in the context of the debate on the definition of the protection of termination. I mean, this novelle actually brings some, although not very significant, yet positive progress. I see a problem in the definition of "advanced disabled". In spite of the apparent reliefs for mentally and mentally handicapped people, it is because the definition of "favourable disabled" is based on the concept of economic efficiency, of course it is extremely difficult for these groups to ever get through this threshold. Although theoretical possibilities have been opened up, at the same time it is not very easy for mentally and mentally handicapped people to actually reach this border. There is a lot to be said about the fact that one is committed to such boundaries in order to be able to work favourably as a disabled person. There is nothing against the improvements in this context, but there is much against the attitude towards the disabled, which is still being taken in this society, and unfortunately, especially on the part of the economy. The fact that this attitude continues to be reflected in the fact that there were over 37 000 disabled people in 1997 alone, because on the labour market, where the best, the most skilled and the most diligent, the disabled are always among the first groups to fall out. The following note is added: The change of name of the "protected workshops" to "integrated plants" is a label malaise, as long as the integrative plants do not employ normal people, not at a low percentage, but at a significant percentage. [[Abg. May. Guggenberger: That's not true!]] I can calm you down, colleague Guggenberger! Although some of the points in this draft of innovation are not and some of them are poorly solved, we agree with this because it brings some small improvements anyway.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e15183	Mrs Pittermann is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e15204	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The full integration into human society, participation in offers and services and the greatest possible independence is particularly important for disabled people. To my horror, I recently heard in the news what humiliating discriminations are exposed to people with disabilities: For example, a blind man must not be a witness. – You can testify to what you heard! In any case, the barriers created by non-inhibited persons must be removed. The right to work is particularly important for all people. The disabled are compensated for their disability by special use of work, so that the benefits provided by them can often be equal or higher than those provided by non-inhibitors. It is important in this law that the exceptions to the public service be abolished. This is not under high competitive pressure and is therefore also intended to meet the natural social obligations. However, disabled people should not be able to be contract staff only: Rather, Pragmatization must also be open to them. Health examinations before Pragmatizations have to be rejected, because they have not in the past, as seen by the high number of early retirement officials. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and representatives of the Liberal Forum.]] A job for the disabled is important not only for their independent lives, but also for the social development of their environment. There should be no more areas where the disabled do not need to be employed. For example, the hospital area has so far been excluded. – But just a disabled person can feel much more the depressing of a disease than a non-inhibitor! Increased use of work assistants is intended to facilitate the permanent integration into employment. Despite the special protection against termination, which is indispensable to the cause, serious infringements of obligations may be terminated in compliance with all provisions. Similarly, apprentices and nursing and midwives are not counted on the number of employees, which takes into account the wishes of the economy. It is important to ensure the preventive use of these funds in the compensation fund. Since the premiums for over-fulfilment of employment were not efficient, they are no longer paid out. I welcome the EU-compliant concept of "integrated enterprises", as the earlier term "protected workshops" was often used in default. Those who complain bitterly that pregnant women who expect disabled children are allowed to stop this pregnancy should also work for the full integration of disabled people in school, in the workplace and in society. The knowledge of a self-determined, filled life with participation in society for a disabled child will give women the courage to want this child. Putting a child into a world that encounters him unintelligible to enemy is unbearable for many women, on the other hand. The quality of a society is recognized in dealing with its weaker members. We Socialists have always been in favour of the weak. That is why we are voting in favour of these innovations and we promise to continue to use full force in the future for improved living conditions for disabled people.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e15275	Mr Dolinschek is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e15296	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The Federal Government, as Austria's largest service provider, is progressing with a bad example in the Employment of Disabled Persons Act. This has already been explained by my colleague, Mr Partik-Pablé, who is very well aware of these things. In some ministries only half of the disabled are awarded. The Federal Government prefers to pay a discount for the Ministries, and I believe in this context that it would be right for private firms to pay for it themselves, that the Ministries also have to cover this discount payment in the case of non-fulfillment from the budget of their resort itself. The situation is similar with the countries and municipalities. If, in many cases, I consider it excessive in the case of market-economy establishments, if the lack of performance of disabled workers is often argued as an argument, then this cannot be accepted by the local authorities in this way and in any way. I am glad to see this change in the law on the abolition of inequality with regard to the obligation of recruitment between public service and private sector. The equality of public service with the private sector in the field of recruitment will take place within the next four years. As an employment policy, I consider that apprentices are not included in the number of employees in the employment obligation. I also see positively that part-time disabled people are not fully accountable for the required number. This is certainly a relief. But above all, jobs are to be created. The premium payment for over-fulfilment of the employment obligation for the benefit of the disabled or non-institutional service providers is to be abolished. - I don't like it. This measure was justified in the Committee on Social Affairs by the fact that the money is missing and premiums are not co-financed by the EU Social Fund. It is now being examined whether the establishments can receive support in other ways, for example through adaptations, for those measures they take for the disabled. I've already said it: I do not think this is good, because an additional incentive – even if it is not very large – for the recruitment of disabled people is being removed. In my view, integration is very important, especially of favoured disabled people in small businesses, and I believe that integration is particularly fertilizing in small businesses. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! 85 percent of Austrian businesses are small businesses with less than 25 employees. Although these small businesses do not have an employment obligation in this respect, they must also contribute to the protection of the disabled as well as to larger businesses. This protection constitutes an obstacle to the employment of disabled people – and this is seen by them as such – whether the employment obligation only exists with over 25 employees or not, because each service provider can only separate himself from a disabled person with great difficulties. The current regulation is certainly counterproductive. It is now only after three months from the termination of a disabled person that the protection of termination becomes effective. It is a first step in the right direction that is welcome. However, it will only be shown in the future whether this step is sufficient at all. The "life aid" has proposed – and I think this variant is very useful – that the protection of employment does not refer to workers in the future, but to the workplace itself. In my view, this proposal is certainly worthy of discussion. A short while to work assistance: This instrument for special intensive care and advice of people with severe disabilities with a view to ensuring permanent integration into working life is now legislated. I wish the people concerned that this method will work, but I would like to say that this work assistance will only be as good as it has been prepared and will also be accepted.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e15354	Mrs Gatterer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e15376	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Integration into the labour market is particularly important for disabled people. For this is not only the reason for life's content, but also the proof that one is recognized and taken seriously. In this way, there is the possibility of social contacts. Disabled people are given self-esteem and the feeling of not being excluded, and they receive equal opportunities. That is why this amendment to the Law on Disability is necessary. We from the ÖVP welcome this novel. We have been able to observe recently that, not least because of the strained labour market situation, disabled people were often the first to be expelled from the labour market. Therefore, it was important to set new accents. In my view, it is particularly positive that there is now the possibility of a three-month trial period for farms. It is not always an evil intention or a lack of will to prevent businesses from recruiting the disabled, but sometimes the uncertainty in dealing with the disabled. In view of this, the probation period is a valuable innovation for both sides. For the disabled thus have the opportunity to test for themselves whether the workplace in question is the right one for them, whether the work is feasible for them and pleases them. The first step will be to make it easier for employers to stop the disabled once – and also to reduce prejudices. That is why this law is very positive because it creates a positive framework because it guarantees protection for the disabled and helps to reduce barriers to the disabled. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Another key point, namely the equality of public service and private employers, has already been identified. – I think that’s very positive. It is also very positive that apprentices are excluded from this number. For I think we all do not want it to mean: either apprentice or integration. Now both are possible. It is, as has been said, very positive that apprentices and nurses and midwives are excluded from it. To be very positive is also the long-standing project of work assistance. There are new ways to put the promotion, recruitment and care of disadvantaged people on a new basis. I believe that we must ensure that this work assistance is truly extended throughout the country. If the removal of the 715 S over-fulfilment premium means that we have more resources to make positive accents, this measure is certainly to be welcomed by all of us. On the other hand, if we see that the fact that the over-fulfilment premium is no longer paid to the farms results in the reduction of this number, then we must consider that, Mrs Minister. It is also very positive that the disabled have the possibility of opting out, so they can decide not to want to be regarded as a favoured disabled person but as a "normal" worker. I believe that this also supports the self-esteem and self-esteem of the disabled. That is certainly positive. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is also positive that the "protected workshops" are renamed. Not least, some parties have miscredited the term "protected workshops". That is why the new concept of "integrating enterprises" is certainly positive, because this includes the social mission of enterprises to integrate disabled people, but nevertheless do not lose sight of the business objectives. This law is very positive for the ÖVP. It is an important step that more disabled people can be integrated into the labour market in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e15440	Mrs Silhavy is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e15461	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Guggenberger has already mentioned the main key points of this new law in his debate. However, I would like to mention in any case the equality of the public sector with regard to the number of obligations - also in the direction of FPÖ and Mr Kier - as well as the levelling-up of businesses which have so far fallen within the scope of the regulation. I believe that this too is a very important step forward. Mr Oellinger! I'd say, Just stick to the truth, then there is no need for calls! In order to increase the compensation tax: On this point, we agree. However, the wording in the application of the Greens leads the term "balance tax" ad absurdum, as you know exactly. [[Abg. Oillinger: Why?]] We have discussed and justified this in detail in the Committee, and I am very pleased that you will vote in favour of this motion today and that your group will have a different voting attitude from that of the Committee. Mrs. Federal Minister! I am particularly pleased to see the opinion of a group on this draft which has to do with these provisions on a daily basis. I have here a letter from the executive chairman of the disability representative of VOEST-Alpine Group companies at Linz, in which he writes: "With the new regulation of the Law on the Employment of Disabled Persons, the Minister of Social Affairs has succeeded in bringing together two serious issues in the field of the employment of disabled people. On the one hand, the protection of termination for existing service conditions has not been eased and therefore the economy door and gate would have been opened to a great wave of termination. On the other hand, it facilitates the integration of a disabled person into the work process by ensuring that the protection of employment is achieved only after three months and therefore both employers and disabled workers have time to get to know themselves and the new tasks." It goes on to say: "As disabled persons at the VA company's Linz site, this is an important step towards integrating disabled people into the labour market, without only one disabled person at work having to worry about his workplace." On the other hand, I would like to thank you, Mrs Sozialminister, for this representation of the disabled. I think that's the biggest compliment you can get at all! That is why we are very happy to vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e15497	Mrs. Hostasch has now been reported to speak. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e15515	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much for these contributions! It was clear from all your contributions that you will give your approval to this government template and that your support will be enhanced to the considerations and objectives of this government template. I would also like to thank the fact that the debate has already drawn up the key points of this amendment to the Law on the Employment of Disabled Persons and I therefore do not have to address these major changes again. I would just like to refer to the question of work assistance now. We had a very large conference in September in Salzburg in the context of our EU activities, and there was an opportunity to meet with experts from all over Europe who are involved in the disability sector and to take a common look at the various models of the care of the disabled. In doing so, our model of work assistance was fully admirable to all, I would say, because it recognized that this really has a great opportunity to help people with disabilities to integrate into the world of work, and that this is a very suitable model for achieving this goal. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Another indication is that the new legislation provides for special protection to be applied only after three months from the start of the employment relationship: It is absolutely certain that from the first day of work there will be the same care mechanisms and that there will be the same support for employers and also for the disabled, who have so far existed for unannounceable or specially protected service relations from the first day. I would like to comment on the contribution made by Mr Oellinger: Integrative businesses do not have a label gap, but there are real opportunities for the disabled there that they would not otherwise have in the private sector. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You know the situation very well in the integrative plants: I am, honestly, very glad that we can get away from the term "protected workshops" and now, even semantics is important in this area, reorientate ourselves with the term "integrated operation". In practice, this has already been done. That is why, I believe, it is important to understand this. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that if this law is adopted in the House today, another important building block or another important objective of our National Employment Action Plan will be implemented. We certainly offer very many people, who need special attention from us, a new opportunity for their lives.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e15568	Thank you very much, Mrs. Federal Minister. No one is reporting on this. That concludes the debate. There is no final word from the rapporteur. We are now entering the voting procedure, and I therefore ask that the seats be taken. We shall vote separately on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we come to the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the Handicapped Employment Act and the Disability Workshop Pre-financing Act, together with the title and receipt in 1543 of the Supplements. Hiezu has Deputy Mag. The main point is a request for a separate vote. I shall therefore first vote on the parts affected by the request for separate vote and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 1 Z 11 to 13 as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. In the case of your consent, I also ask for an appropriate sign. – The vote will now be taken unanimously. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. If you want to give the draft law the approval at third reading, I would ask for a sign to this effect. – This too is the case with the vote. The draft law was adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Partik-Pablé, Mr Mag. Main and comrades on re-allocation of the compensatory tax to the individual Federal Ministries. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall also vote on the request from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1544 of the supplements. If you want to give the consent, I ask for a sign to be given. – This is the majority. The report has been taken note of. Finally, we are voting on the request from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1545 of the supplements. If you want to do this, I would ask for a sign of it. – This is mostly the case. The report has been taken note of. 7. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (1508 of the Supplements): Federal Act amending the Labour Market Promotion Act (1546 of the Supplements) 8. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government template (1509 of the Supplements): Federal Act amending the Youth Education Security Act (1548 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e15695	I now call on Agenda items 7 and 8 on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are immediately entering the debate. First speaker is Mrs Schaffenrath. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e15722	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The reason why we liberals reject the labour market promotion law regarding artistic mediation is relatively rapid: Once again, they have managed not to change or adapt any single section, including § 18, in such a way that it does not result in an overarching bureaucracy. In principle, I think it is curious that you have not at all brought about a change in these far too rigid provisions in the field of private employment at the same time as this amendment. I think you have to explain what it should be for if the Federal Social Office, as an administrative authority, decides whether business premises are appropriate and therefore other commercial activities in these business areas can also be carried out. I really need to ask you: What should this additional procedure be good for if the commercial authority does in any case initiate a procedure? – I wonder how much confidence you have in your own commercial procedures and in your own commercial authority! In addition, you should also explain why an intermediary must provide proof of additional competence and professional qualifications if the placement of employment conditions is anyway required for a commercial authorisation and a commercial certificate is required. – There really does not have to be an additional stamp from the Federal Social Office everywhere! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is really an example more for your Rules of Procedure and for your attitude to bureaucracy, and precisely for this reason we reject this labour market promotion law and also request a comprehensive, general innovation regarding your private employment placement as soon as possible. We give our consent to the changes in the Youth Training Security Act. It is simply about necessary repairs, and it does not speak precisely for your care when drafting laws if after just a few months such repairs become necessary. It is of course for us that apprentices, who are housed in apprentices' foundations, should receive a free ride as well as all other apprentices. That you – and we have already criticised this in the decision-making process of this law – should also include young people in foundations and in vocational courses which have already fulfilled their schooling requirements before 1997, I also consider it necessary not only for themselves to be self-evident but also as necessary. Make thoughts However, you are concerned about why you cannot fill the promised 4,000 places, and you should also think about why your goal is with 15. In no way can it be observed. – I can assure you – and They all probably know for themselves – that in the federal states, unfortunately, very chaotic conditions exist in the organization of these professional courses! You should really think about why young people don't accept the offer. . I think they recognize better than you do that no forward-looking training is being carried out in this way. You may recognize better than you do that they cannot find a suitable job after completing this apprenticeship fund in the economy. I think these young people are still hoping that a teacher's establishment in their closer surroundings will provide them with an apprenticeship. Hope is low. Because you have refused the economic conditions necessary for the economy, you have refused to reform the vocational training law, you have refused to make the minimum changes to the Youth Employment Act, such as the creation of the opportunity to work until 23:00 in the hospitality industry. And you have also refused to create an effective cost relief, as we have proposed, through a wage and social decoupling, which would also have given you the opportunity to extend the schooling time accordingly, to give the apprentices a more comprehensive supply of education, which they will need so urgently in order to meet the new challenges in the labour market. They have actually missed the opportunity for two years to make a good training system a truly efficient and successful one again. I am sorry, I am particularly sorry for our young people, that you are continuing to push the problems forward rather than actually embarking on real reforms.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e15781	Mrs Reitsamer is also speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e15802	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Schaffenrath, I am very sorry for our young people that you are expressing your support for the need for apprentices to work until 23 o'clock. When we created this Youth Education Security Act, it was limited to school leavers in 1998/99, because we knew that birth-intensive years were pushing on the labour market. There were 2 500 training places in courses and 1 500 training places in foundations. And if we are innovation today, then not because the law is bad, but because it is already a success because there are more than 1,000 places left and no one is seeking a lesson. For if young people want to study or make a different education, they are not intended for this measure. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schaffenrath.]] Mrs. Colleague! I've been listening to you, so please listen to me, too. That is why we are innovation the law, because we have already been successful with it. It is only legitimate to review who could not yet be taught by the school leavers in 1997 or the years before – we have just corrected this yesterday – so that we can also give these people a chance on the labour market. – I think you can only mention this positively. I can only congratulate the Minister on these measures, and we too are quite proud of them. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Feurstein! I'm sorry, but I also want to deal with your press release today. In this case, you again complain that the opening of foundations and courses for measures of teaching did not work out, that we did not say yes to that. You say you can't understand that. . We discussed yesterday and made it clear why: Foundations and courses are intended for young people who are ready for training. On the other hand, for the young people who are neither fit for work nor fit for training but who have to be made to do so, there is a set of measures of the AMS, and this should be used, they should also sell positively and tell young people what opportunities they have!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e15850	Mr Dr. Drinkl, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e15872	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The employment of young people has always been a key concern for us from the Austrian People's Party: Under the motto "give young people a chance" we have started to adapt the framework conditions for the training of young people in order to give firms the opportunity to provide more apprenticeships. For us, dual training has always been at the heart of our efforts by the People's Party, and that will remain the case. Mrs Schaffenrath! I am entirely of your opinion that we should continue to strive in the future to further improve the relevant framework conditions in the interests of apprentices and in the interests of businesses. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] ==References====External links== In June 1998, we implemented proposals from the National Action Plan in order to give those young people a chance that did not get a proper teaching or a proper apprenticeship. We have thus opened the institutes of teaching, foundations and courses for 4,000 young people in Austria. Unfortunately, Mrs Schaffenrath has left, but I would like to say: If today these 4,000 jobs are not fully occupied and we have to seek other ways of taking advantage of them, we should be pleased because this is an indication that our actions were correct and successful, that the Federal Government has made such proposals and we have carried them along properly. The unemployment rate of November was not very satisfactory. We know that. We have seen an increase – probably also due to the bad weather conditions – but we can say a good number: The number of job seekers decreased by one third at the end of November 1998 compared to the previous year. This is a success, and let us not take it from anyone! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Today's request for enlargement – I would like to say that it is not only an improvement, but also an extension – of the Youth Training Security Act has the goal of opening up the measures that we then set out to a wider range of young people. And I am really pleased that it has succeeded in offering these measures to young people who have fulfilled their schooling requirements in 1997 and in the past. I also regret that it has not succeeded – perhaps time was too short, perhaps we have had too little time to discuss it seriously – in the context of these foundations, too, to accommodate less well-equipped school graduates from nature and from their educational level, and I would have liked to have been able to provide the teaching in the framework of the foundations. Unfortunately, that was not possible! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Our vice chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel has recently shaped the statement: Social is what creates work. – I am pleased to be able to offer these measures and opportunities to a further group of young people today. I hope that we can make a really good contribution to the training and employment of young people in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e15942	Mr Gaugg is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e15963	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say to the government paper on the changes to the labour market promotion law and, in particular, to the question of the communication of artists, that it is peculiar: On the part of the government parties, it is repeatedly stressed that our social legislation and our social partners are actually excellent all over the world. – I wonder why we must constantly bring about changes in our legal framework in this regard. If it were, then it would have to be reversed, then changes would have to be made constantly in Brussels in relation to those laws which we have at present. So it doesn't seem that everything is gold that shines. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] And from the debureaucratisation your Federal Chancellor always speaks of, we are far away. The opposite is the case: Instead of a general reduction in regulations and laws in the interests of enforceability and practicability, we are constantly confronted with a wealth of new regulations, laws and measures. It is right to introduce ceilings on mediation, because this is a rather problematic area from the home. It would be appropriate to consider whether it would be more reasonable, since in the wider sense, artists have no working conditions in many areas to bring about a corresponding legal clarification and adjustment, that they are employed in the form of works contracts or are to be regarded as self-employed, because it usually does not result in a permanent working relationship in these engagements. If we are already bringing about changes that bring about an EU approximation, I would like to point out that there is a strong restriction on residence permits for Austrians abroad, for example in Germany. There this 1 000 D mark costs and is valid for three years. I can only say: If we want to have common conditions for the mediation of artists in Europe, there should ultimately also be the same right or the same injustice for all. In this context – and this has already been mentioned by Mr Schaffenrath – it would be necessary to consider a general reform of the private employment agency. And if the placement of workers by private companies is allowed, then the strictest criteria must be applied when it comes to approval, but then not every single authorisation must be subject to the federal stamp obligation again. This would certainly bring better access and support at a time of high unemployment for those looking for jobs; that would be necessary. In the context of the Youth Training Security Act and the apprenticeship-free travel, it is necessary to establish: These regulations will come back to half a year too late, because in fact this should have been decided already in the summer so that these measures can be taken in time. If some believe that the tourism industry would be saved if apprentices were allowed to work in tourism until 23 o'clock, they would be mistaken. This regulation would not save tourism, there are very different measures needed! Just when I hear fellow Drinkl talking emotionally and emotionally about the training and he says: We have a heart for apprentices!, then it becomes clear to me exactly the attitude that the masters of the ÖVP take: In fact, they are not interested in it! In essence, it is only interested in what kind of support an entrepreneur can use. And if these correspond, you can just descend and form an apprentice. – This is the situation we are currently experiencing in our Republic! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Admit yourself to that! For in reality, earlier than there were no promotions or little promotions and more obstacles, more apprentices were recruited because they were needed. Today, therefore, many young people no longer go into teaching because the famous slogan "Careers with Teaching" proves exactly what is happening in practice. A corresponding income after completion of teaching, professional security – except in the public service – and the chance of a secure workplace are not given to an apprentice today. They are pushed around the companies or landed in foundations. That's what I'm asking myself: What is someone to learn today if he is not really desirable in the economy and many companies are waiting for enlargement of the EU today, because they can then make cheap professionals commuting? They would be willing to do so, but they are not willing to train young people accordingly. But that would be necessary in the sense of good economic development!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e16028	Mr Oellinger is also speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e16049	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the Youth Training Security Act, I find it relatively easy because we have already said this on the occasion of the debate on this law: This manko is unexplainable, such a thing should not actually happen. – Now you have repaired it, we take note of it. The next time is perhaps a little faster, not only because the training courses cannot be filled. That would be a fundamental question. Secondly, the Labour Market Promotion Act. Mrs. Federal Minister! The artist communication – we know that – has a rather problematic history in Austria, which also has to do with the artist communication of the ÖGB, which was then taken over by the AMS. It is a chapter that has cost some million schillings. I am also not satisfied with the current version, because, as the Constitutional Service of the Federal Chancellor's Office has stated, the Abs. 4 a very problematic provision is normized: Exceptionally, such a thing as domestic discrimination becomes imaginable. - That's the one point. The second point I consider to be problematic – and I come back to the previous artists’ mediations, so to speak: It is not a new standardisation by this novel, but I think it is a problem that we are here setting out the principle of private commercial mediation, which is also required by the artists to be mediated. I hope that this will not be a school when the issue of private employment – and I suppose we will have to discuss it soon, unfortunately – will be on the tapet. I wouldn't want to. In principle, I do not see this with the artists, although there are certainly artists who have a lot of money and are well communicated, but they are probably using agencies that are hardly included here and may have other media relations. However, for low-income artists, 10 percent of the fee, which is delivered as a commission, is something. Nevertheless: In principle, this novelle should be assessed positively. That is why we agree with it as well as with the Youth Education Security Act, although – and thus the circle – of course the issues of the dual training system are not solved even by the Youth Education Security Act.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e16092	Mr Hums has also been mentioned on the floor. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e16114	Dear ladies! Dear gentlemen! The best possible training and the best possible level of youth employment are not only a concern for young people, but also for the entire population and the whole state. This is also the reason why the government in Austria has been extremely intensive and extremely successful with the social partners in recent times. I think it is recognized everywhere that we have the lowest youth unemployment rate in Austria. Nevertheless, this is not a reason to rest, but an incentive to keep improving, and today we are taking another step. Essentially in dual training, it is natural that there are as many teaching places as possible. This too has been successful. The teaching places in small and medium-sized enterprises are certainly very important. We must not forget, however, that the teaching workshops are also of particular importance, namely the teaching workshops in large firms, whose number of large firms has been greatly reduced in recent years. Therefore, since 1996, apprentices have also been promoted to teaching workshops according to an agreement, then negotiated with Minister of Economic Affairs Farnleitner, as in other companies. I would like to highlight one of these undertakings which is very often criticized. The Austrian Federal Railways are the only large-scale company that has not reduced the number of apprentices in the teaching workshops over the years – certainly with a lot of pressure from the trade union. By the way, in 1996, the employees of the Austrian Federal Railways did not pay any of this salary increase in favour of the apprentices. The maintenance of the teaching facilities was always under pressure from the union and through the use of the staff representative. Since the previous year, apprentices have been divided into two groups: They are part of the apprentices of the Austrian Federal Railways, partly also apprentices of the Austrian Federal Railways, but in the form of a foundation. This foundation is not covered by the provisions of the Youth Training Security Act! It has already been found in the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs that the regulations of the Youth Training Security Act apply only to those projects which are carried out under this Act. These rules do not apply to bodies such as those of the Austrian Federal Railways, which are set up independently of the promotion measures provided for in this Act. Therefore, it is natural that apprentices in the teaching workshops of the Austrian Federal Railways, whether they have a contract with the Austrian Federal Railways or with this Foundation, of course receive the same collective contractual compensation for apprentices. That's clear. Mrs. Federal Minister! I would ask you to inform the Ministry of Economic Affairs. It does not comply with this law – and no law! – that there should be a division here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] One thing, of course, I think would be the ideal situation – which I have also enforced as a staff representative in my previous negotiations; by the way, by the way, my view is limited to that of Mr Kukacka: [[Abg. May. Kukacka: That's good!]] Of course, it would be easiest for the Austrian Federal Railways to take over all these apprentices not via a foundation, but directly as apprentices of the Austrian Federal Railways. [[Demonstratative condolences of Deputies Mag. Kukacka and Mag. Mühlbachler.]] I also believe that the Federal Government as the owner of such large enterprises should not only leave this work, namely pressure to take up apprentices every year, to trade unions. Here, however, the federal government as the owner – there have already been ownership instructions in other areas – should, with a corresponding influence on the company, contribute to the fact that, at least in the next ten years, at the Austrian Federal Railways, no one is lost from the high-quality apprenticeships. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e16161	Mr Dolinschek is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e16183	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! A change in the Youth Training Security Act is certainly necessary, because problems have arisen in the granting of apprenticeship leaves. The measures granted by the Youth Training Security Act are now to be limited not only to participants in courses, to participants in apprenticeships and to school leavers of 1998/99, but also to school leavers of the year 1997. This scheme is retroactive. It seems that the problem of the grant of apprenticeship free rides has not been registered in good time. That's going to be reclaimed now. This law is a temporary measure. In my opinion, this amendment is also useful because young people from a previous course are not excluded from these measures and can also benefit from them. I would point out, however, that legislation has been passed over and over again, especially in recent times, in which essential things will be forgotten, and we must then renew them afterwards. Nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen, it is a good solution and, above all, it will help young people.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e16216	The next speaker is Mrs Sophie Bauer. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e16237	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! With regard to the present government template, which amends the Youth Education Security Act, I would like to say a positive word, which is now also a school leaver of the year 1997 and before that has the chance of a training place. The reasons for this have already been mentioned by Mrs Reitsamer. Another amendment, which I believe is much more important, is the extension of apprenticeship-free travel to apprentices participating in a work foundation or projects. So far, they were excluded from a free ride. Unfortunately, there are also enough cases where it is hardly possible for parents to provide their child with training because they lack the financial resources to do so. The reason for this is sudden unemployment of a parent – or even of both parents – as well as a low income, so that not even the necessary money is available for the use of public transport – of buying a vehicle of its own cannot be the case. If you live in a region where the unemployment rate is very high, especially in rural areas, this is particularly hard for the families concerned. Ladies and gentlemen! Although we live in a time of consumer society, there are many families that have to fight for their existence. Therefore, the extension of apprenticeship-free travel to apprentices participating in a work foundation or project will bring relief, but also equality. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! I am very glad that this government proposal will be adopted today.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e16274	The next speaker is Mr Meisinger. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e16295	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Today, we also deal with the Youth Education Security Act. If Mr Hums gives the best of all here that the best possible training for our youth is just enough, then I must say that the apprenticeships foundations are only the second best way to train young people and that there has been insufficient action to make the offer of apprenticeships more effective and interesting for young people. [[Complaints with the liberals]] Apprenticeships can only be considered as a temporary supplement to teaching until interest in and availability of apprenticeships have normalized. Apprenticeships are to be adapted to apprentices within the meaning of the ASVG and the Family Compensation Act. We think that's good. For the time being, only the years 1998 and 1999 were planned. As demand is not so high, school leavers who have previously completed their schooling can also be contacted. One of the main concerns is that the social reputation of the apprentice, the later worker, or the employee, or even the worker, is raised, so that not only the education is put to the fore. [[Abg. Koppler: Workers!]] [[Abg. Dr. Stippel: The chief souffeur!]] – I don’t want to resort to such bosses because there is better on the market. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In order to make the teaching more attractive, we call for the financial relief of training firms and the improvement towards other establishments that do not train apprentices. Training firms should also be preferred in the case of public contracts. The section teaching and stage model should be introduced to enable a wider range of young people. The rotation principle between several training firms would also be a model to help young people learn more. Proven training companies – and many of them we have – should be particularly promoted. More funding should also be provided for apprentices who are above average. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The teaching profession should become more attractive and the teaching firms should be encouraged to increase apprenticeship status. New, contemporary teaching professions should be offered more and more. This is where the apparatus of the Chambers, the Innings, the Trade Union Confederation is far too slow and the market is not fair. If it is best to have a third fewer job seekers this year than in the previous year, then I have to take out the special position in Upper Austria, where according to the labour market service, the apprenticeship situation has not been distorted, but has intensified. There are 4,2 job seekers, while 3,5 job seekers came to an apprenticeship last year. It is true that it must be a concern for society, but especially for the government and the economy, to provide apprentices with appropriate training if they want to lead specialized work in Austria to further heights.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e16362	Mrs. Hostasch has now been reported to speak. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e16383	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! A brief comment on the question of apprenticeship: In the case of the decision-making of the Youth Training Security Act, it was never questioned that the participants covered by this Act should not be covered by the apprenticeship free ride. In practice, however, there has been legal uncertainty in implementation. It is therefore important to create absolute legal clarity, and I ask that this decision-making process also make this legal clarity for those concerned. I would like to thank Mr Drinkl. I'm like him. I am very glad that we can decide today on the extension of the group concerned, because it has been shown that the offers opened by this law are so comprehensive for the school leavers of 1998 that, in fact, all school leavers of this year have found a suitable opportunity for employment in an apprenticeship fund or in a course and thus there is the opportunity to extend to other years. I believe that this is a great success for our efforts to do everything for our youth, so that it has a good career and thus also a chance of life. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs Schaffenrath! Allow me to say, with all due courtesy – even if it is not in the hall now –: It was claimed that all possibilities for improvements had passed us, nothing would have happened at all. I would like to thank the House for the many things that have happened in the field of youth concerning the vocational training law and in various new teaching professions. We have modernised, we have completed, we have opened up new opportunities. And since Mrs Schaffenrath criticised and said that we would not have removed some kind of youth protection provision, I would like to tell her that I believe that we have acted correctly, because young people in particular need special protection.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e16426	Thank you very much, Mrs. Federal Minister. No one is reported in the word anymore. That concludes the debate. There is also no conclusion from the rapporteurs. We are therefore entering the voting procedure, and I would ask that the seats be taken for this purpose. We shall vote separately on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall vote on the draft federal law amending the labour market promotion law, together with the title and receipt in 1546 of the supplements. In case of your consent, I will ask you for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. If you would also like to give the draft law a third reading, I would also ask for an appropriate sign. – This too is the majority. I notice: The draft law was adopted at third reading. Finally, we come to the vote on the draft federal law amending the Youth Training Security Act, together with the title and receipt in 1548 of the Supplements. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – The consent shall be unanimous. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. If you want to give the draft law a third reading, I would also ask for an appropriate sign. – This is also done in a uniform manner. I notice: The draft law was therefore adopted at third reading. Since we are likely to have another vote in a relatively short time, I agree to point this out. 9. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (1519 of the Supplements): Federal Law on the opening of a service relationship with the European Communities and the withdrawal from such a service relationship (EU Civil Service Insurance Act) and on a change to the Civil Service Service Law 1979, the State Teacher Service Law 1984, the Land and Forestry Law of the State Law on Services 1985 and the Pension Act 1965 (1547 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e16509	We're now on the 9th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are therefore entering the debate. First speaker is Mr Gaugg. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e16539	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The EU Civilian Social Insurance Act is the enforcement of EU law because infringement proceedings have threatened. On the content, it is to be said that the payment procedure is no longer modern due to internationalization and that the law is a clear signal for the three-pillar model. We will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e16573	Mrs Gredler has also been mentioned. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e16594	Mr President. Actually, I didn't want to limit myself, but if you say so, I'll take a short look. Of course, we comply with EU law, or we see the difficulties that there are in terms of the accountability of insurance years for retirement. The problem is that the purchase value is not actuarial, but a return value of 3.5 per cent. This is the basis for the fact that this exercise, which you are doing, is actually very expensive. If we had in Austria the other system, namely that of the subject matter of insurance as an accounting option, we would be much cheaper. A growing problem arises from the existing system. Those people who take mobility seriously and spend a few years in one EU country, then for a few years in another EU country and so on, but nowhere can they get enough years to get a right to a pension at all, will get problems. In principle, however, they are working all the time. These are exciting issues that must be discussed on the one hand at social level, but on the other hand we must be clear that we must change the whole system so that it is not as expensive as it is at the moment. Mrs. Federal Minister! I only regret – now she is busy, but that does not matter, perhaps one can judge it – that even the Constitutional Service has asked for new wording, because this law is so comprehensible and so unclear that it is likely that we will soon need a revision in German. [[Federal Ministers Hostasch talks with one of their employees]] There is a colleague in the ÖVP who is always monitoring this. This is a good example of how to formulate laws so that no one understands them.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e16640	Mr Oellinger is also speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e16662	Ladies and gentlemen! On a meeting day – thank you, Mr Peter – you can probably make two mistakes. [[Abg. May. Peter: Oils, the sixth! The seventh!]] First: There are as many agenda items as we do today in a session day, so that the debate, even if this item is not the most important, is actually not a time and the whole thing is going on like in the hamster wheel. The second possible error can also be noted with regard to this draft law. One pushes so much into a section, so that it is hardly understood. Both mistakes, Mrs Federal Minister, ladies and gentlemen, would be avoidable. Despite the advanced hour, I ask for a thoughtful minute, a contemplative minute. The suggestion to the colleague of the ÖVP has already been made: Fighting the flood of law, especially the fight of the illegitimate flood of law. – This bill would be a good example.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e16697	No one is reporting on this. That concludes the debate. There is no final word from the rapporteur. We therefore come to the vote, and I ask you to take the places. We shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1519 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to give this draft law an appropriate sign. – This is done in a single light. The draft is accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. If you want to give the draft law the approval at third reading, I would ask for a sign to this effect. – This too is done in a single light. I notice: The draft law was therefore adopted at third reading. 10. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 845/A by Dr. Peter Kostelka, Dr. Andreas Khol and comrades on a Federal Act amending the General Social Insurance Act, the Agricultural Social Insurance Act and the Civilian Health and Accident Insurance Act (1549 of the Supplements) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the motion for a resolution (Doc. 967/A) by Dr. Volker Kier and Comrades on a Federal Act amending the General Social Insurance Act, the Agricultural Social Insurance Act and the Civilian Health and Accident Insurance Act (1550 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e16765	We now come to the points 10 and 11 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There is no oral reporting. We are entering the debate. First speaker is Mrs. Dr. Povysil. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e16795	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The subject to be dealt with today, the stuck tooth replacement, is a tiny political issue from the point of view of itself. As we all know, however, it has hit high emotional waves. It is a politically striking issue because a parade example of how big-coalition policies should not be made. Now I ask you: How do the government parties allow negotiations between two negotiators to be negotiated so as to put them in place with certainty? - Well, it's easy: It is said to a negotiator from the beginning that he will anyway get what he wants when the negotiations go into the binsen. - That's the way it was. [[Abg. Koppler: This is the last part of the story!]] For this very reason, this negotiating partner did not have the slightest motivation to lead the negotiations differently than to let them go. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Sometimes I really think that you are selling not only the citizen but also us in this respect for stupid. Second example: How can we clearly adopt our political principles in a joint coalitionary motion? – I tell you: In this K & K.-, Khol-Kostelka resolution request, the clear farewell of both parties to social justice is to be seen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! For the first time, in the social security system which they dominated, the Social Democrats clearly determine the inequality of their insured persons. Or is it not an unequal treatment when only five to 10 percent of the population come into the enjoyment of the stuck tooth replacement in the cheaper variant, namely in the dental ambulatorys? Or: Is it not an unequal treatment if within this 5 to 10 percent only regular customers are allowed – legally defined! –, only persons with certain medical indications, only patients with low income and wealth conditions? Please, ladies and gentlemen, how do you define the term "tribal customers"? How do you check low income and wealth? Do people have to come with an income bill? [[Abg. Koppler: price regulation! That is an essential factor!]] Do they have to show their wealth – this has nothing to do with price regulation – so that they can be viewed there at all? How does the rest of the population – and that is 94 percent of the social security and contributors – add to it, my Ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy to be treated differently in such a way? [[Abg. Reiter: Ask the doctor's chamber!]] – You do the law! Not the doctor's chamber! Then something will be added. There is an internal letter from the Oberösterreichisches Landeskrankenkasse, in which it gives the employees the following instructions. I quote: "Concentrating doesn't mean excluding other patients from our new services and completely losing them. We've never asked for and won't do any proof of income." - Quote. What does that mean? – Of course she treats all patients! That is, before this application becomes law, the institution for which this law is made already clearly calls on its employees to break the law. – Well, this is a great law, ladies and gentlemen, that you have made! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Headmaster.]] In this law, the coalition under social democratic leadership really shows its true face. A balanced medical treatment for the population? - Not at all! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: (in the direction of SPÖ) That's really stupid! An absolute blow! Unusable! Injustice!]] It's just one thing: It is only – and this was, of course, already determined before the treaty negotiations – that it is about extending the area of power of social security. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's it!]] What's very disappointing about this: The ÖVP with its research doctor lobby, as we know it, naturally agrees with this request. [[Abg. Böhacker: Over time!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We liberals finally want clear lines in this health system. We want at last – and this is really very important to me – an honest definition of the extent to which social security is to be paid. We want to see a solid, socially balanced medical care for citizens, but it is also reserved for every citizen to decide what his health is worth. And we want fair conditions of competition. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We shall put forward a motion for a resolution which shall include the following: creation of legally identical framework conditions for dental ambulatorys and contractual doctors, an economic separation of ambulatorys from health insurance providers, equality in advertising bans between established doctors and ambulatorys, cost-effective work of the ambulatorys after exclusion at least in the first three years, free preventive advice of patients in the ambulatorys. And finally – and this is very important in the sense of social justice – we demand a cost grant for all patients and not only for 5 to 10 percent of the population! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Because – and this is the point – if social security offers dental replacement in its own ambulatories, then it must do so on identical terms to its contractual doctors, then this is a duty. It then has to finance it accordingly for all contributors and not for 5 to 10 percent. With this proposal, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democracy, you say goodbye to your principles!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e16948	Mrs Reitsamer is also speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e16969	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, Mrs Povysil has made it very easy: If there's a story to tell – and I'm just focusing on the last page – then the necessary information will be missing here. The history was that according to a point of 55. ASVG-Novelle dental ambulatorys will be allowed to produce a fixed tooth replacement in the future, by 5 500 S. Because a calculation has shown that this is very possible. What was behind it? . I know from my own very sad experience, ladies and gentlemen, that crowns in the past were far too expensive in the doctor's practice. I can tell you: I'm not an ambulatory artist, and I'm not going to be either. So – the main association on the one hand and the medical chamber on the other – that was, of course, the prerequisites – have come together. It was a matter of establishing an "Ambulatory Convention" and a "Legal Agreement". The doctor's chamber or the representatives of the dentists admitted that the crowns were far too expensive. Because something went very fast: If an average of over 8,000 s had been required, a target rate of 6 200 S plus/minus 10 percent was possible. The main association has naturally welcomed this and has committed itself to a number of measures, especially because it is always said that cross-subsidisation is taking place, at full transparency in costs. The doctor’s chamber was required to have five years without extending the treatment chairs, because if you do not have any additional treatment chairs, you can’t treat any more patients. To concentrate on previous ambulatory patients: You're talking so much about the free choice of doctors. If I have a dentist, I want to stay with him! Why should I have to change my dentist because of a stuck tooth replacement, to which I may have developed a certain trust relationship? [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Then it was about the quality aspect in the grant of foreign services. In addition, 30 additional dental offices were required by the medical board, and the main association has approved an increase of 35 million schilling, which is at least plus 10 percent for root treatments, and that is not little. In July the debate was made because the bridge members and the pens had nothing to do with obtaining the approval of the national medical chambers and simply being not enough time for such an overall contract. No more and no less has been said! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: All this is no reason not to make a law that is just!]] Today I know that you actually have the 55. ASVG-Novelle wanted to fall down, with the aim of making the stuck tooth replacement disappear for a long time, if not forever, in the sinking. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But children who have been burned are known to fear the fire. That is why I wanted the party agreement so much and wanted the request to be made before the summer break. And see: Four and a half months more time and no overall contract! So my distrust was justified, ladies and gentlemen. The main association has not gone back a millimeter of what it has offered and what is available in writing if it is also accused in press releases. It's a failure. In the end, it was the overestimated demands. Because the doctor's chamber suddenly wanted 500 million schilling more for the stuck tooth replacement. Please convert this to 2,500 dentists, and compare it to the 600 million schilling, which you will also spend on 1.9 million pensioners! Ladies and gentlemen! There is no obstacle to continuing to work on an overall contract, even if we decide today to do so. In any case, however, we have ensured that the ambulatorys, until such an overall contract comes, are the permanent tooth replacement from 1. The Commission will be able to make a number of amendments to the Treaty on European Union on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union, on the implementation of the Treaty on the Functioning I am still confident that the overall contract will come, but of course only after the medical chamber elections!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e17014	The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier. Do you want to have the speaking time set? - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e17035	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It has already been said a lot about what was very bright. Mr Reitsamer has focused on certain aspects, which, while certainly worthy of discussion, has completely disregarded the central problem, namely that something is now being decided on by you, which means a departure from the patient's claim for compulsory medical assistance. And that means: Social security is giving up! We have to say this very soberly: If, for medical reasons, it is necessary, useful and valuable, I understand today's debate to make fixed dentures, there is a claim from the patients that at least anything, if not everything, is paid for them by their social security fund. That's it! Or it is not necessary medically! – This is the philosophy of social insurance companies. But if you break through this system now, then give up your own claim to ensure the same medical care to all people without any respect of income. And that you push around this fact, I don't think that's elegant at all! Of course, there's an argument why you're doing this. The argument was: It's too expensive. – To understand this argument, I am very well able as a liberal politician. The general argument that something is too expensive, however, sounds strange from your mouth when at the same time you ensure that the too expensive performance can be achieved elsewhere in protected areas, but only for a special client or special patient, namely those already referred to in this debate with the toxic word "tribal customers". [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: regular guests!]] And if the patient becomes a "tribal customer" and is not considered a "tribal patient", I don't like that either, because this is a wrong access to the doctor-patient relationship! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] If Mr Reitsamer has said that it is in line with the principle of free choice of doctor, if one can stay with the doctor who is treated in the ambulatory, even if one can make a fixed tooth replacement – this is apparently a derivative of the free choice of doctors as a reason that the ambulatories are allowed to do so – then I can't even laugh! Because "free choice of doctor" means that I have free choice of doctor at any time and can change the doctor if I want. However, you argue with the constant stay with a dentist and call it "free doctor's choice"! The latter argument also has something for itself; I have been with the same dentist for years. But I know that I can change it at any time and that, with the benefit of my social security institution, I get the same benefits at any other dentist because I am not inclined and willing to employ a dentist who demands more than the health insurance fund replaces him. That's so simple! That's my disposition! And if I met the disposition to go to a dentist who, even in private, demands more, that's also my disposition. Then I'm probably not a social case. But social security should provide the same benefits to all people who depend on it to work. And that's what you're breaking through now! I think you should really consider whether the argument "too expensive" is an argument for not doing it at all. If you say, It's too expensive, so we can't do it now, we have to think of something, we have to negotiate more intelligently, we have to talk to the dentists whether other ways are open in the sense of taking part in costs, because we really can't afford it, then I could say: Well, that's reasonable, that makes sense. However, they bring the argument "too expensive" to form niches in which other privileges are found. For you already know that the ladies and gentlemen of the main association themselves say of themselves: If we don't go to the ambulatories, our insurers might think that we just think we're going to go. – And those who work in the main association are, as we know, by no means the poorest of the poor! That means: The social indicator is not really given here. Therefore, you will regret the argument "too expensive". You are right, but the way you used this argument has exposed you. And it's significant what social insurance companies don't pay otherwise: For example, if you have ever been in a hospice, then you will know that the philosophy of social security providers in the hospices does not pay the day rate necessary there, although that would be only a fraction of what is paid in another stationary institution, for example in an intensive care unit where people are also killed, if I may say it so cynically. In the intensive care unit, however, because it is medically indicated there, in Hospiz, where palliative medicine is operated, they do not really pay: for cost reasons or for what other reasons? – If the cost argument is an argument, then it is very dangerous, because then one could say: This operation is a little too expensive, this is a social insurer, unfortunately we cannot do it. For if it strikes that all are allowed to operate, it will be too expensive. The argument "too expensive" was very, very bad, I wanted to tell you that from this pult with all the clarity. Because you know that there are also dentists who in the free market – as you call it – in the Committee the word "market" in this context yesterday was a very common thing to hear - also deliver this performance by 4 500 s. You'll know that! Ambulatorys will demand 5 500 S for this, will continue to define themselves as non-profit institutions and will continue to benefit from all the tax advantages of being a non-profit institution. You will say: We pay taxes anyway, because our employees who are employed with us pay wage tax. To that end, I say: No, no, no, no, The dentist's assistants, who receive a salary, also pay wage tax. The free established doctor also pays further taxes, but the ambulatory does not pay. This difference is unfair, you should consider too! This is not the way to deal with contractual partners! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dietachmayr.]] I'm not a dentist, and I'm not talking for the dentists either. I am a patient who feels that a false policy of interest is being pursued on his back, and I think you should change that! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e17083	The next speaker is Mr Donabauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e17104	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am interested in social policy and not, like you, Mr Pumberger, just the money! I'm talking about people and not just self-interests like you! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pumberger.]] That's the first one. Secondly, I can imagine that you have major problems today because you do not want to understand that there is a social policy improvement. Because with that, you're incredibly hard! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl.]] It has been negotiated for months, and the law is not against the dentists, nor against the doctor's chamber, nor against anyone else. This law offers the possibility that the people, the citizens who have been treated correctly in the ambulatories to this day, will now also receive a permanent tooth replacement in the ambulatories. We still have a social protection clause in place, so that nothing can overlap. In general, this is a good thing, and I believe that we should respect all those who have tried to do so, the Minister, the Federal Chancellor and the Vice-Chancellor. They have worked for people and not, as you do, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, for their own interests! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I also call you another consideration: Is it more embarrassing for you to make stuck tooth sets in the dental ambulatorys than the dental tourism? Do you prefer that people go to the neighbouring countries to thousands and carry the money out? Mr Kier! There's no tax coming in either! - Look! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Will this change now?]] We want to arrange things correctly in this country, and this has been achieved by this law. We will agree to the law, because we consider it to be a progress, and we will continue our activities in this direction as well.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e17164	The next speaker is Mr Pumberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e17182	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Donabauer, it is really very important that you have a permanent tooth replacement, especially as a politician, for otherwise you are at risk of falling out of your teeth during such a brilliant speech like yours! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Reitsamer, too, does not go to the dental ambulatory – she does not, nor does Mr Koppler. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Copper]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dietachmayr.]] What about my colleague Dietachmayr? – You don’t go to the ambulance either, because you know very well that crown is not crown. In the ambulatories, patients second-class crowns of less quality are missed by less trained doctors! And that's not why you're there! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I say quite clearly to you: Of the approximately 280 dentists in the ambulatories, about 50 percent have an education that is not adequate for the training that our specialists have for dentistry. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Therefore, these dentists may only work under the guidance of an Austrian trained dentist for dentistry. That is why you do not like to go, Mr Donabauer. But I'm telling you: What you want for yourself, you must also approve of your patients! They are the head of a very large social insurance institution. Carriers Therefore, to ensure that the crown is no longer a luxury, it is part of the standard equipment of health care for your patients' teeth, who are compulsorily insured with you, and that this dental crown will finally become a compulsory service of the health insurance! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I'm showing you a little front left missing a cutting tooth. [[the speaker has built the model of a human bite on the speaker’s desk]] This can be replaced by a removable tooth replacement, with a clamping tooth crown. For this, the cash register pays 3,000 S, the above Austrian even pays 4,500 S. However, if the patient decides to have a stuck tooth replacement applied, then the checkout presses and no longer pays big. Then the patient has to pay everything himself. If the cash register were to cover at least the minimum amount of 3 000 s paid for the clamping gear, then we would be satisfied! That would be an obligation of the health insurance fund! Mr Koppler! You are also an old cashier with fat salaries! [[Abg. Koppler: The "old" you can save yourself!]] Where's Member Swimper? – He's not here at all! He's probably first class with the dentist! Mr Donabauer, Mr Dietachmayr, and as you all call it! If you go to your dentist, you can also pay the grant from your checkout, as you should treat it to your patients! Because that's a duty! The 3 000 S, which are now paid for the clamping gear, will be paid as a grant to your patients so that they do not have to go to the ambulatorys as a second-class patient within the framework of a starting two-class medicine, where part of the dentists are less trained and our patients are not adequately cared for! The established medicine has priority! – This is also said by the district health insurance fund of Vorarlberg!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e17261	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e17279	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the fact that the internal debate has been around the permanent tooth replacement for almost a year now, today's debate is rather modest in its reasoning grounds. I believe that both sides ignore essential things. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl.]] – No, it will not be demanding, but rather short! The social security fund's side still overlooks the fact that the permanent tooth replacement is not its solution, but the perspective of the cash registers remains in the prosthetics. And that's a significant problem. On this point, Mr Pumberger is not so wrong: If prosthetic benefits are favoured by the cash registers and the permanent tooth replacement is clearly disadvantaged, this clearly has steering effect, although the tightening tooth replacement from the health point of view would be the better solution. On the other hand – and I am now with the dentists – it should not be overlooked that the dentists belong not only to those professional groups in Austria who reach the highest incomes, but also to the examination of a tax advisor in the 1960s or 1970s. Unfortunately, this is also a fact. Therefore, in the debate on costs – and this is also led by the dentists, and in my opinion with the wrong arguments – it should not be mentioned that it is not a professional group that it is necessary, just as Mr Reitsamer described, to send out improvements in the form of salary increases through better fees for other services, such as root treatments, with a total fee of 500 million schilling. This is not the right perspective! But what I miss on both sides is a health perspective, namely a serious discussion of what one can afford and, if one is at the same time aware that it is a better performance if the permanent tooth replacement is promoted. I assume that this is undisputed, and if that is undisputed, then we should be able to move in this direction and, of course, ask the question of the cost which is not easy. Because as simple as individual doctors do that they want to demand a fixed performance, similar to prosthetic dentures, it is not. That would be too simple! We could also learn something from the example of the Federal Republic of Germany and the very negative experience in this area! It will or wouldn't be a simple solution. But so far I can only recognize that the internal debate is not interested in health solutions, but rather in a relatively unproductive hack, which has lasted over a year and has caused one to assume that there is little room in internal policy outside the crown. In this context, it is embarrassing that this has not been about health policy and actually not about performance improvement. I would like to say something to the ambulatories: I do not think that we should do anything about this, Mrs Federal Minister. It is, of course, a modest progress that the ambulators can now offer this service at a rate. However, many of those for whom this regulation has been created are presented with the alternative to have a relatively good tooth replacement in a foreign agglomeration or a foreign dental handler – at only half of the cost as in the ambulatory – to continue to drive to Hungary or to another country, because it is cheaper first and second, health policy is also better suited. This is a problem which should not be concealed during this debate.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e17338	The next speaker is Mrs Gredler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e17356	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to relativize a number of points which, in my opinion, are very important. I'm a dentist, and I know what I'm talking about. The first question I ask you is: There are 16 different crowns. What do you mean? What will be awarded 5 500 s now? I have a whole palette in my ordination: I start far below 5 000 S, offer a whole range and of course also have higher tariffs than 5 500 S, but including – which is otherwise exclusive – more or less high-quality metals and surveying – which has obviously been missed by some representatives of the Federal Government. Including a provisorium, the counter bite and so on, when you add all of this, you get to quite different price structures from those discussed in the public. In this context, I would like to quote Mr Karl Schiemer, the director of the Vorarlberg County Hospital, or perhaps I should say: Dr. Schiemer, former director of the Vorarlberg County Hospital, because he has declared his resignation out of frustration because of this whole discussion. ==References== December 1998 – in the "Salzburger Nachrichten" one could read this – that the Vorarlberg ambulatorys alone are unable to produce crowns because of lack of doctors. He also doubts that a crown could be produced by 5,500 s. That's what the director of the Vorarlberg district hospital register says. – If the Director has made a calculation in his own field and it has been said that this price is probably not to be kept, and on the other hand he says that he is missing because he is being treated in the "Ambulatorium" in the five-minute cycle, I have to say: I've never made a crown in 5 minutes, not even in 20 minutes! The minimum time per crown is set in my ordination with half an hour, and that is the absolute minimum, since everything has to go smoothly. I really believe that we should agree on the time needed for initial treatment, which is the longest and most difficult and most sensitive phase of the whole treatment, and that further treatment should be started at least 20 minutes. My colleague Kier said that the ambulatorys enjoyed and enjoyed a tax-advanced variant. What is missing to achieve equality is also that doctors can be hired by doctors. This is something we have long called for and improved the situation: Opening hours could be extended, which would lead to an improvement in the situation, of course, in order to meet the patient. We lack that, and that would be our wish! I allow myself to use a comparison to present the situation to you a little plastic: Close your eyes and imagine the Federal Government buying the Hotel Imperial and say: Of course, there are many people who want to be very well accommodated. Let's offer the rooms around 400 s! – Here you will – oh wonder! – notice the effect this has on all other hotels. For private hotels, this would mean a disaster. And what will my colleagues do if they are financially ill? – Then they will be the first to release staff! And what staff will they release first? – Women in part-time employment, because this is always the first one. And I mean, it's unfortunate that women have to do this! I think that's bad! Mr Koppler! You said it was a price regulation. [[Abg. Koppler: Also!]] Then you make a law in which you define a tooth crown precisely and say at which price this is to be offered. Then I wouldn't have a problem! I have no problem with treating the needy so that they can afford it. I offer financing models and meet corresponding agreements with patients who even make payments to me for several years so that they can make better provision. These remain beyond the enjoyment of the regulation you have now made. I need to send these needy patients away now. [[Abg. Rider: Why do you have to send them away?]] Because they are not treated the same as patients in need in ambulatories. Because they won't get these subsidized prices, and I don't think that's all right! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nicer.]] Mrs Reitsamer! Don't spend more money on prophylaxis! That might be an approach, and we should all make fewer crowns. Give money where the need arises, namely for the disabled who have to beg, that they may get a few more diapers because they have once had diarrhea! In such a case, however, they even have to go to the head doctor to get a permit. These are things that really need to be tackled – but not against a certain background, which in principle only serves one thing, namely to intervene as quickly and violently as possible in a professional group in order to destabilise them. It wouldn't hurt the dentists, but I can also tell you why it's not bad for them: because the quality of the treatment is so high and so good, because there are enough variants and because we deal with the people and talk to them. In an ambulatory where the patients are finished in the five-minute cycle, it will probably not be possible! Mr Koppler! I deeply regret that we all have to finance your teeth in the ambulatory!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e17411	The next speaker is Mr Dietachmayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e17432	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the speech, Dr. Pumberger has made his professional colleagues working in the ambulatories very bad. - I mean, that's not all right! Even if you spoke here, Dr. Pumberger, with a tooth prosthesis in your hand, your speech was rather toothless. Remember that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The General Social Insurance Act requires the local health telephone to ensure adequate, appropriate and necessary health care. However, the same law so far prohibits the production of dental ambulatorys of the local health phone, stuck tooth replacement, i.e. bridges and crowns, cheaply. In recent years, medicine has made great progress in the field of dental maintenance and dental replacement. However, the price to be paid in Austria for fixed tooth replacement, i.e. for crowns and bridges, is enormously high and does not maintain price comparisons with neighbouring countries. For this reason, tooth tourism has also risen enormously in recent years, especially in Hungary and the Czech Republic, but not only in these countries, but also in Germany – Dr. Leiner has mentioned even in a meeting that many Salzburgers go to the nearby Freilassing to make a permanent tooth replacement at much lower prices than in Salzburg. Ladies and gentlemen! However, cheap crowns from the former Eastern countries are not only economic, but above all health-politically worrying. I would particularly like to point out a study by the Graz University Hospital, which found that 86 percent of patients with low-cost crowns have suffered in some cases severe damage in the area of gum and pine bone, and a low-Austrian study shows that tooth tourism averages approximately 25,000 to 30 000 S per patient. – Not least for reasons of economic and health policy, we therefore advocate that this law be amended and that permanent tooth replacement can also be made in ambulatories. However, I would like to add the following: The calculation of the local health telephone for the so-called blending-metal ceramic crown is based on a full cost calculation, which takes all actual costs into account. This includes not only the personnel, materials, equipment, maintenance and cleaning costs, as well as real estate and handling costs, but also a generous calculatorial scope of 20 percent for equipment and other costs. So this means the end of a march that has been repeated in some newspaper reports and also statements by the doctor's chamber. So two days ago, the board of doctors claimed that the cash nambulatorys offered crowns under the indicative price, the rest could shoot the general public! – That is incorrect, and I can prove it to you. The Oberösterreichisches Gebietskrankenkasse has commissioned a very renowned institute, namely the law firm Leitner & Leitner, auditors, tax consultants and business consultants to check this cost calculation. It concludes in its report that in 1996 the dental ambulatorys of the Upper Austrian Regional Hospital Telephone generated a positive result of 4.5 million schilling, and with the crowns – listen carefully! – Leitner & Leitner also comes at an average cost-effective price of 5 472 S. That's why a price of 5 500 s is all right! Finally, a few words about Mr Kier, who spoke of a false policy of interest. He probably does not know the opinion of the public, for only in Upper Austria 123,000 people have spontaneously signed that they are in the ambulatory for the immediate production of stuck tooth replacement! And last but not least, I can tell you that in Upper Austria ten free dental posts cannot be occupied because no trained dentists apply for these places or for these places. That's why, I think, we're right with this law novel.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e17494	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Chief. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e17515	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! First of all, I would like to make the following request from the Freedom Party: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e17570	Mr President, I should like to thank you Is it "at least cost-effective" or "cost-effective" under point 3 as you read it?
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e17586	Point three?- Oh, my God! [[President Dr. Fischer: At least?]] Cost-covering billing!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e17615	Mr President, I should like to thank you I just want to make it clear: In the text before me, it says in point four: "Teeth ambulatorys must cover at least costs in the next three years under these conditions..." You just... [[Abg. May. Main: At least! Yes!]] Is "at least" correct? [[Abg. May. Main: Yes!]] Good. - I would like to continue.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e17658	So I want to continue now. What are we talking about? – First, we are concerned with fair competition, second, equal opportunities for both ambulatories and established doctors, thirdly, with the security of all compulsory social security insurers, that there is no transfer payments within the area of ambulatories, which are not usable for all patients, and fourthly with regard to the introduction of an advisory activity by social security, which we have missed for many years. Mr Koppler! As my follow-up speaker, I am sure you will be right in saying that many patients who get offers for stuck tooth replacements or expensive prostheses are actually overwhelmed to judge these offers. I believe that it would be a service for me as a compulsory insured person, which should actually offer my insurance, namely to advise me to draw my attention to the wide range stated in terms of consumer protection in the event of a permanent tooth replacement! Mrs Gredler has just mentioned the 14 different variants she offers. There are also other smaller forms of play of these variants, which may mean significant additional or lower costs and which are partly difficult to assess for cosmetic reasons, partly due to the metal alloys. On this question, I would like to have appropriate advice and therefore also a hint for the patient how he can act cost-consciously and make better use of the offer in the appropriate form. I also wish that the emergency and weekend services can at last be seen not only by the established doctors, but also by the ambulators, because, if only two dentists are available in a whole federal country, it is often very difficult for the disabled to perceive the appropriate possibilities as soon as they are not available in their environment. In my opinion, there are also two variants for the entire problem area of the cash offices. Mr Dietachmayr said there were no applications in Upper Austria for 30 registered posts. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: Ten!]] With us in Carinthia, it's the other way round. There is a desire from 58 municipalities for a specialist office, of which 30 for dental workers! For none there is an approval by the Kärntner Landeskrankenkasse. One can see, therefore, that there are very different and, in some cases, very restrictive positions from the Federal State to the Federal Republic. I would also like to relativize the number of dental handlers. In the next two years, about 1,400 new dental handlers will enter the Austrian market, and it is therefore also understandable to me that the standing representative of the doctors is already addressing this in advance. The Carinthian elections have clearly proved that those graduates who make their dental training only now are very likely to think about where they can accommodate, what opportunities they have for an expensive training, which the taxpayer has financed at least 120 000 S per semester, on the market and whether they will receive a practice in the future. I also think that that fixed-cost contribution, which, as Mr Pumberger has already mentioned, is only paid for the dental clamps today, is actually a matter of course. Medically, it is undisputed that the stuck tooth replacement is standard today, no cosmetics and no luxury. That is why what we have formulated last, namely that "talk treatment and dental replacement according to the state of medical science" will be compulsory, should also be of course for social security. If it becomes a compulsory service, one can of course talk to the contracting parties, but also here in Parliament about the extent to which it makes sense to introduce self retention. Even with glasses and other healing aids, there are self-holds that have not been discussed for a long time. I believe that even in the area of tooth replacement such restraints would be quite acceptable. The alternative would be to implement the Danish or Finnish models, which are already in the discussion until 22, 25. All dental replacements, including orthopaedic orthopaedic orthodontics, are paid in years of life, but each person must then self-responsiblely carry out the continuation of this basic benefit paid to him by the society through health insurance. In the Nordic states of Denmark and Finland, this system has clearly and clearly improved dental health over the last 20 years. In my opinion, therefore, Mr Kostelka, Mr Khol, has not yet spoken the last word. I also believe that it is simply and simply unconstitutional to keep the socially weak, with appropriate control mechanisms. Although there are two constitutional experts on this request as an applicant, I do not think that the wording is constitutional, nor will it keep it. Professor Pernthaler has also expressed himself in a similar opinion. In any case, we will see what the courts will say about it, since the Chamber of Directors has already announced that it will take the legal course in the event that the draft is adopted today. I therefore believe that the topic of the tooth has not yet been completed, but it will become a problem sometime after a court decision. I hope that some of our suggestions in this area will perhaps be implemented in the interests of patients and dental health.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e17697	The motion for a resolution tabled by the Head of Parliament is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Koppler has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e17721	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Pumberger, I have already told you during your speech that I have been a patient of dental ambulatorys since "everlasting" times, and I can now inform you that I am very pleased with the treatment that will be given to me there. I reject it, Mr Pumberger, that you are discriminating and disqualifying employees of dental ambulatorys. The employees of these ambulances have not deserved this! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs Gredler! I accept your offer that I will receive a voucher from you for the treatment of my teeth. [[Abg. Gaugg: Put them out and show them to us!]] So I'll be in the next time. Your patient can be and compare how the quality is with you and how the quality of the dental ambulators is. I would very much like to inform the House of the outcome. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Inconspicuous, aggressive and partly under the belt line are the reactions of the doctors' representatives to the current development around the stuck tooth replacement from cash desks. I am very sorry that these negotiations have failed, and I hope that the doors have not yet been closed, that the negotiations will resume after the election of the doctor's chamber and lead to reasonable results. Then we may find that we were in no way excited. As a member of the national executive of the union in Upper Austria, I have also initiated an update to this problem. And it is clear – and I have always thought about it in the discussions, but I did not know it so well – that the lobby of dentists is actually to be found among the liberals. This debate shows very precisely where the lobby of the dentists sits, namely on this side there. [[The speaker points towards the banks of the liberals.]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Gaugg: I'll show you all the red dentists!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Our committee chairman has already pointed out the last demands of the doctors during these negotiations, and I would like to repeat these demands because very few Members were present at this time. The demand of doctors in the last phase was as follows: 500 million schillings more, then you can imagine new achievements! That would be 200 000 s more per dentist each year! In view of the fact that the single payment for pensioners is a total of 600 million schilling, this claim is adventurous! High house! In Upper Austria alone, more than 122 000 people have spoken out with their signature for the production of fixed tooth replacement in ambulatories, and this demand, ladies and gentlemen, has been decided unanimously in all the bodies with the votes of all parties. I am already curious about the argumentation that you will have with your employees' representatives in the near future. [[Abg. Scheibner: Who has an emergency?]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to thank the Federal Minister and our committee chairman for the commitment that led to this decision, on behalf of the socially weak, to this law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e17819	The Federal Minister is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e17841	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Like Mr Koppler, I too would like to express my regret at the fact that the two negotiators are up to 30 years old. No agreement was reached in November. I will leave it to you, however, if a negotiator leaves it on 27 July. November a press conference announced with the title "The Crown Conflict After the Negotiations Fail". – And the three days before the date set by Parliament, 30. November! At this press conference, it was also announced: Should policy open up the ambulatorys at the beginning of 1999, it will be decided in the next few days whether the relevant legal provisions will be challenged before the European Court of Justice because of competition concerns before ordinary courts, because of constitutional illegality before the Constitutional Court and because of EU reluctance. At the same time, it is announced through the media that this challenge will definitely be made. I now wonder how seriously the effort can be appreciated to really come to a contract and to reach a common negotiated outcome with a partner, as defined by the legislator, with clear framework conditions! Dear ladies and gentlemen! As an eternal optimist, I still hope that, as soon as a partner is re-contracted, he will succeed, yet to conclude an overall agreement that will bring about an improvement in the present offer in an orderly and comprehensive form for all parties involved, but especially for patients.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e17877	No one is reporting on this. The debate is therefore closed. We shall proceed to the vote, which will be taken separately between the two Committees. Firstly, we shall proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1549 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this draft law in 1549 of the Supplements to give a sign of approval. – This was decided by a majority in second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I should like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who support the proposal, i.e. the draft law, also at third reading, express this by means of a sign. . I note that the proposal was adopted by a majority in third reading. In this context, we shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Members. Main and comrades concerning the fair reorganisation of the framework conditions for the provision of dental services. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution by Mr Magn. The main thing is to have a sign on this matter. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Finally, we are voting on the request from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1550 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this to give a sign in this regard. - That's the majority. This report has been taken note of by a majority. 12. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 943/A by Annemarie Reitsamer, Dr. Gottfried Feurstein and comrades concerning Social Rights Amendment Act 1998 – SRAG 1998 (1551 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e17954	We're on the 12th. Agenda item. There is no need for reporting. I am the first speaker to give the floor to Mr Dr Kier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e17982	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The agenda item to be discussed is about the adjustment of pensions. I can say very briefly to you, as on each of these occasions, from this place: As long as you do not make use of the possibility of achieving social staggering by introducing appropriate bandwidths and thus ensuring the reliability of the pension adjustments, we will not agree to these proposals for so long. - First of all. Secondly, If, in the light of the last two or three years, in the light of the not really successful pension reform, you are in the light of the dramatic increasing poverty in old age, in the light of the fact that the social status of women is usually still marked by the fact that they do not have an independent insurance in old age, if you do not think more of what you are presenting to us here, if you are not even willing to enter into a discussion about whether or not the basic insurance of old age could be used to fight poverty massively and thus achieve a quantum leap, although you know that your pension promises, as far as the higher pensions are concerned, cannot be kept in the perspective and that the number of compensation recipients will be forced to increase, because you have made minor incomes due to pension insurance and thus generate pensions that will in no way be suitable for the period of life if you do not understand that you yourself do something that is indifferent and unfair, and do not allow yourself to be so long-term calls for such long. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e18015	The next speaker is Mr Seidinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e18036	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! We did not expect Mr Kier to agree to this adjustment, and he did not expect us to agree, because we simply cannot afford to do so in Austria in this situation and at that time. It is necessary to recognize the dimensions of what it is all about before such demands are made. You can only do such a thing if you're in opposition. If you are willing to take responsibility for this state, you cannot be sure! Ladies and gentlemen! Let me say a few thoughts about the savings package, the 1997 pension reform and its results and funding. We are still ready to do so and, I believe, well advised not only to deal with the charging procedure but to stick to it. All experiences with the capital coverage process in other countries were very different in nature, and the models from Switzerland and various other countries can absolutely not inspire me. However, I must say to this commitment to the payment procedure that there is always a discussion in the media and in the public at all, in which the one side claims that the older generation deceives the younger, and vice versa that the younger generation simply absorbs all the resources from the point of view of the older. I do not think that is the case. Moreover, we can only need everything, not a dispute between younger and older people, because we live in a society in which there are already three or four generations in a row. I do not want to go into what amount the monthly ASVG-pension is. However, it can already be said that the amount of the pension increased from the amount of 1984, which represents 100 per cent, to 149.7 per cent last year and the amount of the compensation allowance to about 185 per cent. So what has always been demanded is to improve the weak in our society. At the end of the pension: It has negotiated with the Federal Government the Management Committee of the Senior Education Council. The offer was 1.5 percent, which means a total of 4.17 billion schilling. Thus, the representatives of our associations did not agree and were finally able to negotiate 600 million schillings precisely for the compensation recipients and for smaller and medium pensions, so that if you look at the average and draw a summary under the line, you cannot use it for that 1.5 percent, but in fact it is 1.7 percent. However, I do not hide that expectations have been greater. We will certainly find a lot of understanding with the pensioners, but there will be no jubilant storms. However, I believe that it can be said that in this form and in this situation, we have achieved an acceptable conclusion on both sides of the government and on the part of the older generation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e18080	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e18101	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I don't want to do it as simple as my colleague Seidinger. It is not only about the difference between the roles of the opposition and the government parties that we stand for a fundamental guarantee. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in the Federal Republic of Germany, the current Minister for Labour and Social Affairs Riester, formerly secretary of the IG-Metall Trade Union, called for exactly that for his country, namely a basic guarantee with the maintenance of the social security system. Mr Seidinger! If you had made the effort to look closely at our pension model, you would know that it is in principle feasible. I can see some progress in what you have been trying to do with this pension adjustment in page areas. For example, and I consider this to be quite positive, at the meeting of several pensions, the allowance, which is 300 S, limited with just these 300 S, otherwise the allowance is 3.5 percent. This means that, indirectly, there is also a clear start in the government to establish that there are a number of people – and this is described directly – who have several pensions and with these pensions obtain a pension scheme that can also exceed, as it were, limits. - That's a problem. Ladies and gentlemen! The other problem is that you have abandoned the basic pension increase. Mr Hostasch knows from her time in the trade union that there are not only possibilities of percentage wage increases, but also the simple amount of the base, but also mixing systems. That would have been feasible in the pension allowance! This could also be limited to the top. This would be an interesting variant – less for the ASVG and the other accompanying laws, but especially for the civil servants' pensions. However, it is obvious that we have forgotten that. Nevertheless: After not increasing and stagnating the compensatory allowance rate in recent years, I would think that it would have been appropriate to make a clearer increase in the compensatory allowance rate and in the categories of persons in this category than is possible by a percentage increase at all. It would therefore have been our proposal to develop a mixed form here, if not a uniform amount in order to increase it. It would have been more sensible and socially just for those who receive only very low pensions, because this is not just about the compensation beneficiaries. [[Abg. Seidinger: Stay with the compensation allowances! These were increased from 5 500 S to 8 000 S from 1991 to 1995!]] Thank you, Mr Seidinger, for the koreferat! But since 1995 nothing has been increased, and there is a problem that even 7 800 S if you deduct the health insurance contribution are relatively few. We may agree that at 7 500 p.m. it would be appropriate – not only for those with 7 500 s, but also for those with 8,000 s, of which there are very many, and also for those with 9 000 s – to make the increase more apparent. That would have been a step in the right direction, a step we would have wished for, which has long been demanded and which you are not ready to go. That would be at least one step more towards social justice!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e18140	The next speaker was Mr Feurstein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e18161	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We decided yesterday in the main committee that pensions generally rise by 1.5%, and today we decide that there are now one-off payments of 600 S and 900 S on the compensatory allowances and a one-time payment of up to 300 S in June. It is true what honourable Member Seidinger said. Nevertheless, pensioners are not entirely satisfied with this scheme. I would also like to remind you that, in the years 1990 to 1994, we have increased the compensation allowances by 500 s each year in the light of this situation. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: At 8.2 percent!]] This was up to 8.2 percent at inflation rates of 3 to 4 percent. Mr Seidinger suggested that we return to this method, which we introduced under Minister Hesoun at the time, which caused a massive execution of the lower incomes among pensioners. Because the 20 years you mentioned were, in fact, the years 1990 to 1994. So it wasn't 20 years! Ladies and gentlemen! We are well advised if in 2000 we do not simply increase all pensions by the same percentage, but when we return to this method and introduce real base amounts. Mr Seidinger! We have now made the mistake that we have not introduced base amounts, but one-off payments. And you know exactly the difference between one-off payments and base amounts. The officials have taken note of it and have achieved that their base amounts have been incorporated into the salary table last year. We have not done so with the pensioners so far, and my request is that we find solutions in 2000 as they did in the first half of the nineties. Then we will again achieve satisfaction with the 2 million pensioners in Austria! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is why we should work together, because I believe that the way this government coalition once took is good and right! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e18203	I call Mr Gaugg. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e18224	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Here it just smells like self- praise! Everything you do is great and unique! [[Abg. Steibl: That's right too!]] However, it is not understandable! However, the two previous speakers, Mr Seidinger and Mr Feurstein, were wise enough to say: The pensioners are not very satisfied. And I'll tell you now why: You are therefore not satisfied because they had to accept massive income losses in previous years due to your missing social policy! That's the point! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Last year the increase was 1.4 percent. Of this, however, only 0.95% remained because there were additional loads. And I'm not talking about the savings package yet. With regard to the savings package, I was always of the opinion that the government will start to save. In reality, however, pensioners need to be saved so that they can afford life at all! This is your form of social policy! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Koppler: Luckily, it's not like that!]] Mr Koppler! I'm not worried about you, even if you're in retirement. You can be sure of that! [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's it!]] Even if the word "basic security" is so disturbing: In reality, the question of pension income in the future is a question of social responsibility. Because if you have more than a small number of employees, part-time workers and similar people through your policy, I wonder how you can ever pay a pension to those people who are 30, 40 years in working life, Mr. Feurstein! But I'm not worried about you either! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If the payment procedure is such a fine establishment by you, I wonder why any cuts must be taken. – Because it is precisely with old methods that in the past have had their right to make no state in the future! This does not mean that everything that used to be bad is bad, but it should be supplemented by new measures. You should not shut up with the new one, otherwise you will be left sometime! I therefore believe that when the pension is paid out, especially for those generations who could not afford to take care of themselves, because they have rebuilt this republic, they should be transferred to pay the base amount in a form that really brings about a significant improvement in the incomes of the under-sectors. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I therefore propose that in the future the pension increases be made in the form that half of the pension amount is paid in percentages and the other half in the pedestal procedure. That would be my wish for you! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I really appeal to you not to completely disappoint that generation that has had great confidence in the policies of your so-called great coalition! Give your heart a swing! Before the next National Council election a sugar will probably appear again somewhere, perhaps in the form of a letter from someone who will promise something that he will not keep. But this time this is certainly not going into!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e18316	Mr Gaugg, have you not deliberately tabled the request? [[Abg. Gaugg: I forgot!]] Mrs Bundesminister spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e18346	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to point out that the Advisory Board on Pension Adjustment has proposed to increase pensions by 1.5% with effect from January 1999. The Pension Advisory Council has thus made a proposal which is clearly above the inflation rate and has also fully exploited the scope for greater adjustment of pensions, as provided for in the legal basis, and I am glad that this increase in pensions, which will bring about a significant improvement in the purchasing power of pensioners, can actually be realized. I am particularly pleased, however, that it has succeeded in taking another 600 million schilling out of the budget, and that under those conditions which have already been discussed, an additional compensation allowance of 900 S or 600 S will be paid by January and a special pension allowance of 3.5% will be paid with the June-pensions or July-pensions, but not more than 300 S. This takes into account precisely the criteria mentioned by some of the ladies and gentlemen, who have already spoken in advance and also here today, and consequently, for the weaker, a stronger increase in their income situation is achieved, especially in 1999. Allow me, Mr Gaugg, to say: I would like to be at your disposal once with my officials to show you what it would be like for those concerned to make your proposals. Then you would see that there are no benefits for those concerned!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e18379	Mr Graf, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e18401	Mr President. Minister! High house! I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I'm asking for your support!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e18449	The application is properly filed and is under negotiation. There is no further statement of words, so we can vote. Firstly, we shall proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1551 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, in 1551, gave their approval to this draft law for a sign on this subject. – This was decided by a majority in second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. I note that the draft law was also adopted by a majority in third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Main and comrades concerning the aliquotation of special payments on retirement. I should like to ask that the honourable Members who have tabled this motion for a resolution be allowed to do so. Mainly agree, give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. This application is therefore rejected. 13. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1480 of the Supplements): Federal Act amending the Financial Balance Act 1997 (1536 of the Supplements) 14. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1517 of the Supplements): Agreement between the Federal Government, the Länder and the Communities on the coordination of the management of the Federal Government, the Länder and the Communities (Austrian Stability Pact) (1539 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e18526	We now come to points 13 and 14 of the agenda. I do not have a wish for reporting. The first speaker was Mr. Ing. Nut trees. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e18554	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On item 13 of the agenda, I would like to say critically that the impact of the Financial Balance Act has not been presented with precise amounts that arise in the coming years per year and federality. – But this would make sense for an assessment. I would also like to repeat the criticism that this law is also retroactive according to point 12(23 para. 3rd entry into force. – This does not exactly serve to build trust! However, my main statements apply to the Stability Pact. In this context, the disregard for law and constitution has become much more blatant. As much as it is desirable to coordinate the budget on the grounds of subsidiarity, it must be criticised that this proposal contains several violations of the basic principles of constitutional law. Professor Brno and Professor Perenthaler speak of a "galopposite change" of the Federal Constitution. In fact, the proposal is contrary to the democratic principle by the delegation of constitutional law-making to executive bodies and to the parliamentary principle by the influence of implementing bodies. It violates the violent principle by creating mixed bodies and the federal principle by intervening in the constitutional autonomy of the countries. – That is to say, it is found all over by constitutional violations. It is also difficult to authorize the municipal and municipal authorities to conclude such contracts, as they are not authorized to act on behalf of all cities and municipalities. Also Article 2 para. 1 C. As an intervention in the constitutional autonomy of the countries, 3 is extremely problematic, because this will also make changes to the constitutions without that in Article 99 para. 2 B-VG requested quorum possible. Under the jurisdiction of Article 15a B-VG, no modification of the competences may be made by Member State agreements pursuant to Article 15a B-VG. To sum up, I would like to say that the objective of coordinating the budgets of the federal, state and local authorities is to be welcomed in principle. In this context, however, it is also appropriate to distribute the permissible deficit ratios and sanctions to the local authorities. To criticise is the entire construction, which is to take another step towards government legislation. It must be rejected in particular that the allocation of the permissible deficit ratios can be changed at any time without involving the legislative entities. As both the underlying Constitutional Act and the agreement on the consultation mechanism were rejected at the time, it is likely that this Stability Pact will also have to be negatively assessed and is therefore rejected by us. The Minister of Finance is not here now. In conclusion, however, I would like to say that I had this impression after the debate in the committee, and I will not let go of this impression either, that the Minister of Finance obviously does not believe in the implementation of this law anyway. He did not want to comment on the possible violations of the Constitution in the Committee, and he said to me that he wanted to give the communities essential points. But on the problem of fixing the 0.3% budget deficit for countries and communities, which is very important, he meant that this was not the case. I mean, the Federal Minister of Finance speculates that this unconstitutional law will not be implemented at all. Because then, of course, the countries and communities would be the victims. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e18603	The next speaker is Mrs Hagenhofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e18624	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Nußbaumer, you know very well that Austria has entered into an obligation towards the European Union in the sense of budgetary discipline and also in the sense of budgetary debt. Since Brussels is not looking for where the deficits lie in the House of Austria, it is only logical for Austria to decide for itself disciplines within the meaning of the Financial Regulation. This includes the present Stability Pact between the federal, state and local authorities, which basically regulates the budget objective of the federal, state and local authorities. [[Abg. Ing. Nutbaumer: But this has not happened within the framework of the Constitution!]] The present government template regulates the budgetary discipline of the individual local authorities and the other, the mutual obligation to provide information on the budgetary process, the medium-term orientation of the budgets and the preparation of the stability programmes, in particular the allocation of deficit quotas and any sanctions between the federal, state and local authorities. [[Abg. Ing. Nutbaumer: That's not the point! It is about the illegality of the Constitution!]] This Stability Pact is the logical consequence of the consultation mechanism, which can only enter into force. This agreement, Mr Nußbaumer, implements a project, which is unique to countries and communities in Europe, namely, that, on essential financial issues, the basis for consultation, information and common forms is being carried out. For the various levels of the local authorities, the agreements mean, of course, that strict budgetary discipline will be necessary, because, of course, a breach of the Maastricht deficit limits, which amount to 2.7% in the Federal Government and 0.3% in the countries and communities, may involve sanctions. In the field of countries, the maximum deficit of 0.3 per cent has been divided by quotas based on population and specific needs. In order to take better account of the constantly changing regional needs in the period, a budgetary maneuvering mass of 10 percent of the respective national or local quotas has been created, so that reserve resources are available. [[Abg. Ing. Nut trees: All this is to be read! That's not the problem!]] Mr Nußbaumer! I've listened to you too, so please listen to me now! It is important that coordination committees be set up at federal and national level in the future, which are responsible for budgeting and for budgetary management and which inform each other of each other. There is a Federal Coordination Committee in which the Federal Government, the Länder, the Municipal Government and the Municipal Government are represented, there is a National Coordination Committee, in which in turn the Landefinanz- und Gemeindeferenten and the Gemeindebund and, of course, the Austrian City Association are represented. [[Abg. Ing. Nut trees: What is a manoeuvring mass? Please explain to me what this is!]] Mr Nußbaumer! If the League comes into play with the European Union in the sense of economical budgetary management, it is necessary, essential and logical to establish rules of play within Austria. [[Abg. Ing. Nutbaumer: But this is not the problem!]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] That is why I would ask all of you, ladies and gentlemen, I am not likely to expect from colleagues from the Freedom Party, that you also agree to this Stability Pact so that the consultation mechanism can enter into force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e18732	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e18754	Mr President. Strangely, the Secretary of State is apparently arrested in important Intergovernmental Conferences. But it is not really much at all, it is only about the financial compensation and corresponding changes that will probably have a meaning for themselves somewhere. However, I believe that this proposal can be significantly improved if we accept the amendment tabled by the Liberal Group, which reads as follows: Additional application of Deputies Mag. Helmut Peter and partners with whom the Government template (1480 of the Supplements): Federal Act amending the 1997 Financial Balance Act, as amended by the Financial Committee Report (1536 of the Supplements), The National Council wants to decide: "The Government Template (1480 of the Supplements): The Federal Act amending the Financial Balance Act 1997 as amended by the Financial Committee Report (1536 of the Supplements) is amended as follows: After Z. ==References====External links== 13 added: ‘ 13. § 24 reads: This federal law expires at the end of the 31st century. 12. 1999 out of power.'" This slim add-on application has a deeper meaning, and it will probably not be hidden to you if you have already read the template. It is about the fact that, if a tax reform is seriously started – as modest as it may be from our point of view, from the Ministry of Finance's point of view, it may be great anyway, but we do not promise much of it – it will be necessary and important that the effects of the tax reform in renegotiations will lead to a financial compensation, because the financial balance is largely dependent on the income taxes where, how, and at what level. On the occasion of a discussion, the Minister of Finance mentioned why it is not intended to make a reform that he cannot make the reform because otherwise the reform will come before the end of the financial compensation. This is an argument that must be taken seriously! We were of the opinion that the reform should come soon and therefore the financial compensation should simply be terminated earlier. This is what we are showing him, but I fear that the coalition parties will not be able to recognize this as such, and that is why they will probably reject our supplementary request. However, in order that they do not agree with this request, they will prove that they are not subject to a genuine tax reform or to a solid reorganisation of the financial conditions between the federal, state and local authorities. That is why you will understand that I cannot agree for this and for other, well-thought-out reasons of your presentation, with which the financial compensation is amended. And I also cannot agree with the Government's proposal on the agreement between the Federal Government, the Länder and the Communities on the coordination of the management of the federal, regional and local government. Why don't we agree? . You know that we had serious constitutional concerns at the time when the foundations were created. And we are only consistent if we do not now agree with a proposal based on a regulation which, in our view, is constitutionally highly questionable. In addition, we believe that the federal states, particularly in connection with the way in which the tax authority is perceived in Austria, were the winners in this game at every stage. They had to manage the expenditure, the revenue had to be contributed to the federal government. In the meantime, they are budgeting partly with surpluses due to the allocations they receive from the Confederation and pretending that their national financial agents would have been as prudent. In fact, they are enjoying positive effects from the financial compensation, and the only merit of those councils was that they did not spend these additional revenue easily. That's why I'm saying: Everything should be renegotiated together, there should be a new financial compensation and a real tax reform. Such a consultation mechanism, as it stands here, is unnecessary. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e18824	The next speaker is Mr Auer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e18845	Mr President. Mrs Bundesminister, you are present for the Federal Minister for Finance! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to deal with the first of the two proposals that we are now discussing, namely financial compensation and the Stability Pact. The European Charter of Local Self-Government in the Federal Law No. In Article 9, Austria also undertakes to provide the local authorities with adequate financial resources for financially weaker local authorities as well as to provide the municipalities with a wide range of financial and developmentable financial systems to ensure their performance. This means, as far as possible, equal living conditions for citizens, whether they live in the city or in the rural area. That was supposed to be possible. However, we are still far away from a real financial compensation, ladies and gentlemen. Therefore, too big and too large differences in financial strength must no longer be accepted: I'm saying this with all the clarity, because it really isn't. Let me give you an example: That municipality, which has the strongest financial strength in Upper Austria, has a head rate of 18 645 S at its own taxes. The weakest Upper Austrian municipality has its own financial power of 6 408 S. The strongest municipality in Vorarlberg has a headrate of 61,883 S and the weakest Vorarlberg municipality has its own financial power of 8 605 S. Ladies and gentlemen! In this respect, it is no longer possible to talk about a financial compensation, especially if the population is crucial to how high the incomes specified by the federal government in the financial compensation. I mean, in this respect, the Federal Minister for Finance needs action. For it was a little bit if he thought in the Committee on Finance that the financial compensation would be on and on its own no internal logic. This is a political solution! That's all right! He said that he would change the financial compensation at any time if the financial compensatory partners were to regulate it and agree on it. Ladies and gentlemen! I therefore urge the Minister of Finance to take measures to ensure that injustices are not repeated, but that a balance is made. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course, there are calls very often, it could and should also ensure that every municipality is located so that local tax can also be paid. – The need to promote settlement projects, I believe, is not to be explained to the local authorities. They know that for themselves, and they're trying to do it. But perhaps it would also be worth considering, in a reform of the financial compensation, whether the rise of a district could, so to speak, be divided into the communities in this district. Then, too, the so-called local competition would be removed for certain municipalities. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is not a question of large, financially strong communities being able to settle farms by offering all kinds of sugars. To finance the motorway and the feeder roads from the general tax pot is not an art. And drinking water is then taken from the more distant rural communities, because in its own area, because of its facilities and because of the density of the settlement, the removal of drinking water is of course not possible. The purpose of the recreation area and the nature reserves is to provide the rural communities, which then make certain rules in terms of the management, settlement policy, land use planning, land planning, and land planning, in order to make it possible to maintain the stock of these protected areas, which are naturally carefully maintained. It is therefore necessary, Federal Minister for Finance – even if you are not present! . that a fundamental reform is taking place in this context, so that those communities which bear the excess burden will also have a real balance and the necessary margin of time. A reasonable compensation is necessary, ladies and gentlemen, and I therefore call on the Federal Minister for Finance and urge him to actually reform and not to continue to commit injustices.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e18913	The supplementary request, which Mr Dr Kier read earlier on to the Financial Balance Act, is properly filed and is under negotiation. Mr Dr. Stummvoll. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e18937	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say, in spite of all the better-knowledged non-recognition of the opposition here, that this agreement between the Federal Government, the States and the Communities, which we call the Stability Pact, is a very important formal and organisational prerequisite for achieving the objectives set by the Maastricht Treaty, which are not only objectives for the federal, regional and local government, a coordination instrument at the federal level and at the national level, ensuring that we really achieve these stability objectives. Ladies and gentlemen! Especially because we have discussed a lot about tax reform in the last few days: We have always stressed from the EIA that we are facing a threefold challenge. This challenge involves not only a tax reform, but, first, a tax reform, second, a continuation of fiscal consolidation and thirdly a financial compensation. – That shows how huge this challenge is! But we are really good at achieving the stability success that we have achieved in recent years. In the previous year, we had a total net deficit ratio of 1.9 percent, while it is true that 0.5 percent of the surplus of the countries and municipalities and 0.1% of the social security surplus. But overall, this is a very nice stability success for the Federation in the sense of our efforts to bring the hard shilling into a hard euro. Ladies and gentlemen! Today's agreement is certainly a mechanism by which we can continue this stability course in the future in the interests of all savers, all investors, all employees and all entrepreneurs!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e18970	The next speaker was Mrs Petrovic. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e18992	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The title "Austrian Stability Pact" alone, I believe, is not what really exists here. The small title "Agreement on the Coordination of Budgetary Management" is probably a little closer to this, and we must ask ourselves very well the question: What causes stability in an economy? Is stability being achieved by coordinating the individual consolidated budgets and dividing deficit ratios, or is stability achieved by choosing long-term and medium-term measures in such a way as to achieve the highest possible economic benefit while minimizing economic costs? There is no mention of the latter at all, and so all the so-called stability measures are always in the direction that, in the case of social, cultural or educational expenditure, there is something to be removed. In this respect, it is not so bad that the Minister of Social Affairs is sitting on the government bank, because this does not allow any other "stability measures" – under the lead marks. The fact that this does not guarantee real stability should in particular be known by the representatives of social democracy. With such stability pacts, you cannot cover measures that cost money in the short term or perhaps in the medium term, but are already worthwhile in the medium to long term, such as better medical care, investments in prevention, for example in occupational medicine. As long as we do not create a real national economic bill that goes beyond the short to maximum medium-term aspect, such pacts do not serve stability but rather social destabilisation. And that's why they're bad! The fact that there were other considerations in the course of the negotiations on this so-called Stability Pact proves the application of the Vorarlberg State Government. The Vorarlberg Government has requested that, in addition to fiscal objectives and measures, employment and social policy objectives and measures be integrated into a Stability Pact. . I believe that if employment and social policy objectives – and I would add to the health policy – are included in such a pact, we could say that we are on the road to a pact that guarantees real stability. But why you approve and tolerate such pacts as this one is not understandable to me, because in this country we know what is appropriate to endanger stability and what is not appropriate to ensure it. One last thing: This pact, of course, also brings with it a certain demise of Parliaments, the Land Days and the National Council, because this pact has a purely executive vote, but not the deliberation of legislative measures that lead in this direction. And from the point of view of the Constitution's system with a priority of legislation, such short-sighted and short-term measures should also be rejected from a green point of view.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e19021	The next speaker is Mr Kröll. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e19043	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! The arguments to be agreed and rejected are exchanged. It was expected that those who do not politically represent the consultation mechanism would not be in favour of the Stability Agreement. I would therefore like to remind you once again that the local authorities and also the countries have called for consultation and that, of course, the Federal Government, as the second part of the whole, also requires stability between all three levels of the local authorities. The Austrian Stability Pact between the Federal Government, the Länder, the Austrian Municipal Government and the Municipal Federation for the Austrian Municipalities is agreed with this Government template in 1517. This will regulate the coordination of the budget between the local authorities, and thus the consultation mechanism adopted will only be based on it. In addition to the information requirement on budgetary coordination, which has already been mentioned by my previous speakers, the deficit ratio of 0.3% of GDP, which is attributable to the countries and communities, is discussed in detail. This means, in clear text, that 0.11% are for countries without Vienna, 0.09% for Vienna as a country and a municipality and 0.10% for all municipalities without Vienna, resulting in a total of 0.30 percent. A total of 10 per cent of this rate, i.e. 0.03 per cent of GDP, is considered to be manoeuvrable, which is at the disposal of countries and communities throughout the country and can be balanced. The Landesfinanzconferencing on the one hand and the Municipal and Municipal Associations on the other, and by virtue of the empowerment law, the Municipal and Municipal Governments with constitutional status are very well called up and are able to join this Pact for the Austrian communities. The agreed quotas are valid for the duration of the financial compensation in force, and I would like to stress that all the partners have a right to have a financial compensation law very likely to apply to the duration of the decision. Because where would we be – especially the communities – if the duration of the financial compensation could be changed unilaterally under time by simple majority of the federal government?- Oh, my God! There is the possibility that the countries or communities within a country will agree to each other's deficit ratios if they do the same again. So there is quite a bit of mobility. Finally, I refer to the important point 5(b) of Article 4 of this agreement, because it, as I think, contains a very important arrangement for the communities. This is: "If the proceeds of an exclusive tax are reduced by a judgment of a highest court, the federal government will create "legal framework conditions... which create as widely as possible a replacement as possible across the country" on appropriate proposals from the local authorities. – This is particularly important because such supreme judicial decisions could also take a deeper role in the financial pact. This Stability Pact, together with the consolidation mechanism, is a viable foundation for the public budgets of the municipalities and the countries together with the federal government, in order to maintain stability in all the budgets in our Austrian Republic in line with our European commitment, and I believe that stability is something that will ultimately and finally benefit everyone! We are therefore happy to agree.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e19089	No further words are available. That concludes the debate. We shall proceed to the vote, which will be taken separately on each request. First of all, we are voting on the draft federal law amending the Financial Balance Act in 1997, including the title and receipt in 1536 of the Supplements. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Mr Peter and Mr Group tabled an additional request. I shall first vote on the supplementary proposal and then on the draft law and the title and receipt. Deputies Mag. Peter and comrades submitted an additional request concerning the insertion of a new paragraph 13 concerning § 24. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this supplementary request, Peter, to give a sign on this point. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. We shall vote on the draft law, its title and its receipt, in the version of the Committee's report 1536 of the Supplements. I should like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who agree give a sign of approval. This was decided by a majority in second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I should like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who want to give their approval to the proposal at third reading should do so. . I note that the proposal was adopted by a majority in third reading. We are now voting on the request of the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the agreement between the Federal Government, the countries and the municipalities on the coordination of the budgetary management of the Federal Government, countries and municipalities, i.e. the Austrian Stability Pact, in accordance with Article 15a B-VG and in 1517 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to grant this approval to be a sign of approval. I note that this Stability Pact has been approved by a majority. We have also done this part of the agenda. 15. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1516 of the Supplements): Poststructural Law Novelle 1998 (1537 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e19166	We're coming to the 15th. Agenda item. There is no need for reporting. Mr Gaugg was the first speaker to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e19194	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! The Federal Act to amend the Poststructural Act seems strange, especially from the perspective that 9 500 employees are to be dismantled. It sounds like hohn when, in 1996, the objective was that Post- and Telekom Austria AG, PTA in short, should be guided by commercial principles. That's where I wonder: How has the company been managed in the years before? Have there been no commercial principles back then? – That’s it! In reality, the post was in trouble because it was constantly undermined by the Federal Government. Overcrowded telephone tariffs have not helped to strengthen the company post, but only to bring budget renewal to the stage. For how else would it have been possible that the post for the payment of salaries to employees would have to make debts and eventually have a debt mountain of 112 billion schilling? [[Abg. Parnigoni: This is the opposite of assets!]] The distributed PTA should be 31st. ==References====External links== However, relatively quickly it has been recognized that this is not feasible under the present conditions. [[Abg. Parnigoni: These have changed a lot!]] This would have led to the economic damage of the PTA and the PTBG. In view of this, I now ask myself: Is it possible to represent that decision as a bankruptcy declaration in 1996 or not? [[Abg. Parnigoni: You certainly can't do that!]] The adoption of a strategic partner is basically positive if it leads to further development in a sub-area. However, the postal service and the postal car service must not stay on the track because the sausage is because there is nothing to be earned. [[Abg. Parnigoni: This is your interpretation!]] I'll tell you what your intention was: They wanted to sell the good pieces and collect shares, but the rest, the postal buses, the parcel service and more, remains. That was your intention! Because if the Federal Government had had a real overall concept for the entire post, it would not have started to fill the company. You could have put the entire company on the market! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gaál.]] That's already done! And now you can't go to the stock exchange because it's exactly what happens that part – telecommunications – is profitable, but you don't know what to do with the rest. This is a statement by the Federal Minister for Finance in the Committee! That's the truth! In reality, the financing of the two other areas has not yet been clarified. When a strategic partner arrived – as it is so beautiful – a public tender has been issued. To that end, I say: If you want to achieve a purchase price for a part of a company today and you are grateful for every offer, then this is one side. However, it could have been much better to negotiate. That this has not happened is all the more surprising to me than in the course of this sale of domestic assets there has also been a mediation fee of at least 54 million schilling. [[Abg. Parnigoni: How do you know?]] I know that because this is common for international transactions! Can't you read? – You will certainly know the article that reports that a certain Mr. Karl Krammer, the ex-Secretary of the ex-Bundeskanzler Vrannitzky, has collected at least 54 million schillings. I would be really interested – and perhaps the Mrs. Federal Minister can listen for a second so that she could ask Mr. Federal Minister for Finance once – how this advisory agreement has ever happened. [[Abg. Parnigoni: What does this have to do with the mail?]] It's 54 million schilling, young man! I know it's not a lot of money for you! [[Abg. Parnigoni: Has Krammer had a contract with the post?]] Nobody's interested in that! 54 million schillings have flown, which the company has received less. That's a fact! [[Abg. Parnigoni: This is typical!]] Now give it a break and listen to it! That would be much more intelligent! It's about a state company that you've led to the dead end! You're with me! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] You ruined post and train with your policy! It would have failed a lot if you listened once! You have ruined post and train to an extent that is unbearable, because the employees have to suffer, but you do not! Because you are a well-known MP and a pragmatic railway driver. [[Abg. Parnigoni: What am I?]] But you don't care about the next generation! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] All this seems to be funny for you! For you it's funny if a certain staple has a solid security of his lifetime, almost a lotto sixer because of his previous contacts! And only that's why he collected at least 54 million schillings. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] You don't care! Nine-and-a-half thousand employees at the post office are all yours! Mainly, you can fish there and create in a tour! Have a little discipline! You're unbearable, really! You're a good man! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] You know what, Mr. Parnigoni? I wish you so much as Mr Krammer that after you leave Parliament you can make your political contacts in such a way that you will receive 54 million Schilling Honors. And then you'll say, I don't care! I'll tell you something else. Their voters, who build single-family houses, buy and rebuild an old house and more, pay proper fees when they sign a purchase contract. On the other hand, the company Post, ruined by you, is going to sign a contract in Zurich. Because that saves the post exactly 272 million schilling! That is to say, it is urgent to recommend to all buyers in Austria that their contracts no longer be signed in Austria in the future, but in Zurich, and you should replace the travel costs! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Give people a free ticket for the railway so that they can sign their contracts in Zurich in the future! – Shame You're for it! They withdraw from the state 272 million schilling, for which the minimum pensioners and the small incomes have to stand straight. But you've been away from these people for a long time!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e19378	The next speaker is Mr Marizzi. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e19400	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! One hour ago, Mr Gaugg, at the debate on pensions, said that it was necessary to change those who were proven otherwise. Mr Gaugg! I can tell you: In 1996, we distributed the company and converted it into our own AG. Secondly, The balance sheets and the success accounts as well as the investments are far above the target. So you can say: That was a target project, and the people of the union and of the entrepreneurship representatives played along. So you can praise this one too! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gaugg.]] For they all worked hard, and this solution was a success of this government at a difficult time. Thirdly, They're talking about 9,000 people. In reality, it concerns 5,500 people who use the social plan. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haider.]] And every good merchant – Mr. Haider, perhaps you should know that – goes to the stock exchange if he sells the company best. Probably... [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Haider.]] There are flowering plants, unlike down there with you, my dear colleague, Haider! In the Committee You are not listening, Mr Gaugg. It was a public tender. UPS and Merrill Lynch have checked this call. And you're talking about a ruined company! [[Intercession with the liberals.]] Mr Krammer was not a consul of the post! You should read that in your article! I don't know what paper you got that from! Maybe from Mickymaus? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gaugg.]] Mr Gaugg! I believe that this privatisation has been one of the greatest privatisations in recent times: 27.2 billion Schilling paid Telecom Italia for it. The Americans applied. And you have to say: With the Italians there is a synergy effect towards Eastern Europe. But you don't seem to understand that! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gaugg.]] Mr Gaugg! I'll tell you: I believe that the new legislation we are adopting today is really good. I know. On the side of the opposition, one has to make it and make it down. But I think... [[Abg. Gaugg: You talk about better knowledge!]] No, no, no, I'm not talking about better knowledge! I believe that it has been ensured that the company can move to the stock exchange flexibly and that flexible privatisation and restructuring steps can be taken. [[Abg. Gaugg: Everything at the expense of the workers!]] Federal Minister Edlinger has told you this for half an hour in the committee, you and colleagues Böhacker! [[Abg. Gaugg: At the post there are two people who benefit from it: Sindelka and Ditz!]] I know you don't like that! If successful things are going on, you'll blow in! I say something to you to conclude, because you are always so happy to spell out. Do you know how to spell PTA? – Potential, technically good and active!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e19518	The next speaker is Mr Firlinger. Mr Kuracka and Mr Peter then come to speak, and then the vote will be taken. The speaking time for Deputies Firlinger is set at 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e19540	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is not long ago, since a respected international newspaper has quoted in connection with a privatisation in Austria: "How not to privatise a bank". – That was in connection with the Creditanstalt-Bankverein. So: How to privatize a bank better not. Similar things could also be applied to Telekom Austria, ladies and gentlemen. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] I remember: Two and a half years ago, when the last poststructural legislation was passed here, a number of precautions were taken, but unfortunately the wrong ones. In fact, one does not have a privatisation process in the law clean... [[Abg. May. Peter: You tell us the right thing now!]] – I said it back then, but you didn’t listen, colleague Peter. That's your problem. [[Abg. May. Peter: Now I listen!]] At that time one could have prepared the company for an orderly stock exchange and an orderly privatisation, but one has fled to Schimären. I can recall how the proposals of many oppositional Members were presented, who meant that the company had to be structured clean first and then one orderly step after another. Minister Klima, then Minister for Finance Climate, but also Postminister Klima, said: I will not allow the post to be smashed. – It was one of his stands that he pulled down a hundred times. And on the record of how many notices there will be, 5 000, 6 000 or even 9 000, he said: Not one! – That was the statement of Mr Klima, ladies and gentlemen at the time. But reality has finally caught up with or overtaken the bad law. You've spread out, but sloppy, and then you've tried to create some kind of structure. Then, as the first step, we distributed the Mobilkom Austria; hardly after the distribution, 25 percent and a share were already going to Telecom Italia. Well, that was the first step. Now comes the second step: breakdown of the fixed network company Telekom Austria; 25 percent plus a share sold to Telecom Italia. Ladies and gentlemen! ==References====External links== Mr Ditz and Mr Sindelka put the signatures under this Treaty in October 1998 in order to save themselves taxes and taxes. The signatures were not even dry – they were still wet – since the Director General of Telecom Italia, Mr. Gian Mario Rossigno, had already been fired, because he had taken over a bit in the course of an international purchase operation. Now, ladies and gentlemen, despite the involvement of Merrill Lynch, others and Mr Krammer, I can ask you: Is that the right partner? – I really have to put this question seriously in the room. You laugh at any people, any involvements, and in the end you always have to have a big question mark. Ladies and gentlemen! I have serious concerns in this regard. This is not a privatisation, because Telecom Italia is a company that has privatized 49 percent of the shares in Italy itself, but it is still largely in the state ownership of the Republic of Austria with a gold share. There is a state company sold to another state company with a package of 25 percent, but the Austrian private investor, who would have liked to buy this paper via the stock exchange, goes out empty, ladies and gentlemen. And we really don't want to say yes to that. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If privatized, then neat and clean and with the participation of the Austrians. Therefore, you will not find our approval for this sloppy and bad law.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e19597	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Kukacka. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e19619	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The novelle to the Poststructural Law is a necessary step in the right direction, namely to more competition, to a slimmer state, to demonopolistization and to more customer orientation of the Austrian Post. We have repeatedly called for this way since the beginning of the privatisation debate at the post office, and we are glad that this innovation is continuing. With this innovation, ladies and gentlemen, what we have repeatedly demanded from the Austrian People's Party and from me since the beginning of this privatisation debate is what has been documented here in several speeches in the High House, namely the division of the post into meaningful business units and also into own independent companies and capital companies. I can still recall the debate on the adoption of the Poststructural Act when the colleagues from the SPÖ defended the PTA as a legal entity, as an overall company that, if at all, should only go to the stock exchange as a whole and must be preserved exclusively as a unit of Telekom, Postbus and Yellow Post as a capital company. I have been attacked by the postal union because of our demand for own business and social forms of organization for the various parts of the post not only once, but often enough. Ladies and gentlemen! Today's novelle proves once again that we were right that we were pioneers and preparers of a development that has prevailed and that now – thank God! – even at the SPÖ, even at their post-union union – does not find approval with great joy, but nevertheless under the pressure of economic constraints and developments that have given us right. Now, the SPÖ also accepts that a separate privatisation of the Telekom sector, regardless of post-bus and yellow mail, will allow for higher privatisation revenues and should therefore also be carried out separately for both areas. The PTA is only to remain as a holding company, including Deutsche Telekom Austria AG to be traded to the stock exchange from the year 2000, and postal service and postal car services are also to be privatized in accordance with relevant privatisation concepts after they have been rehabilitated by appropriate economic measures. This, ladies and gentlemen, has always been our way, and I am glad that we have come a little further on this path today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am also convinced that, as I have repeatedly demanded, as the Social Democrats have always said, it will also come to an own federal bus company. There is no way past the company's reasonable consideration and necessity to extract both the bus service of the post and the bus service of the train, to put them together and to bring them together into its own federal bus company; its own federal bus company, which will then also enter strategic partnerships and be privatized. Only in this way, ladies and gentlemen, can market requirements be met and the many synergies that exist, such as in the parallel transport of public transport and postal services, in joint workshops, in procurement operations and in the use of personnel. I know, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats, many of them, particularly the trade union, are still opposed to this, but this development will come. It is in the logic of economic constraints. It is also good that this development will come because it is in the interest of Austria, in the interest of our economic location and also in the interest of future postal customers.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e19684	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Peter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e19705	Mr President. Mr Kukacka, I simply have to follow your remarks in full. It's rare, but it's my compliment. [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of the ÖVP.]] You see things correctly, and I think you are also showing the right way; therefore, the Liberals' agreement to this bill is in principle. However, we criticise the fact that the period and procedures of privatisation are not described in this draft law. This is left open, but if the ÖVP – apparently you are the driving force in the coalition – continues to pressure, this privatisation will continue. It is a fate to be a free Member, to think of a robber and always a scandal behind every tree. I do not know, Mr Firlinger and Mr Gaugg: Is it not possible for this federal government to do something right? – I think she's doing something right, and we should say: Bravo, keep going! – You can't scandalize everything, that's going to be quite simply fad. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.]] The Telekom Austria should go to the stock exchange very soon, it is stock exchange mature. Technology, especially radio technology, is developing very rapidly. The high investment capacity of Telekom Austria may soon be ballast and no longer asset. Privatisation should progress quickly. In the case of mailboxes: Whether to combine both bus institutions and make a federal bus company out of them, or whether to privatize the two - both public buses and postal buses - and see if one can find a private operator or partner, are different ways to discuss them. But I believe that it is important to find a private economic path there too. The Yellow Post will have greater difficulties in the long term: new data networks, e-mail, fax and new parcel services. We will have to break our heads very strongly about what is going to happen to the post offices in the country. Today, at the beginning of this meeting, we discussed the question of synergies, the partnership of local services centres, where inn and post, close-to-suppliers and post, trafik, lotto point and post meet. I believe that there is a need for some innovative ideas on how to get these postal services in the country in the sense of local services. The future structures of the holding must also be discussed. If the privatisations take place, the PTBG and the PTA remain. Why can't you bring these together with the ÖIAG? – That would be an idea that would certainly be useful. Our criticism of this law concerns essentially Article II in the matter of the Post Operating Constitution Act. Ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy, for the time being: Their action Fairneß cannot stop in front of the public servants. You can't remain credible in the long run if you're right to say: Of course, workers and employees have the same right. – But what about the public servants? Do you want to drag the privileges of postal services now through the Post Company Constitution Act into all subsidiaries? – This may be a crutch to receive the approval of the postal union. But you do not really believe that the postal union does not understand and is not able to learn that it is providing an important and indispensable service in Austria, but only a service like many others? Why, then, the privileged position? – There is no longer any reason for that. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The time of these special situations in our society should quickly end. We Liberals will therefore call for a separate vote on Article II at second reading and reject it in order to document our dissatisfaction. At the third reading, we will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e19776	There is no more word message for this. The debate is closed. There was no need for a conclusion from the rapporteur. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haider.]] We shall now proceed to the vote, and we shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1537 of the supplements. Mr Mag. Peter has just mentioned in his speech his desire for a separate vote. I shall therefore first vote on the legislative body covered by this request and then on the remaining parts which have not yet been agreed. We shall first proceed to the vote on Rule II as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. - That's the majority. This part is generally accepted. We are now voting on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. Whoever agrees to this, I ask for a corresponding sign. - That's the majority. This part of the draft law is largely adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever agrees in third reading may give a sign. – The draft was also adopted by a majority of the third reading. 16. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1476 of the Supplements): 2. Service law Novelle 1998 (1538 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e19844	We're coming to the 16th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. I shall be the first speaker in this debate, Mr Mag. Sweat the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e19871	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I know it's no longer the right time to say too much about the Pannen-Liesl. But what she's been experiencing lately is enough to get her straight behind Minister One. Mr Höchtl also drew attention to the fact that this debate on pipes has not been very happy. With regard to the history of drugs, which has become virulent today, Mrs Gehrer will not necessarily be able to act as ignorant. I cannot imagine that in the Ministry of Education, where she has all the reins in her hands, such important things happen without her knowledge. Similarly, Mr Höchtl, has happened in what is to be decided today; a new regulation of the new regulation is now under pressure from the teachers' union. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Höchtl.]] The black minister has negotiated a little with the black union, and all that they have negotiated has entered into force. It is worth being said: ==References== In September 1998, this law, which is already being brought back into force today, came into force. There is no point in talking about far-sighted policies in this regard! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That was obviously not quite the final conclusion of wisdom. It is a pity, Mr Höchtl, that the opportunity has not been used to deal with the request of the liberals I have recently made in this context. It is a pity that you completely ignore your request, which has a modern, performance-oriented right of service and remuneration. They decide under pressure to sew another flick on a worn pants. We will not participate in this.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e19920	I call Mr Pendl. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e19941	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! This 2. Service law Novelle 1998 is an important and necessary step in the right direction. The introduction of a service card, issues relating to executive and military services, as well as to teachers, are included in this innovation. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I should like to make a few points here. In order to take account of the wild growth in questions of a service card in the sense of data protection, it is necessary to create a legal basis for this. The permitted data, which may be noted on this service card, are listed taxatatively in the law. This means that expressed concerns about uncontrollable data volumes or even personal controls have been taken into account and these restrictions would also apply to electronic media such as magnetic strips or chips. In addition, if there are any necessary requirements or wishes, a regulatory authorisation will be provided for each department. This makes it possible to view this point as well solved. Another important point is the introduction of compensatory measures for special difficulties in nighttime executives. The compensatory measures requested by the Austrian executives are reflected and negotiated by common accord. It can be seen, in particular, that the Members themselves can choose whether to opt for time credits for regeneration or financial compensation. These measures are a final feature of a large executive package and allow for fair treatment of Austrian executives, who undisputedly provide a heavy service for the benefit of the Austrian population. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In the military field, a number of important new arrangements are planned for the local military commanders in particular. With regard to the question of teachers, which has already been strongly discussed in this year and which has also been transported by the media, there are some regulations concerning the remuneration of school events, the care of matura classes, computer workplaces and analogous provisions in the LDG. [[Abg. Smolle: Then nobody should fall through the Matura! By the surcharges!]] Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion, the individual points I mentioned at the outset represent a necessary and important contribution to modern service law. For these reasons, the Socialist Group welcomes this draft law.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e19983	The next speaker is Mrs Schaffenrath. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e20004	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! If you look at the report of the Financial Committee, then you see it going on and on from points 1 to 16 more than just about classifications, allowances, discount hours and other things. For this reason alone, the Liberals reject this novel and in particular the novels to the Civil Service Law and to the State Teacher Service Law. We reject it for reasons of principle. It's not about whether teachers or teachers get the double cost compensation for multi-day school events or not. In view of the amount of this amount, it is nevertheless a negligible area. In any event, we believe that, from this point of view, we have often stressed and repeated enough, that the remuneration system, the service law as a whole is in need of a high degree of reform, and we will no longer be able to carry small repairs on the surface. We consider the current system to be anti-performance. Individual benefits, special involvement of those concerned, especially teachers, are not expected. We also think that the existing system is unfair, because the chances of merit are defined only after the age of service, perhaps even after the possibility of finding various additional services. This, in turn, is very different between the different types of schools. I think that in this system, quite the same benefits are awarded in a very different way. This is particularly evident in the case of these novels when it comes to the payment of the maintenance of computer systems. In my opinion, it is simply not clear why a primary school teacher, because of his classification, should receive less money for the same work in the care of a certain number of computers than a teacher who pursues this activity in an AHS. We also consider this existing system to be bureaucraticly complicated. This is nowhere more evident than the § 61 Wage Act. It is a fact that not even the computer systems can meet these complicated things. Teachers have not even been paid the overtime actually done. We have long – and we repeat this demand here – called for a change to a performance-oriented salary scheme. Finally, a comprehensive job description needs to be started. The constant promises of the past have never been met. It is simply necessary, at last, to stop with this subcontracting system, with these billing hours throughout the area. [[In the case of the Liberal Forum as well as the Abg. Dr Gabriela Moser.]] Only when this job description has been carried out can one also define "extraordinary benefits". In the school sector, the following questions would be asked: How does it look with the support of computer systems? How does it look with special commitment in the field of training during the holiday period? What about special contributions to the development of school quality, to the development of a special school profile? – There has so far been no incentive for performance, and this also keeps the motivation of committed teachers and teachers quite limited. These novelles cement a system that is geared towards levels of salary and user groups. We don't want this cementing. We do not want an anti-performance system, we do not want an unfair system, but we want competition and performance to be included in the public service. You can with the consent of the Liberals to the 2. Service law novelle in the field of remuneration only if you really finally put up the courage – that is long overdue – to get rid of surface cosmetics and start real reforms towards performance orientation.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e20062	Mr Dr. Höchtl. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e20084	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== As some previous speakers have pointed out, novelle of service law is regulated by a large number of adjustments which have been achieved through negotiations between employers and employees. We agree with the adjustments that have been achieved for the executives and for parts of the national defence unions, of course also for those who work in the school sector. As far as the school sector is concerned, I must add that, in addition to what is contained in this Novelle Service Law, a working group has been set up by the Federal Minister, in which everything that has easily accumulated from necessary analyses and improvements over the past few years is to be worked out in partnership. Of course, this should not take too long, but it should form the solid foundation for the future of the educators to develop even without major conflicts. We agree with those agreements which we were able to reach in this Novelle Service Law, and hope that much positive can be achieved together in this working group.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e20120	Mr Antoni has now been reported to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e20141	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Just in time, before the end of the calendar year, teachers' union and service providers were able to negotiate the compromise that ensures the holding of school events of all kinds. They have been regulated – and my previous speakers have already pointed out – the care of matura or graduation classes and some other things. I would just like to take one point that seems particularly important and encouraging to me: I consider the re-regulation of computer care in the area of hardware, software, networking and networking in compulsory schools and, in particular, in the field of folk schools, something important and good! We thus already allow people's students access to new media. In addition to the mediation of cultural techniques, they now have the opportunity to develop computer expertise. I think the rules achieved are correct. Nevertheless – and in this I absolutely agree with some of my previous speakers – this does not relieve us of the obligation, together with the teachers' representatives, to work intensively and committed to a new right of service and remuneration for teachers.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e20175	There is no more word message for this. The debate is closed. A final word of the rapporteur is not wanted. We shall now proceed to the vote, and I would ask you to take the seats. We shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1538 of the Supplements. Whoever is in favour of this bill may give a sign of approval. - That's the majority. This draft is largely adopted. We shall come to the third reading. Whoever agrees to the draft in third reading may give a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft was also adopted by a majority of the third reading. 17. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1432 of the Supplements): Federal Law on the Increase in Austria's quota for the International Monetary Fund (1534 of Supplements) 18. Point Report by the Financial Committee on Amendment 945/A by Dr Ewald Novotny, Dkfm. Dr. Günter Stummvoll and comrades concerning a Federal Law on the Performance of Austrian Contributions to the HIPC Trust Fund or HIPC Trust Fund managed by the World Bank. to internationally-accredited emergency aid and/or emergency aid. Reconstruction funds to alleviate the disaster caused by the cyclone Mitch in Central America (1540 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e20242	We now come to points 17 and 18 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. Oral reporting has not been desired. We are starting the debate with a speech by Mr Mag. Trattner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e20269	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the case of this Government template 1432 the supplements are as follows: The Federal Law on the Increase in Austria's quota for the International Monetary Fund to increase by 684 million special drawing rights, which corresponds to about 11.6 billion schilling. It is incomprehensible to me that we are going so easily about these things, even though we have been more often asked about what is happening to these funds in recent times. The International Monetary Fund has been acting for about four years, since the crisis in Mexico, as a crisis fire brigade for countries in difficulty. With dollars, the foreign exchange phone will be filled up to deal with these problems and restore the trust of international financial markets. However, this confidence is only gained by the fact that they are paying back their foreign liabilities, i.e. the money transferred by the Monetary Fund goes back to the creditors abroad in the mail. Among these foreign believers, however, not only investors who have made long-term real-economy investments in the said countries but also the IMF's money goes back to so-called short-term funds, which actually only act with risky games in high-interest countries, in the light of the fact that, if anything happens, the Monetary Fund does not jump in and lead to a so-called damage regulation. It is now possible that it is simply possible to afford special funds, speculation funds such as the Longterm Capital Management Fund, which recently could only be picked up by billions of support, to speculate in these countries because they have the certainty that the International Monetary Fund is invading and that any speculative risks occur. But on top of that, ladies and gentlemen, our taxpayers are just too sorry! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Such funds are aimed only at speeding up any profits and, as soon as there is any problem, to withdraw in time. If one has not retreated in time, the rescue actions on the part of the Monetary Fund are on the way! It is always the same cycle that can be observed: A country is experiencing difficulties in paying, and the difficulties of payment are due to the fact that export orders are going back and fewer foreign exchange rates are coming into the country. It creates currency scarcity and, of course, a danger to the currency. But there are other causes for these crises, such as the banking structure in these countries or a wrong credit policy. The Monetary Fund thus intervenes and calls for certain conditions such as adjustment of the structures, the implementation of structural measures, a reduction in the budget deficit, and a close monitoring of the volume of money. Because if the amount of money is kept close, then, of course, interest rates are rising, and that is necessary in order for investment capital to return to these countries. But this brings back the short-term investors who are investing in risk capital and who want to make fast money, the interest rates are rising, and those who are actually suffering from all these actions are the people living there! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] As soon as these short-term, risky investors withdraw from the financial market there, the crisis will become much more serious. And the actually suffering people are the people there. There is a rapid rise in inflation, the population cannot afford anything, poverty arises. Therefore, those for whom the Monetary Fund is actually there to protect the economy, or should benefit the population, should not benefit, but only the risky private investors. And as long as this maladministration has not been eliminated, there will be no agreement by the Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Party. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I am only surprised at the whole thing that during the entire assessment phase, the Chamber of Labour has said this only critically. The Chamber of Labour has found this quite striking. As long as the International Monetary Fund does not intervene and does not ensure that social dissatisfaction is avoided there, but only ensures that private speculators do not lose their money as long as this fact remains, there will be no consent from the liberals to these actions.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e20334	Mr Gusenbauer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e20355	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The criticism of Mr Trattner at the International Monetary Fund is justified, because it is indeed the case that the policy of the International Monetary Fund has been considered in recent months – legitimately – over the last few months. [[Detonatative condolences of the Abg. Disc]] The tomorrow edition of the "Press" quotes a study by the World Bank's Chief Economist Joseph Stiglitz, in which it is shown that the policy of the International Monetary Fund did not read the self-employed, Mr Meischberger, if possible, objectives, because, in many countries where rescue packages of the Monetary Fund were tied up, they had led to a collapse of demand, large sections of the population had essentially been abandoned in impoverishment, and therefore the European Union and its finance ministers are rightly calling for a fundamental reform of the Monetary Fund. [[Abg. Ing. Meischberger: Please for the protocol: This is not true!]] I believe that the criticism of the Monetary Fund and its policies is so correct, but it is equally important that we have an instrument such as the Monetary Fund at our disposal. Because it's about the question: What instruments can be used to manage crises in a globalised world economy? – And there are a number of ideas for additional institutions in the world economy, which I believe can be discussed, but I believe that we should always use the existing structures to do what is actually necessary and right before new institutions and new bureaucrats come into existence. In this context, I hope for a coordinated action by the European Union, because the introduction of the euro will make it possible to act jointly in the Monetary Fund. At the last Council of Ministers meeting in the ECOFIN Council, the representation of the euro was discussed not only in the G-7, but also in the Monetary Fund. I think that this is a first, right step towards removing the Monetary Fund from its previous line, which is rightly criticized. The second point in this debate is about the measures we are taking to help the victims of the cyclone Mitch in Central America. It is a disaster that the countries concerned are throwing back by 20 years in their development. I think it is right, legitimate and necessary that the international community provides assistance. I believe it is important for us not only to rely on the multilateral organizations to help with our contribution there, but also to use the existing structures of Austrian development cooperation, which we have, since all these countries are either cooperation countries or priority countries of Austrian development cooperation, to provide aid that actually help. For it is about the fact that, at a time when the "World Vision" has rightly given donations for international cooperation, the Austrian State should choose the path that is the safest, namely to place a large part of the aid supplies on structures that function as well as the most audited, so that this aid is not used to enrich any corrupt governments but, on the contrary, to benefit the poorest of the poor. [[Abg. Gaugg: If one of you criticizes and agrees on a tour, he is not credible!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It is therefore important that the Financial Committee for the present proposal has decided on an amendment which not only channelled aid through multilateral organisations, but also leaves the possibility of dealing with the 100 million schilling that we are making available, also through the direct channels of Austrian development cooperation. I believe that this is the safest way for the money to arrive where it should actually come from, namely to the poorest!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e20416	Mrs Petrovic. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e20437	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The Greens, of course, agree with the requests made by the Financial Committee for assistance in response to the cyclones disaster. I think it is important to show international solidarity in such disasters. But it is also important, at a later hour and also in this already reduced circle, to stress that, in my opinion, Austria is doing too little to cope with the causes of natural disasters that are clearly becoming more frequent. The most important thing would be serious and genuinely implemented climate protection programmes. In my opinion, it is only possible for emerging and developing countries to expect something if advanced industrialized countries like Austria are going ahead with a good example. No one in this House will seriously doubt that efforts to reduce climate change should be made with real emphasis and, above all, the necessary measures should be taken in the context of tax and structural policy – the "eco-tax reform" tag. Here you are juicy. While it is necessary to provide resources for disaster relief and control, it is even more important to put in place measures to reduce the frequency of such disasters. We cannot accept the report by the Financial Committee on the increase in Austria's quota for the International Monetary Fund. We have discussed this very thoroughly once again. Mr Gusenbauer, you yourself mentioned the report on the press conference in which the World Bank expert was criticizing the IMF. I now ask you whether it is necessary to give more money to an institution where even the World Bank, which is truly not suspected of being averse to the market economy and market-compliant restructuring models, is to be criticised. For I think that the IMF has overlaid its patent "rehabilitation proposals" – under quotation marks. In the context of this criticism, it could also be heard that the excessive interest rate policy has led to unnecessary social hardships in the internal economy. However, I do not yet know a statement by the IMF that at least one has recognized these mistakes. In such a case, one could talk about whether this institution can be given greater confidence in the future. But a self-critical tone has not yet happened there. It is said literally in the corresponding report of the "Presse": "At the same time as the restructuring of the bankruptcy banks, the poor sections of the population would have to be protected by'social security networks'." Due to these wonderful "rehabilitation packages" – under quotation marks – 25 million people in a single year in Indonesia and Thailand alone have fallen into poverty. This is a wonderful "rehabilitation tool", which operates rehabilitation via social hardships, through poverty policy! And is Austria to increase the financing rate for this? – That doesn’t seem to me to be really opportunistic! The World Bank – you hear and marvel! We have long waited for such a word from the mouth of a World Bank expert to come to the conclusion that the fight against poverty in developing countries is urgent. And such a banal realization of the fact that there cannot be stability and economic progress if social progress does not at least go hand in hand with it seems at least to widen out in the World Bank. This also seems to be a criticism of the World Bank's policies so far, but the IMF is still not affected. If even the World Bank recommends that more caution be exercised in liberalising capital movements, I think it would be a good thing for the Austrian Parliament to give further financial resources to an institution that has resettled people into poverty.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e20484	Mr Fink. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e20505	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! With today's decision, Austria is participating in the internationally agreed aid programme for the countries of Honduras, Nicaragua, Guatemala and El Salvador, which are most affected by the cyclone of Mitch. Austria is not very committed in Central America. The amount we provide for this programme amounts to 100 million schilling. If one compares it with Spain providing 1.8 billion schilling to help, that is actually not very much. However, Austria has provided 14 million Schilling emergency aid for the purchase of food, medicine and other urgently needed aids. Austria will also grant these countries a reduction in their debt. This natural disaster is referred to as the most severe catastrophe of this century. I therefore believe that this 100 million schilling aid can be granted to the countries concerned without prejudice and with good conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e20538	Mr Magistrate has now been reported to speak. Peter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e20560	Mr President. High house! It is true that the International Monetary Fund is in the hostage of financial markets. That's a real but sad analysis. However, I think it is wrong to draw that conclusion from the fact that Trattner and Petrovic have drawn, namely to deny him other means. For the alternative, that there is no monetary fund, that some form of financial turbulence, means that we get black holes in our global economy, which not only move the entire financial markets but also the economy very quickly into their strudel. So I admit that, in today's situation, there is no doubt that we are almost forced to take this turbulence over the International Monetary Fund again and again, knowing that it benefits financial investors who are very likely to benefit from high returns on risk markets but who are not willing to carry the risk themselves. The alternative, not to intervene with the International Monetary Fund, would be even worse, and that is the hostage I was talking about. The reform of the International Monetary Fund can also start from Europe if Europe learns to pursue common strategies within the International Monetary Fund through the ECOFIN Council and to install a new leadership in the International Monetary Fund, which is more than previously controlled by the lenders. I believe that the situation of the financial markets as a whole is particularly threatening in the sense of derivative trading. This problem requires global cooperation on global financial markets. We will have to come to a global framework for our financial markets sooner than later. As far as they can still be far away today, we must strive for that! To tax derivative trading over a "tobin tax" as a whole, I think it is a highly debated way to limit the volume and reduce it to those areas for which the derivatives were correctly invented. We Liberals will therefore agree to the increase in Austria's quota in the International Monetary Fund, and I will do so, just as the other speakers do. But, unfortunately, I do not believe we have any other alternative in the current situation. That we want to give support to the victims of the cyclone Mitch, I consider of course and therefore announce the agreement to both of them.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e20600	There is no more word message for this. The debate is closed. There is no such thing as the rapporteur's conclusion. We are now voting separately on each of the Committee's proposals. I ask you to take the seats. First of all, we are voting on the draft federal law on the increase in Austria's quota for the International Monetary Fund and the title and receipt in 1432 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. This draft is largely adopted. We shall come to the third reading. Whoever agrees to the draft in third reading may make this known by a sign. – That too is the majority. The draft was adopted by a majority of the third reading. Now we come to the vote on the draft federal law on the performance of Austrian contributions to the relief of the disaster caused by the cyclone Mitch in Central America and the title and entry into 1540 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this draft to be a sign of approval. – This draft was adopted unanimously. We shall come to the third reading. Whoever agrees to this draft at the third reading may make this known by a sign. – That is also unanimous. The draft was adopted unanimously at third reading. 19. Point Report by the Financial Committee on Amendment 800/A (E) by Dr Alexander Van der Bellen and Comrades on the submission of a report on budgetary disbursements made (1535 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e20677	We are now coming to item 19 of the agenda. Oral reporting has not been required. There is only one word for me, by Mrs Petrovic. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e20705	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We often negotiate so-called budget allocations in this House. On the one hand, the government parties are generally brought into the meeting for these exclusions, that the federal administration, federal service law, budgetary law, is too difficult to allow for modern management, and, as a second argument, that exclusion would result in a previously deficient, expensive area being cheaper and economical. So far, both government parties have remained guilty of any evidence of these claims. On the contrary! [[Abg. May. Mühlbachler: That's not true!]] That's right! But you can, of course, relativize your previous attitude by rejecting the negative committee report. There is no evaluation of the breakdowns carried out. What you are doing here is a "voodoo economy", which has nothing to do with a reasonable budgetary objective. Ladies and gentlemen! Tell us how the relationship between costs and, above all, the economic benefits of the exclusion of labour market administration – now called AMS – for which the Minister for Social Affairs was responsible has changed! The unemployment rate has not fallen. The economic benefits have certainly not increased, although this has been very strongly claimed at the time in the process of disfellowshipping. We want to fight unemployment more effectively at last, it was said. Conclusion: That was not the case. Unemployment has risen. The costs have not fallen, certainly not! In all departments, in all the country offices, there is now now a red and a black director who earns more than in the Federal Administration, and overall the cost level has not fallen at all. What has clearly deteriorated is the level of performance. And it has been very "selective" – under quotation marks – especially in the cost of curative measures affecting women, or also in the case of non-profit recruitment aid. All of this will no longer exist in the future. I believe that the economic situation is also more unreasonable and expensive in the medium and long term. – So there was no evidence to this end. The same is true of motorway and highway financing AG and the rail infrastructure financing company. – Do these achieve 50 percent own funding, as required in the EU? Parliament has nothing more to do with it! These companies have been distributed, and the opposition has lost any right to make requests. However, further undertakings follow: ÖBB, Post and Telekom, Industriehaling, ÖIAG, a wealth of outlays. It would probably be a command of economic reason to consider sometime whether this has proved successful. For now these companies have been distributed, and Parliament has largely undermined the control rights which the government has promised, but has certainly not entered into fine vista. Even so, you go along funnyly, always conjure up some doll and claim that this is then cheaper and more efficient. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Mühlbachler.]] What's gotten cheaper? Why do you not have to say this little bit of national honesty: Let's look at that!? . This Green request does not, in principle, give an opinion on the exclusions. However, Mr Mühlbachler, we want some proof that these are useful. Has You got this evidence? – votes You agree with our request, and with that you reject the Committee's report. I don't understand how to run a "voodoo economy" like this. That's incomprehensible! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Now you say "Voodoo" for the third time! That's a lot!]] It's a little bit of voodoo! That's what I'm talking about. That is why we are making this request. For it is not a question of upholding justice and of maintaining public property rights and sovereign rights from Jux and Tolerance. But neither is it justament about the opposite. I think it would be really useful to examine this and look at it. I owe you. Its method of doing so especially where there are examples from abroad. Such exclusions have already been carried out in many countries, both in the social field and in the education sector, as well as in the infrastructure sector. Why didn't you even look at what happened to the UK's social administration? Why has one not even tried to check whether these foreign examples can also teach Austria whether it is more advisable or not to proceed in this way? Since ideologies collide, or they have previously coincided: One of them said: In any case, private is better. And the others still said: In any case, private is worse. – Today it has been agreed that it should not, in most cases, be a real privatisation or a state administration, and this strange model of dissemination has been chosen. That means: As a general rule, the responsibilities of the local authorities remain, the public influence and the possibility of giving political objectives, but the possibility of creating transparency and control disappears at the same time. The Federal Minister for Finance has at least promised in the Committee that he will present an annex to the next budget debate on some of these disbursements. You can or can't believe that. One can also question the completeness of such attachments from the outset. As a rule, the opposition is not reported anything which could somehow be unloving, and therefore I think that it would really be a step forward in this House if one went beyond all ideological relics once to evaluate such things. Because this is about huge sums, these distributed societies, which make up far more than the savings packages. I cannot understand why we are not prepared in this area to calculate this once. I really don't understand! It can't have anything to do with ideology or the like, that you can make such a simple and, as I mean, general parliamentary concern that you may look at what the whole thing has brought you into a real concern of all parties! I'll tell you something. I do not believe in it, but if it is really the case that, within the framework of the state administration, an economically meaningful behaviour which is planned for the future is impossible, I ask you: Why Reform You do not, in general, have budgetary law and service law in the direction that efficient conduct is also possible within the framework of public administration? – Because there are still enough areas that no one has proposed for a breakdown. I haven't heard a proposal from the government parties to withdraw the federal army or the police. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: The courts maybe?]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] I do not yet know of such proposals from the government parties! If it is really true that remuneration law, service law and budgetary law in these areas are so bureaucratic and rigid, why not reform them? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) This is still a Parliament, and if you are disturbed by the fact that members of the opposition are still taking the floor here, you will do everything behind closed doors! You have two-thirds of them! You can also limit speaking times once again! If it is so unpleasant for you to listen to a little bit of basic in connection with a request from a member of the opposition, I would like to make a real effort to make full use of my speaking time, which I did not intend to do! [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Now increase again!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Mrs Mertel! If this objection still comes from a woman, then it bothers me very much! I would like to say that this is also a bad sign of female solidarity in this House. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mrs Mertel! But I don't know if you're going to conform! In the past, social democracy used to represent other positions. [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] Now it seems that enlargements in this House are very "in", and you carry this! I think that with Mr Van der Bellen's request to review this, we would at least somehow achieve a minimum standard of democracy policy. I would like to remind you once again: I am much more categoric than we have done today for a more modern right of service and remuneration in the public service. [[Abg. Koppler: We want to hear Van der Bellen!]] I am in favour of a budgetary law which also allows medium and long-term planning to be carried out, and I very much regret that even such a small and, in my opinion, natural opposition request, which would benefit the federal budget as a whole, would not be an excuse for you. That's sad!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e20841	There is no more word message for this. The debate is closed. A final word was not requested by the rapporteur. I now ask you to take the places, because we are going to vote, and we are voting on the request from the Financial Committee to take note of its report 1535 of the supplements. Whoever is in favour of this request may give a sign of approval. - That's the majority. This request was accepted by a majority. 20. Point Report by the Justice Committee on Amendment 958/A by Mr Doris Bures, Mr Walter Schwimmer and Mr Comrades on a Federal Law amending the Law on Rental Law (1529 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e20888	We're coming to the 20th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. I am the first speaker to give the floor to Mr Dr. Schwimmer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e20912	Mr President. High house! I hope that, instead of the five minutes, we can make five sentences! [[Bravo!-Rufe and congratulation at the SPÖ.]] Today, we decide on a very short, but regardless of that, very important novel to the law on rental law, because this will maintain the effectiveness of the referee bodies or will be improved in the interest of the applicant. The conciliation bodies are a proven instrument for the discharge of district courts in the cities where they are established. The concern of many critics in the decision-making of the major housing law reform four and a half years ago has not occurred, which proves that the housing law reform has proved successful. I would have liked to have seen it if we had today also been able to decide on a new arrangement for rental interest-rate reserves so that a reasonable savings could be made. I hope that will be possible on the next occasion. There are some other wishes... – That's right! [[Abg. May. Posch: This is the fourth sentence!]] And unfortunately I have to repeat now to respond to your call! There are still some other requests for residence rights, both in the area of rental rights and housing public utility. I believe, however, that, because these are the wishes that go into detail, that in both cases a review procedure is useful and important so that those concerned can comment on it. We would like to agree with today's novel. I hope I kept my promise with the five sentences.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e20954	Mrs Bures. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e20975	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, the current amendment to the rental law also finds our approval. As we have seen in the Committee, it finds the approval of all the political groups, because it is in fact only a matter of clarifying the provisions of the conciliation procedure. This is an undisputed question, and at the same time there is a small novel regarding the extension of the opposition period to four weeks. The fact that Mr Schwimmer has found the result with five sentences is of course also due to the fact that he has played out the opportunity of possibly implementing some change in the interests of the tenants at the same time as this MRG-Novelle. This opportunity – which is particularly regrettable to us – has been played out, although gratefully there has been a working group in the Federal Ministry of Justice, in which not only representatives of the Ministry of Justice, the Working Party on Housing Law, but also representatives of the Chamber of Commerce, representatives of real estate and business loyals and representatives of tenants' protection organisations have participated. These changes, which relate specifically to the management costs – and they are part of the housing costs – have found broad agreement here. This broad agreement was not only politically acceptable. Mr. Swimper! I would just like to remind you that as far as this operating distribution is concerned – and more was it in this a little larger novel than it is on the table today – was not to be read in one of your newspapers: "Swimmer adds that he would like to know, by a qualified majority, the separate collection of water costs by his own water meter throughout the right of residence." You would have had a chance today, but unfortunately they played! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Schwimmer.]] All the other questions about a rental rights novel, of which parts of the ÖVP are unfortunately not yet convinced, we have ruled out anyway. I would like to briefly mention the unequal treatment of homosexuals in the right of entry into lease contracts, and it is likely that a request will be made here too. Three days after World AIDS Day, it would be good for this House to discuss this question. For people who lose their partner, no matter what form of life they have chosen, the fact that they are also discriminated against in rental law is an intolerable state. That is why I would like to say to my group: We will, of course, agree with this small novel. We will not, however, agree with a discriminatory regime with which people who choose a different form of life will be discriminated against, because that is why we actually tolerate human rights violations, and that is why we will choose a different way on this issue. Mr. Swimper! However, I invite you to speak not only five sentences in the future on the question of tenant protection, but more, even in the interest of all tenants! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e21030	Mr Vanner. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e21052	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The proposal on which it is based today is a procedural problem in the field of rental law. She really doesn't tear anyone out of the chair. It will go through the stage unanimously, the liberals will also agree. More interesting than the novelle itself is the drum and dran, which is the agenda for the meeting of the Committee on Justice, which took place two days ago, and the Aviso for the agenda for today's plenary session compared with what is actually happening. I should like to read briefly from the invitation to the meeting of the Committee on Justice on Wednesday: The first item on the agenda is the request we are now discussing and voting on. The second point is the request made by Mr Schmidt on amendments to the Law on Rental Law, which concerns non-marital communities. The third point is a request concerning the revision of the Copyright Act, fourth point is a request concerning the improvement of the legal status of victims of criminal acts, fifth point is a request concerning effective measures against child abuse and child pornography. All of this is to be found on the Committee's agenda and also on the Aviso agenda for today's plenary session. But everything in the Committee has gone down! We have only come to a decision on the proposal on which we are now discussing. The other points have been postponed by being postponed. We have voted in favour of the requests for a decision by agreeing to the request for a postponement. The requests for subcommittees have not been made to be successful because they have been approved. And I take it from the agendas for other committees and today's agenda that this procedure in various areas which are in the house to deal with is a threat to fashion. Ladies and gentlemen! It can't go on like this! We can't find ourselves for that! One will really be able to agree to a delay there or there. It will be appropriate to do this. But it is simply not possible to put an end to unpleasant requests made by one or another opposition party, by neither voting in favour nor against them, so that they do not find the way into the plenary session, where they can be discussed and then voted on in all public. And it is not a question of using subcommittees, even if they are requested, but simply saying: We still have to think about that. Because that is for months, probably for this legislative period at all, from the table, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Personally, it is not as important to me as others to discuss the problems that may arise in connection with nonmarital communities. But I can imagine that the applicants are very likely to have a keen interest in the fact that they will not be given a third-class funeral as happened yesterday in the Committee on Justice. Because that's where you just postponed! There is the problem of the novelle on the copyright law. In fact, everyone agreed that something should happen. Nevertheless, nothing has happened. Apparently, the request came from the wrong side – also from an opposition party. You just missed it. All of us have explained in their speeches that it is simply and simply a matter of saying yes, but we have not been able to do so. There was also a request concerning the revision of the criminal procedure in the sense that one is finally doing something for the victims of criminal acts in Austria. It has been pointed out that the great criminal process is now coming and that we are planning some sort of thing anyway, then we can do everything in a wash. – It is clear to everyone that the criminal procedure is a big and difficult project, in which especially the internal and judicial areas are lost their hair. These major criminal proceedings have already been carried out by generations of ministers of justice, but they have never yet come to Parliament to the fullest extent. In view of this, if one does not take an advance on problems that did not tolerate delay, such as the improvement of the position of victims of criminal offences, then all of this will be postponed to the Sankt-Nimmerleins-Tag. Then this is simply postponed, is away from the table, nothing is happening for the victims, the subject is pushed beyond the legislative period! There was also a request from the liberals, such as the request for improvement of victims, for additional measures to be taken against child abuse and child pornography. This is also what no one wanted and could close up in the Committee on Justice. Nevertheless, it was not voted with a yes, not with a No, there was no subcommittee, no experts were drawn up, but it was simply postponed. One cannot resist the impression that the "Senders" of the applications were the wrong ones: They were requests from the liberals and the liberals, and they simply cannot reap success. It is better to move things to the long bank, although everyone is convinced that something has to be done in this regard. This could be seen from the contributions to the debate. Now, however, these points have once again been removed from the Committee's agenda, because now the National Council election is coming up, no matter when it comes, and what it is about will probably be, if we do not make any special efforts to find on any agenda of a meeting of the Committee on Justice during this legislative period! Ladies and gentlemen! That's not how it's going! I call on you to show honesty! If you do not want the requests, you say so, then vote against them! However, if you think that the requests are reasonable and only the wrong senders are behind them, you say that too! Then you say: It is reasonable, but we do not want you, and therefore we do not want your requests either. We will reject your requests, but we will be basking ourselves on matter! Or use the subcommittees that are required, or draw up the experts who are requested! But if one simply smiles and delays to have it off the table and so to get over the legislative period without having to submit to the embarrassment, to accept reasonable requests from the opposition, then this is a poor understanding of democracy and a poor understanding of parliamentarianism, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e21123	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Barmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e21144	Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! With regard to the presentation of the final meeting of the Committee on Justice, I should like to ask Mr Vanner: There was simply no interest in the committee on the part of the government groups in assessing the content of the opposition's requests. That is why, on behalf of my group, I am going to make one more request, which we have already tabled to the Law on Rental Law in the Committee on Justice and which unfortunately was postponed at the last part-session. This application concerns § 14 para. 3 2. Set of rental law and has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mrs Bures has already said clearly what is behind this request. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] – Deputies! I would like to point out once again that it is interesting that such a distinction should be made according to other criteria, but obviously not the kind. 7 B-VG corresponds to each and every one here in plenary that would be clearly recognized. Interestingly, however, when it comes to living communities, whether they are heterosexual, homosexual, or lesbian relationships, one makes a distinction with species. In our view, B-VG is not compatible. Therefore, we ask you to consider whether you would like to join our amendment, which would ensure that this inequality, which we believe is incompatible with Article 7 B-VG, finally ceases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e21212	Mr Magnificent. Barmüller's request for amendment is sufficiently supported and is included in the negotiation. I now give the floor to Mrs Parfuss. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e21233	My colleague Bures, who is the president of the tenants' association, has already given an adequate opinion on the law on rental rights. In this context, I would just like to point out that censure bodies, which are a cost-effective and citizen-friendly alternative to the court, are unfortunately far too rare to be found. For example, there is no single interlocutory point in Vorarlberg and only one in Tyrol. On the request of the Liberal Forum: The required right of entry for same-sex partners is fully supported by us. Any relief from survivors is to be made possible, because in addition to the emotional disaster caused by the death of the partner, economics is often added. The survivors must rent a new apartment, which is most expensive, but does not receive widow's or widow's pension and must bear the cost of the budget alone from now on. In view of this, he should be allowed to remain in the home of the deceased. You know we're in a coalition. We still need to do some persuasive work at the ÖVP in order to enable the coalition partner to contribute to this regulation. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Feigheit is not a virtue!]] I call on the ÖVP not to shut down on behalf of the humanity of this persuasion! The Socialists will leave the room during this vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e21269	There is no more word message for this. The debate is closed. There is no such thing as a final word on the part of the rapporteur. Mr Mag. Barmüller to the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e21293	Mr President. I ask you to determine the pro- and contrasts according to § 66 para. 3 Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e21314	Only when you apply for an addition?
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e21330	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e21354	I therefore note that in the sense of § 66 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure were requested to put to the vote on the supplementary request of Mr Dr Schmidt and Mr Comrades to a vote. We'll do that. To this end I ask the two scribes to come up to me so that they can make this narrative with me. These are Mrs Reitsamer and Mrs Rosemarie Bauer. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1529 of the supplements. [[The representatives of the Socialist Group are leaving the Chamber.]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Schmidt and Mr Comrades have tabled an additional request. I shall first vote on this supplementary proposal and then on the draft law and the title and receipt. Deputies Dr. Schmidt and Comrades have submitted an additional request for the insertion of a new Z 1 § 14 para. 3 referred to in Article I. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this supplementary request to give a sign of approval. – After counting, I note that 11 votes in favour and 73 votes against. That's the minority. The application is rejected. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] There is therefore no vote on the requested amendment to the terms of reference. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report in 1529. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. – This decision was taken unanimously. Adopted unanimously. We shall come to the third reading. Whoever agrees in third reading may give a sign in this regard. – The draft was also adopted unanimously at third reading. 21. Point Reimbursement of proposals for the appointment of a member and a replacement member of the Constitutional Court
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e21440	We're coming to the 21st. Agenda item. We'll come to the election right now. First of all, I will vote on the proposals for the appointment of a member of the Constitutional Court. There are several constituencies. On the election as a member of the Constitutional Court, on a proposal by Dr. Kostelka, Dr. Khol and Comrades, Mr DDr. Hans Georg Ruppe, on the proposal of the honourable Member Mag. Stadler and comrades Mr Universitätsprofessor Dr. Bernhard Raschauer, on a proposal by Dr. Schmidt and Comrades Mrs. Universitätsprofessor Dr. Gabriele Kucsko-Stadlmayer and on a proposal by Dr. Petrovic and Comrades Dr. Brigitte Hornyik. I would like to point out that, in accordance with § 87 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure shall also be valid for votes containing the name of another electable candidate. The Parliamentary Directorate has prepared a vote paper containing the names of the proposed candidates and a box on the right, as well as an empty line, which also contains a box. The ballot shall be filled in in the way that a cross is to be made in the box parallel to the names of the candidate whose choice is to be made. In this way it is made clear which candidate is to be elected, unless another name is written on the election proposal. I would ask you, after the vote has been completed, to put it in the envelope that is equally distributed. The individual members of the National Council are called in alphabetical order and invited to cast their envelopes into the urn provided. I am now interrupting the session for a few minutes for the distribution of the votes and the envelopes.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e21500	Ladies and gentlemen! The votes are distributed and I will resume the interrupted session. I would ask Mrs Reitsamer to begin with the name call; Mrs Applebeck will replace them later. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are called on to come to the constituency and throw the closed envelope into the urn.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e21533	The vote will end. The staff of the House will now take the vote, under the supervision of the experts. I would like to interrupt the session for a few minutes, but ask you to keep the seats because in this interruption we will distribute the ballots for the election of the replacement member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e21566	I will resume the interrupted session and inform you of the results of the election. 153 votes were cast, 147 of them valid. It was for DDr. Ruppe 92, on Dr. Raschauer 32, on Dr. Kucko-Stadlmayer 9, on Dr. Hornyk 7 and on other candidates 7 votes. The absolute majority of valid votes are 74. The proposal of the National Council for the appointment of a member of the Constitutional Court is thus DDr. Rupping. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] We now come to the election on the appointment of a substitute member of the Constitutional Court. There are also several constituencies. For election as a substitute member of the Constitutional Court, Dr Kostelka, Dr. Khol and comrades Mr. Dr. Robert Schick, on a proposal from the honourable Member Mag. Stadler and comrades Mr Universitätsprofessor Dr. Heinz Schäffer, on a proposal from Dr. Schmidt and Comrades, Mrs. Dr. Brigitte Hornyik and on a proposal from Dr. Petrovic and Comrades, Mrs. Dr. Andrea Wukovits. I would also draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, votes are also valid, which contain the names of another electable candidate. Votes have already been distributed in the session break. Does every Member and every Member have a vote? - Good. Then we can start voting, and I ask Mrs Reitsamer to start by calling on Members. It will then be tabled by the honourable Member. I'll be replaced. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e21635	The vote will end. I would like to begin with the counting of votes. Before interrupting the sitting for this purpose, I would like to make a supplementary statement: Of those 7 votes who were among other candidates in the election of the member of the Constitutional Court, 5 were for Dr. Matzka, 1 vote for Dr. Pesendorfer and one voice for Dr. Hofmeister. I am now interrupting the sitting for the purpose of counting the votes.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e21671	Ladies and gentlemen! I will resume the interrupted session and inform you of the outcome of the election for the replacement member of the Constitutional Court. 152 votes were cast, 144 of them valid. The votes shall be distributed as follows: 86 were on Dr. Schick, 32 on Dr. Schäffer, 12 on Dr. Hornyik, 7 on Dr. Wukovits and 7 votes on other candidates who spread as follows: 4 votes for Dr. Matzka, 1 vote for Dr. Hengstschätter and 2 votes for Dr. Pesendorfer. The absolute majority of valid votes are 73. Thus, the proposal of the National Council for the appointment of a replacement member of the Constitutional Court to Dr. Schick. The agenda is exhausted. Vote on requests for time-limits
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e21720	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution (Doc. Barmüller and comrades concerning the introduction of a driver's licence until 20. In 1999 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Those who are in favour of this request may give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We are now voting on the proposal to report to the Transport Committee on Amendment 954/A (E) by Dr Gabriela Moser and Comrades on the development of a total Austrian transport plan for a period of until 19. In 1999 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, Those who are in favour of this request may give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. Standing Subcommittee of the Committee of the Regions: Request according to § 32e para. 2 GOG
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e21769	I declare that I would like a quarter of the members of the National Council to be asked to give the Subcommittee of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection an audit on the verification of the appropriate use of funds of the World Vision organisation by the Federal Government. As the legal requirements are met, this examination procedure must also be carried out without the decision of the National Council. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1998-12-04-020-XX-NRSITZ-00152_d7e21793	I am still announcing that in today's sitting, the self-employed applications 974/A to 979/A have been tabled. Questions 5311/J to 5341/J were also raised. I call the next meeting of the National Council for 5. The meeting was held on 1 December 1998 at 1.17 p.m., following this meeting. This meeting is closed.
