ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 12th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Ljudmila Novak, Mrs Iva Dimic, Mrs Eva Irgl, Mrs Jelka Godec, Mr Jožef Horvat, mag. Matthew Tonin, Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec, mag. Anže Logar, Mr Jan Mahnic, Mr Janez Janša, Miha Kordiš, Mr Ivan Hršak from 3 p.m. on and Mr Marijan Pojbič. I welcome everyone here. Moving on to 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12. AND 13. On the other hand, the draft law on consumer credit amendments, the proposal for amendments to the law on amendments to the law on postal services, the proposal for amendments to the law on electronic communications, the proposal for amendments to the law on investment funds and management companies, the proposal for amendments to the law on electronic communications and the amendment of the law on payment services and systems. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. At the 39th meeting of the College of the President of the National Assembly, on 9 October 2015, it was agreed that the additional explanations of the applicant, presentation of the reports of the home work bodies and presentation of the views of the members of the groups on all proposals for legislation should be carried out together, as these are substantively related proposals. In order to further explain the proposals of the law, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary, Ministry of Economic Development and Technology mag. Margareti Goochek Zakoshek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u2	Thank you, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Dear Members and Members, distinguished other representatives of the government, good morning! You have seven legislative proposals to be adopted in the package: a proposal for a law on out-of-court resolution of consumer disputes, a proposal for a law on amendments to the Consumer Credit Act, a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Investment Funds and Companies for Management, a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Payment Services and Systems, and a proposal for a law on changes and additions to the Energy Law. While the draft law on out-of-court resolution of consumer disputes at systemic level regulates out-of-court resolution of consumer disputes, so-called IRPS, the other 6 legislative proposals deal with that area in specific economic areas. The proposals for laws are therefore adopted in the legislative procedure in the package because they must be adopted simultaneously. Let me continue with the presentation of key solutions, with a view to focusing on the system law itself, the draft law on out-of-court resolution of consumer disputes, with which we want: to increase the legal security of consumers and market providers in all economic areas by establishing effective, simple, fast and affordable out-of-court dispute resolution procedures, to encourage the use of domestic and cross-border consumer dispute resolution procedures, and by establishing appropriate infrastructure to remove obstacles that would discourage suppliers and consumers from participating in such procedures, to increase consumer confidence and thus demand for products and services in the framework of the classic and online form of purchasing, which brings greater competitiveness and even comparative advantages to the market. The proposal for a law is based on the rules of the European directive on alternative dispute resolution and the Regulation on online consumer dispute resolution, and for the first time at systemic level it governs an area that has not yet been regulated in Europe and has not yet been regulated in the Slovenian legal order at systemic level. Although it is not possible to ignore the fact that in practice we have also developed a wide range of forms of out-of-court or alternative dispute resolution, such as mediation, conciliation, prior neutral assessment, reconciliation, mediation and so on. These are already used in civil and economic disputes. Their common feature, however, is the informality of the procedure and consensuality. In the area of consumer law, the enforcement of out-of-court dispute resolution is also of particular importance due to the specific nature of disputes. Typical consumer disputes are relatively low property values, but they are common and therefore numerical. Furthermore, consumer disputes are characterised by obvious imbalances in economic power, legal knowledge and experience between the consumer and the company, as well as the imbalance between asset value and also the threatening costs of the court. Simply put, the consumer acts as a weaker party in contractual relations with the tenderer, resulting in a classic legal procedure resulting from the lack of adequate mechanisms for out-of-court resolution of disputes, for him or her, is often a major obstacle to the exercise of his or her rights. Within the meaning of the proposal for a law, the IRPS procedure means that a third neutral person in a non-judicial structured procedure helps the consumer and the tenderer: for the first time – to reach agreements, for the second time – to propose a solution and for the third time – after a dispute, it also adopts a binding solution, a decision. With the proposal for a law, we want to specify the principles of transparency, legality, volunteerism, contradictions and efficiency that IRPS operators need to take into account in the management of the procedures themselves, regulate the main rules of the IRPS procedures and the legal consequences of decisions taken by the IRPS operator, i.e. out-of-court resolution of consumer disputes. For persons who lead or participate in the process, we set standards of professional competence, independence and impartiality, we set out the information to be published on the websites by operators for the out-of-court resolution of consumer disputes; that is, data on contacts, form of organisation, sources of funding, names of persons who decide in proceedings, rules of procedure, costs of procedure, duration of dispute resolution and so on. We also lay down the duty of transparent public publication of reports on the structure and scope of disputes and on the results of resolution. We also set out the obligations of tenderers to inform consumers about out-of-court dispute resolution operators recognised as competent to resolve their disputes. This is done by providers by publishing information on websites, under general operating conditions or otherwise in a suitable way, if they do not have the option. The bill also ensures the implementation of the regulation on online dispute resolution, which is intended to facilitate the resolution of disputes arising from cross-border online purchases for consumers and tenderers. To this end, the European Commission is setting up a European platform for online dispute resolution as a single entry point for tenderers and consumers. Disputes will be dealt with by IRPS operators notified by Member States to the European Commission and must be trained to do so in order to ensure effective procedures. Therefore, the bill also sets out the register of IRPS operators and the conditions for entry into the register, which is managed by the competent authority, the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, as proposed by law. The existence of well-trained IRPS operators in the Member States is also a condition for the functioning of the European platform and Member States also establish national contact points that provide support to consumers, providers and operators of IRPS. The Ministry of Economic Development and Technology shall be responsible for the performance of the tasks of the national contact point as proposed by law. I would like to point out that the purpose of the legal regulation of the IRPS in the first place is not to formalise the dispute resolution process itself in a manner such as settled judicial proceedings, but to promote their widest possible use, as it can contribute significantly to a simpler, faster and more affordable resolution of disputes for consumers and tenderers. However, in order to encourage the application of such procedures, it is necessary to have a predictable legal framework. We believe that the bill will have beneficial effects on the economy, regardless of the short-term burden on the business of the tenderers and the commitment to a peaceful settlement of disputes, as it avoids potential high legal costs, and the peaceful resolution of disputes with consumers also offers a competitive advantage to the bidders, as it increases consumer confidence and thus the demand for their products. Finally, it is also justified to expect favourable effects on the state budget, since the law, by reducing the number of consumer disputes that would otherwise be resolved before regular courts, will help to decompress the courts and, consequently, will bring savings to them. Finally, there are some other points regarding the accompanying legislative proposals. As mentioned above, simultaneous amendments to all laws are necessary because of the internal regulatory consistency of the Slovenian legal order. Thus, the accompanying legislative proposals are aligned with the system law on the out-of-court resolution of consumer disputes, which I initially explained in a broader way. The proposals for individual sectoral laws shall be coordinated at the relevant sites in accordance with the rules of the IRPS procedures and the standards to be followed by out-of-court consumer dispute resolution operators in specific areas governed by the laws. More specific is the mandatory participation of tenderers in the IRPS procedures proposed by four of the six accompanying legislative proposals, while the proposal for a system law on the out-of-court resolution of consumer disputes provides, as a rule, for the voluntary participation of tenderers in proceedings, while allowing for arrangements to impose mandatory cooperation on tenderers, provided that this is the case for a specific law. In view of the current topic, we would like to propose that the National Assembly, as part of this regular meeting, also carry out a third reading of this law. With this I conclude my presentation, of course we are available to you for all further questions and explanations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u3	The draft law on out-of-court resolution of consumer disputes, the proposal for a law amending the Consumer Credit Act and the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Postal Services Act were considered by the Committee on the Economy as a parent labour force. I give the floor to Mrs Potočnik, President of the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u4	President, thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on the Economy considered the draft law on the out-of-court resolution of consumer disputes as a mother's labour force and the substantively linked proposal on amendments to the Consumer Credit Act and the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Postal Services Act. The amendments to the draft law on out-of-court resolution of consumer disputes were tabled by the SMC, Desus and SD, the SDS Group and the NSI Group of Members. The amendments to the other two substantively related laws were tabled by SMC, Desus and SD. At the meeting, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service pointed out that the comments made in the written opinion of the Service should be taken into account in order to ensure that the system law and the related sectoral law are harmonised among themselves. She pointed out that the majority of the comments made in the written opinion of the service were duly taken into account in the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups, with the exception of the three on which the Ministry provided explanations. With regard to the other two substantively related proposals, the law made a comment on the elimination of the uncertainty as to whether the participation of tenderers in the proceedings was mandatory or not and the comment on the arrangements for the transitional regime. She pointed out that these comments were duly taken into account by the amendments of the coalition groups. The meeting was attended by representatives of consumer organisations, the representative of the European Dispute Settlement Centre expressed support for the laws under consideration and commented on the voluntary participation of tenderers in the procedure. The representative of the Union of Consumers of Slovenia expressed the view that the proposal for a law does not constitute an appropriate basis for establishing an effective system for out-of-court resolution of consumer disputes and made a number of comments on the solutions proposed. However, the representative of the Consumers' Association Zasavja commented on the comprehensibility of the provisions of the bill and on the level of the fee for the operator’s proceedings. The meeting was also attended by a representative of the Association for Informatics and Telecommunications at the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and a representative of the Section for Operational Electronic Communications at the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. The representative of the section made comments on the arbitrary establishment of the rules of operation of the operators, on the time limit for initiating the dispute before the operator and on the issue of the storage of data on communications services performed. The meeting was also attended by a representative of the Communications Network and Services Agency, who highlighted the successful resolution of disputes before the Agency and expressed support for the laws under consideration. The meeting was also attended by a representative of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia, who commented on excessive administrative and legislative obligations for companies, and by a representative of the Bank of Slovenia, who expressed support for the proposed laws. At the meeting, the State Secretary and the representative of the Ministry provided an extensive explanation of the concerns expressed by stakeholders, namely the national contact point, the decision-making within the college body, the voluntary participation of tenderers in the procedure, the level of fees, the interpretation of the provisions of Article 16 of the system law under consideration, the storage of data and the limitation of the time limit for initiating the dispute. The Ministry stressed that the opposing concerns of the various stakeholders point to the dilemma between the establishment of a system to improve consumer protection on the one hand and the introduction of additional burdens on the economy on the other. It highlighted the importance of promoting an out-of-court dispute resolution system and consumer care as an opportunity in terms of the comparative advantages of suppliers. The debate expressed the view that the legislation in question represents a positive step towards improving consumer protection in Slovenia and will help to resolve consumer disputes more quickly, cheaper and easier and burdensome cases. At the meeting, a proposal was submitted to the members and members of the Committee for the amendment of the Committee of the United Left Group to the 11th Article, to which the Committee had identified itself in the debate and had not accepted it. After the discussion, the Committee considered the amendments of SMC, Desus and SD to the draft law on out-of-court resolution of consumer disputes and adopted them as well as the amendments of the SDS Group of Members and the amendments of the NSI Group of Members and did not accept them. The Committee voted on all articles of the draft law on out-of-court resolution of consumer disputes, the proposal for a law amending the Consumer Credit Act and the draft law on amendments and additions to the Postal Services Act and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, texts have been prepared on all three complementary proposals of the law, including the amendments adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Electronic Communications was considered by the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as a parent labour force. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of the Magi. I'm holding Bon Clanjschek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u6	Thank you very much. Your Honor! At its 14th regular meeting on 2 October this year, the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Communications submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration. In the light of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the technical and legislative aspects, the proposed law has been examined by the Legal and Legislative Service and has made some comments to it. Her representative explained that their comments were taken into account in the amendments tabled and, in addition, in the Ministry's specially prepared written explanations. The representative of the Commission of the National Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport also reported that the members of the Commission supported the bill. Among other things, it was found that the applicant took due account of the comments made by the interested public, including the comments of the Legal and Legislative Service in terms of clarity and legal certainty, which are taken into account in the proposals of the amendments of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. The amendments were therefore tabled by the SMC, Desus and SD in the course of the course of business, to Article 1, to the title of the Final provision and to Article 3a. All three amendments were also adopted without discussion. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport explained what the aim of the bill is and the proposed harmonisation was also welcomed by the representatives of AKOS and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Association for Informatics and Telecommunications. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. On the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the text of the amended law in which amendments are adopted is prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law amending the Law on Investment Funds and Management Companies and the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Payment Services and Systems has been treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the Committee's reports, I give the floor to Mr Tiln Bozic, Vice-President. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u8	Dear Presidents, distinguished colleagues! In the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy at its 13th regular session on 6 October 2015, we considered the draft Law amending the Law on Investment Funds and Management Companies, ZISDU-3A, submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. The Committee has also received opinions from the Legislative and Legal Service and the competent Commission of the State Council. Possible amendments have not been submitted by qualified applicants. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Legal and Legislative Service also attended. In the introduction, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance explained that the proposal for a law was in line with the proposal for a law on out-of-court resolution of consumer disputes. The link between the latter law and the proposal under consideration is set out in Article 71 of the existing ZISDU-3 and the amendment is based on Directive 2013/11/EU, which regulates the rules of out-of-court dispute resolution procedures. In addition, the representative of the Ministry of Finance also responded to the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service on the arrangements for the transitional period. The Committee then voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. Given that the Committee has not adopted any amendments to the draft law as a working mother body, we propose to the National Assembly that the draft law be adopted in the proposed text. At the same meeting, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, as a parent working body, also addressed the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Payment Services and Systems, so-called ZPLASS-D, which was also submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption. With regard to this item on the agenda, we have also received opinions from the Legislative and Legal Service and the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance, which supported the proposal. In its opinion, the legislative and legal service highlighted in particular the uncertainties of the proposed arrangements, whether the involvement of the payment service provider in the out-of-court resolution of consumer disputes is mandatory or not, the need to establish a transitional period in which payment service providers will provide a method of implementation in accordance with the requirements of the draft law on out-of-court resolution of consumer disputes, and drew attention to the uncertainty as to the paymentability of the provision of services. The amendments to the bill were tabled by SMC, DeSUS and SD. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance and representatives of the Legal and Legislative Service also attended the meeting. In the introductory supplementary explanation, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance explained that the draft law transposes the provisions of the previously mentioned Directive which regulates the out-of-court resolution of disputes between providers of goods and services and consumers. This Directive is transposed into the legal order by means of a multi-law package, with the umbrella of the law on out-of-court resolution of consumer disputes. The proposed novelty relates to the resolution of consumer disputes in the field of payment services, thus ensuring internal compliance with the rules. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service then explained that the amendments tabled took into account the comments made in their opinion on the clarity of the regulation and the transition to a new regime. The Committee considered and adopted amendments to the SMC, DeSUS and SD parliamentary groups below. We then voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u9	The proposal for a law amending the Energy Act was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report, I give the floor to Mr Igor Zorčič, President of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u10	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space shall meet at its 13th meeting, on 1. Ten. 2015 as a parent working body, the Government submitted a proposal for a law amending the Energy Act to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption following a regular procedure. Representatives of the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Legislative and Legal Service and the Commission of the National Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development participated in the meeting of the Committee. On behalf of the applicant, the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Peter Gasperšič, explained that the aim of the proposal for a law to comply with the draft law on the out-of-court resolution of consumer disputes is to transpose Directive 2013/11-EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 July 2013 on the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. 5. 2013 Under the Directive, Member States must ensure that consumer disputes are resolved out-of-court in all areas of consumer protection, including disputes arising from electricity supply. The draft law also transposes the requirements of Directive 2009/72-EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13. Seven. 2009 on common rules of the internal market in electricity and repealing the Directives imposing on Member States, in accordance with Annex 1 to the Directive, the right to transparent, simple and cheap procedures for the handling of complaints by customers. The legislator shall so order suppliers or their associations to appoint an independent and impartial person or several persons responsible for deciding on the complaints made by domestic customers. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service presented the written opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, stressing that the amendments tabled in the majority are repealing and improving the legislative text tabled. The President of the Commission of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Regional Development also attended the meeting and explained that the Commission supports the proposal of the law. In the debate, some members of the Committee expressed the view that the proposed amendment to the Energy Law regulates only technical matters and transposes directives but does not solve the systemic problems that are already present in this area. They support the bill, but they expect comprehensive and systemic solutions to that area from the proposer. The Committee adopted amendments to Articles 1, 3, 4, 5 and 6 of the SMC, SD and Desus coalition groups. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u11	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. The word is "ma'am mag." Mr Mirjam Bon Klanjšček on behalf of the Group of Unaffiliated Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Your Honor! We transpose into the Slovenian legal order the rules for out-of-court resolution of consumer disputes and the requirements to be met by out-of-court dispute resolution operators in accordance with the Directive. An out-of-court resolution of domestic and cross-border consumer disputes resolved by the IRPS operator shall be established when the dispute arises from contractual relations between the providers of goods and services, including online sales contracts and online services contracts. A package of consideration of the proposed law and other accompanying laws, which reflect the changes and additions made by the proposed law, introduces the transparency and integrity of legal standardisation into the legal order. For out-of-court dispute resolution procedures, the rules of these procedures, principles, legal consequences, level of education, criteria of independence and impartiality for persons leading or participating in the procedure, additional criteria of legal competence and experience for persons conducting the procedures, information to be published by operators on the Internet, the duty of transparent public publication of messages, information to be made known to consumers prior to the conclusion of the contract, the conditions for the entry of IRPS operators into the register maintained by the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology and the national contact points providing support to consumers and tenderers to the European IRPS platform. We are in favour of all forms of out-of-court dispute resolution in the Group of Non-Related Members, which, in our firm belief, allow users faster access to an appropriate remedy and partly co-decision on their rights. It is not negligible that in doing so it is also a burden and a faster operation of the court, thereby strengthening the positive perception of the functioning of the legal system. In this context, we also support the purpose of regulating out-of-court consumer disputes, which, in accordance with the Directive, does not specifically address the dispute resolution process itself in this area, such as judicial procedures, but encourages the widest possible use of this form of consumer dispute resolution. Out-of-court resolution can make it easier, faster and more affordable to resolve disputes for consumers and tenderers. In order to encourage further use of these procedures, it is essential to provide a reliable and predictable legal framework that will address key issues and procedural principles, as well as the standards to be followed by operators. At the same time, in the opinion of our Group of Members, efforts should be made to ensure that the procedure remains as simple as possible and can be understood by consumers. We will support the package of laws in the Group of Non-Aligned Members of the Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Škodnik will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u14	Mr President, representatives of the Government, colleagues and fellow Members! The forms of out-of-court consumer dispute resolution in the European Union are not the same and well-developed. The European Commission has found that there are significant differences between Member States regarding accessibility and knowledge of the possibility of out-of-court resolution of consumer disputes. Mechanisms in the economic sectors are not properly established and are not functioning satisfactorily. Differences between Member States regarding accessibility, quality and knowledge of consumer dispute resolution mechanisms hamper the functioning of the internal market. Many consumers avoid cross-border purchases because they are not convinced that possible conflicts with traders could be resolved in a simple way. This harms competitiveness, growth and job creation in the Union. For the completion of the internal market, it is essential to remove direct and direct obstacles to its proper functioning and the confidence of citizens. The European Union has therefore decided to regulate the issue. To this end, Directive 2013/11/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on the alternative settlement of consumer disputes ensuring the implementation of EU Regulation No. 524/2013 on online dispute resolution. The Directive is implemented in the national legal order by means of a proposal for a law on out-of-court resolution of consumer disputes. In the domestic legal order, so far there have been only individual forms of out-of-court dispute resolution in certain economic areas. These are electronic communications and postal services, energy, banking and insurance services and consumer credit. From a legal point of view, sectoral special laws in particular economic areas should follow the systematic resolution of the law on out-of-court resolution of consumer disputes, in the same or comparable way and deal with each other in a coherent manner, except where there are grounds for differentiation. Therefore, minor harmonisations are proposed in the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Consumer Credits, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Postal Services, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications, the Proposal for a Law amending the Energy Act, the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Investment Funds and Companies for Management, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Payment Services and Systems. In the interests of substantive coherence, changes must be implemented simultaneously. The procedure for resolving consumer disputes of low economic value and a large number of disputes is conceived by the law as a confidential specialised procedure. It will be used to resolve disputes between undertakings and consumers regarding the sale of goods or the management of services that have not been resolved through negotiations between parties. The procedure will normally be free of charge for the consumer, except for the fee fixed by the operator with a maximum value of EUR 20. The minimum amount of the subject matter is EUR 30; the dispute will be resolved by a third neutral person who, in a non-judicial structured procedure, helps the parties to reach an agreement, mediation or mediation, proposes a solution or settlement to the dispute or even a binding decision of the so-called decommissioning procedure. The parties to the procedure will be the provider, e.g. the trader and the consumer. The offerer will inform the consumer of the out-of-court dispute resolution operator or warn him that he does not provide for an out-of-court dispute resolution operator and the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology will take care of the quality of the operators. They will offer their services as a market service that the company can or will not hire. The development of well-functioning mechanisms in the out-of-court resolution of consumer disputes is necessary to consolidate the situation of consumers in the internal market and thereby strengthen their confidence in online trade in particular. Measures to promote the establishment of appropriate mechanisms for the out-of-court resolution of consumer disputes are important in Member States with overburdened courts or those with large judicial backlogs. That is why in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre we have decided to support the proposal for a law on out-of-court resolution of consumer disputes, together with amendments to laws in specific economic areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u16	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Honorable representatives of the government! We have before us the consideration of the so-called package of laws of amendment and the completion of the law on out-of-court resolution of consumer disputes, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on postal services, the proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on Electronic Communications, the proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on Investment Funds and Management Companies, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Payment Services and the proposal for a law on amendments to the Energy Act. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that all these amendments and additions to the proposed laws will help to manage the issue more effectively and in particular more effectively. On the other hand, these bill proposals will undoubtedly also allow for faster work and better protection of the end-user. We are convinced that it is important that all the European directives providing for this matter be included in these amendments to the laws and amendments. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, however, we are also aware that a certain part of these changes and additions can in one way increase bureaucratic barriers and, in particular, impose certain additional activities on micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, which will burden both financially and, I would say, with certain bureaucratic obstacles. From this title, we have also drafted an amendment to the law on the out-of-court resolution of consumer disputes in the Slovenian Democratic Party to remove or reduce these obstacles, thereby reducing the financial burden mainly on micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. Last but not least, we will not oppose this package of proposed amendments and the amendment of the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Ms Marinka Levičar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u18	Thank you, Chairman. Nice greeting to you invited and to you, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! We have before us a bill of engagement and laws that will bring our legislation regulating various forms of out-of-court dispute resolution into line with the European Directive. In the Desus Group, we will support amendments to the laws for two main reasons. The first is that their enforcement will allow the courts to be unloaded, and the second is based on our awareness that there is a significant imbalance between the provider and the consumer in economic power, so that we will protect the consumer. An out-of-court dispute settlement means that a third neutral person in a non-judicial structured procedure helps the parties reach an agreement. An obligation is laid down for the tenderer to inform the operator of the out-of-court resolution of disputes recognised by him before the conclusion of the contract or to warn him that he does not provide the operator responsible for the resolution of their consumer disputes. Persons who will lead out-of-court dispute resolution procedures will have to meet the standards of professional competence and impartiality governed by the umbrella law. The out-of-court resolution of disputes arising from online purchases, in particular cross-border, will also be facilitated. To this end, the European Commission will establish a European platform for online dispute resolution that will provide consumers and providers with a single entry point to resolve disputes. With regard to the exemption from the voluntary participation of tenderers in the proceedings, it should be stated that the sectoral laws on consumer credit, payment services and systems and the amendments to the Energy Act provide for mandatory cooperation of tenderers in the field governed by them. Offerers from specific economic areas covered by the sectoral laws will have at their disposal six months to comply with the provisions of the umbrella law. We believe that the six-month period from the entry into force of the law to its harmonisation is long enough to choose an out-of-court consumer dispute resolution operator to change the general terms, notices and to prepare publications on the websites. For the above reasons, we will support the bill in the Desus Group and the other regional laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! In front of us is a package of laws that regulates the same matter by its content, this is a solution to consumer disputes, and therefore the College's decision to give a common position on all laws was fully justified. The law on out-of-court resolution of consumer disputes transposes the European Union Directive on alternative dispute resolution into the Slovenian legal order and ensures the implementation of the Regulation on online dispute resolution. The adoption of the proposed law on out-of-court resolution of consumer disputes and other accompanying laws introduces transparency and integrity into our legal order. The amendments and additions to those laws are thus necessary in order to comply with the Directive governing the out-of-court resolution of consumer disputes relating to contractual bond relations arising from sales contracts and service contracts, including online sales and online services. The proposed law regulates out-of-court disputes between providers of goods and services and consumers at systemic level. In this way, consumers and suppliers in all economic areas are provided with the possibility of quick, affordable, easy and efficient out-of-court resolution of domestic and cross-border consumer disputes in classical and online trade. In view of the increasing number of judicial proceedings in civil matters and backlogs, which are gradually decreasing in most Slovenian courts, the enforcement of out-of-court dispute resolution is of great importance to the functioning of the legal system in its entirety. The law lays down general rules for the out-of-court resolution of consumer disputes and the conditions and principles to be met by operators of out-of-court dispute resolution regardless of whether their founder is a State or a person of private law. The aim of the legal settlement of consumer disputes between providers of goods and services and consumers is to encourage the widest possible use of such a form of consumer dispute resolution that will help to better resolve disputes for consumers and tenderers, with the third neutral helping parties reach an agreement in a non-judicial procedure, proposing a settlement or making a binding decision on the dispute. It is also provided for the obligation of the tenderer to inform the consumer, in an appropriate manner, of the competent operators for the resolution of consumer disputes prior to the conclusion of the contract, or to warn him that he does not provide such an operator. The bill also provides for a sufficiently wide margin of manoeuvre to allow a wide range of out-of-court consumer dispute resolution operators to be established on the market, with the practice of this in the European space being very diverse, as it covers mechanisms within economic-interest associations, specialised arbitration for the resolution of consumer disputes, ombudsmen, consumer complaints committees or private mediators. Contractors may be financed from public or private resources, in which case, when the economic associations are financed, effective safeguards are established to preserve the independence of the operators. The Social Democrats will propose a package of laws to support, but we will not support the amendments drafted by the opposition parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Dr. Franc Trček will present the position of the Joint Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, chairman. A respected choir! In Slovenia, consumers among all countries of the European Union have the lowest level of confidence in public institutions. This shows the European Commission's survey last month, this year's September. The fact is that consumer protection, consumer legislation compared to other countries in Slovenia is extremely malnourished and often consciously neglected. This is also evidenced by the proposal for a bill of protection that we are dealing with; it is weak, ineffective and inadequately transposes the directives on the resolution of consumer disputes. Of course, such a law cannot be supported. Therefore, in the United Left we propose corrections that eliminate at least the discriminatory fee and the limit of the value of the consumer dispute. The establishment of an alternative system for the resolution of consumer disputes is, of course, a goal that should be supported not only because of the burden of the judiciary but also because of the subordination of the consumer in legal knowledge, economic power and ultimately experience. These are on the side of business providers, corporations. The out-of-court resolution of disputes may enable a better position for the consumer, but this is, of course, dependent on the approach and the way in which such a mechanism is implemented. As the Slovenian Union of Consumers warns, I quote, "it does not allow the establishment of an effective system, but provides a basis for the proper establishment of providers of these services, as if it were a new service or business area", the end of the quote. This warning from the Slovenian Consumers Association is, of course, alarming. Instead of a mechanism to protect the consumer, a new business activity will be created that will obviously serve in the event of a consumer accident or a violation of our consumer rights. The law does not answer the key questions about the form of consumer dispute resolution providers, whether it will be one person or a collective body, the way in which disputes are resolved, will be advice, mediation or judgment, and what the consequences of decisions will be. The law merely provides that the contractor may charge EUR 20 for this. That the Ministry's leadership was to take care of the market, the words of Secretary of State Margareta Guček Zakošek, quote, "the maximum price for consumers is 20 euros, could be lower, the procedure can be free if the person who does so decides." In short, it is the contractor who will decide whether or not to serve with a particular activity. This means that consumers will get on the other hand some people who want to make money because of the disorder that this legislation is trying to introduce, but of course confusion and inefficiency. We will get an area that literally calls for abuse, and there will certainly not be a standardised single system of out-of-court consumer dispute resolution that would actually benefit consumers in ensuring their or our rights. How will the consumer choose the contractor? Who will even trust the entire system of out-of-court consumer dispute resolution? The success of the system depends, of course, on its credibility, so operators should not only be professional but should clearly represent the interests of consumers. This is illustrated by good examples from abroad, where the authorities are composed of both consumer representatives and tenderers and are led by an independent president. All of this shows that the objective of consumer protection was simply not in the foreground of this law, that the bill does not provide control over the performance of the operators, and that the response of the drafters is that the MGRT, the department responsible, will have the opportunity to call operators, remedy irregularities and even delete them from the register within three months. This, of course, means almost nothing in practice, but if we know that the effectiveness and competence of those who conduct the procedures will be assessed by the operators themselves and control will only be a form of formality in the form of a report to the Ministry. It is important to mention further the conclusion of the Slovenian Consumer Union that there is no effective out-of-court mechanism in Slovenia. The adoption of a roof law also amends the entire package of laws which have already been incorporated into a similar mechanism; at least one of these laws provides a positive example, which should apply to consumers in terms of costs in the statutory law. This is a novelty of the Energy Act, which says that "the procedure for the out-of-court resolution of disputes for domestic customers will be free of charge or, if I am a little more precise, the costs of the procedure will be borne by the electricity supplier or the association of electricity suppliers." End of quote. These are, of course, not all the concerns that we can express when we propose legislation and amend other laws in this package. Again, it is reckless, to a large extent mechanically transcribing the European directive, which we have been looking at for more than a year now, which, together with such and different interests and an obvious belief in the almighty market mechanism, is linked to some hybrid. Among other things, the Secretary of State said that the market would take care of the rest, and her co-worker said that since we were introducing this for the first time, we would be softer. You can go check the magnetogram. This will very likely exacerbate consumer confidence and also ensure the enforcement of consumer rights. In Slovenia, the importance of consumer rights is simply not aware enough and after 20 years it would be time to start them. We are adopting extremely important laws or a package of legislation, and the role of consumer organisations has been virtually negligible, as is their role in the mechanism of out-of-court resolution of consumer disputes that this legislation introduces, although the European Directive allows and recommends what I have said before. In the United Left, we propose amendments to the law, which will at least improve the situation of consumers in resolving disputes in key places. Unfortunately, we have already heard from some presentations by the coalition's parliamentary groups that you will not support this, but we are still calling on all the parliamentary groups to support both of our amendments. You know, lastly, we, Members and Members of Parliament, are all consumers. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u23	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the supplementary draft laws to paragraphs 8, 9, 10, 12 and 13 have not been tabled, no amendments have been adopted by the parent labour body to the proposal for amending the Law on Investment Funds and Management Companies under point 11 and therefore no amendments can be tabled at the meeting of the National Assembly, and I conclude the second reading of those proposals. The vote on these bill proposals will take place on Wednesday, 21st, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. Ten. 2015 in the framework of the votes. However, amendments have been tabled in the draft law on the out-of-court resolution of consumer disputes under point 7 and will be discussed after the end of agenda items 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13. So I interrupt the 8th, 9th, 10th, 11th, 12th, and 13th. Continue with item 7 of the agenda – second reading of the draft law on out-of-court settlement of consumer disputes under the ordinary procedure We are moving on to a debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. Ten. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am putting to the debate Article 11 and the amendment of the Joint Left Group. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Dr. McKinley. Franz Runk, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. I've got a lot of time. As I have concluded before; of course we are all consumers or in this country, society will find it difficult to find some people who live Robinsonically to be excluded from the consumer chain, if I say so myself. In short, from one child, who is two years old and you give him half the euro, two to go to buy ice cream, to what kind of home from Maribor or a whip from Koroška or a grandmother from the White Country who pays the bill for electricity with difficulty, let alone to understand all that – I call it poetry in prose – how the bill is drawn up. The starting point of the United Left was that for consumers such an out-of-court form of dispute resolution should be free of charge, as regulated by the Energy Act already mentioned in the amendment. This good purpose of ours was, of course, taken to a meeting of the home work bodies, the image also took place with the proposal of the Slovenian Consumers' Union, which proposed that this fee should amount to EUR 5. The European Directive speaks about the fact that this fee could be 30 euros or less, the people from the department ministry are somehow at a meeting when we discussed the roof law, they said that it could be 30 euros and we decided for 20 and they almost expected us to pay them for it, but 20 euros is – you know what the pension is like in Slovenia, you know what the dynamics of wages are, we talked about the minimum wage just now and we will – obviously too much for someone. Therefore, in the United Left we once again table an amendment to Article 11 of the Law, which states that in paragraph 3 the number 20 is replaced by 5. In short, we are proposing an amendment proposed by the Slovenian Consumers' Union, since this would discourage, in particular, lower-income consumers from arbitration and would support bad practices in a whole range of activities – more on the amendment to Article 16. I hope that reason and social sense will prevail and that this amendment, with which I personally and the United Left are not satisfied, because, as I said before, our starting proposal was that this is free for consumers, because in this way we also force the other side to behave fair. I know that there may be some objection here that there is a whole range of smaller activities that would be difficult to afford such activities – I am talking mainly about craftsmanship, services that can be organised and afforded through industries or, if you want, crafts and similar relationships. In short, I won't be too long. I think I've explained enough plastic on behalf of the United Left why we're amendments. People from the Union of Consumers of Slovenia and also certain regional consumer organisations of associations have said very supervisoryly at the meetings of the committee what I am saying here, and I hope that here, although it is a rather cloudy day, it will shine a little light of reason.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mrs. Andreja Potočnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u26	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. I would like to refer to the implementation of my predecessor's 20-euro price and their 5-euro proposal. I believe, personally or on behalf of the Group of Members, that the proposal must be balanced, both for the consumer side and for the business party itself. If the price is too low, the consumer may, by means of its claims, obstruct the individual business entity. What does that actually mean? It means this institute can be abused. Example. We've got some clothes or some kind of high-priced shoe. I'm wearing it for a year, and after one year, I come back and say I'd like to change this thing because my case broke. And I wore it for a year. And I can do it all the time and all the time. Both sides need to be looked at, not always on one side. Let me stress that this is a market price and a maximum of 20 euros. Since this is a market service, IRPS will also fight for market customers, which means that the performance of this organisation will depend on both the quality of services and the price. This means that 20 euros is not necessarily 20 euros, but we are merely limiting the maximum price with this law. I therefore believe that the United Left item is not balanced and we will not support it in this context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u27	Anybody else want to discuss this? Mrs. Violeta Tomic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. Now I'm going to get myself involved in my predecessor's debate. This law or coalition seeks to protect manufacturers and sellers in every way. However, I think it is the intention to protect the consumer, however, because this title of the law lists the consumer as the one to be protected in this case. The case you filed is, I have to say, very bad, I'm a woman, and after one year of wearing shoes, I would never go to advertise shoes, but I would go to advertise them the day I bring them home, and I know it's not enough for the criteria. So if the price of the dispute resolution is 20 euros and you say that a lower price is allowed – who for God's sake is able to charge 20 euros will charge 5 euros? This is marred by the common sense and knowledge of human nature, which unfortunately tends to profit. That is why we support the initiative of the Union of Consumers, which has proposed EUR 5, because we know how some people live, and EUR 20 is such that many prefer to swallow dumplings, throw away the matter that they bought, away, in the trash, spend money, as if they were going to pay 20 euros even for a service that, as you said, could even be free. However, when it is said, it is 20 euros, but it can also be 5 or free, then you know how much people will pay for it. In short, this is contrary to the fundamental principle of this law, which should be that the consumer procedure is free of charge. That is why I call again on you to support our proposal and our amendment, and yet to come somewhere in one environment, not to leave out the open, how someone will decide and how much they will count, but to accept and confirm our amendment and that the amount is EUR 5. 5 euros is what a person can pay and what is one, for example, a symbolic value, but it is nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The State Secretary to the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology mag. Margareta Guček Zakošek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u30	Thank you, Madam Vice President! The government wants to be defined by this amendment and we do not agree with or support the proposed amendment. Once again, we believe that the contractor of out-of-court consumer disputes has a discretionary right to decide whether or not to impose a fee and the company is the one who then chooses the contractor. So if the company considers that its consumers are such consumers that they are not able to pay EUR 20, but they want 10, 5 or 0, they will choose on the market the operator who will not charge the fee for this, and as much as possible. So, irrespective of the wording of Mr Trček's quote from the Committee's meeting, I still insist that the market be determined between the operators in what way the fee will or will not be charged. Personally, I do not believe that all operators will want to charge this, but they will, of course, want to see that this process is being used for unfair or improper purposes. This fee is also intended for this purpose; therefore, it follows the true cost-benefit ratio of the consumer in the event of an out-of-court solution. If its initiative is not taken into account or is not taken into account, the fee shall be fixed with a view to preventing false or speculative proposals. The contractor himself, once again, will decide whether or not to charge the fee and the company will choose the contractor. If consumers are older, unable to pay, I believe that companies will also be so determined that they will choose those operators who will not charge these fees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u31	Mr. Marko Ferruga has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u32	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting, Secretary of State! We must not forget one thing about all these amendments and all these matters. This is the pressure of some bountiful cases in court, and this law on out-of-court dispute resolution is also intended. But lowering ourselves into some big extreme stuff doesn't make sense to me. There are a lot of concerns about what Violet has said before that these are socially endangered, for example, problematic. But if we look, hand to heart, I say we drop this thing on such extremely low numbers, it seems to me that then we're going to go into some kind of argument for every matter and some kind of dispute-seeking. I think it's some quiet number that was posted by the government. And the second option that needs to be considered is essentially the first step towards some systemic resolution of all these matters that we did not have in Slovenia before. I view this as a positive matter, for which time will also indicate whether it makes sense or not to raise or raise these criteria. In fact, it is only that these first steps are taken and that we will actually see in practice how and how this will develop, whether this will apply and how much this will apply. I think that's still welcome. The law is also so loose that it will probably be able to adapt to all these matters and is one of the good points for some creativity in all of this. That was also the point of these rules, as far as I understand. As far as all other things are concerned, it's about simplicity, kind of a quick response to all of this, and that these mediators and all these sort of professionally qualified to be able to solve it. If we look at it this way, I think that both the consumer and also, in fact, on the other hand, the trader or any other legal person involved is in the interest of settling these disputes as soon as possible. That's the point of us speeding it up, and at the same time, we sort of solve it, as far as the court is concerned, that this stuff doesn't go into some long-term lawsuit, because we know what these procedures are then in court, and no one actually has any of them. That is why I think it is very important that we simply allow this simplicity somehow to be resolved as quickly as possible and get some results. I think that's the essence of this law, which otherwise interferes with all other matters. Here I see one positive step by the Ministry of Economy, which wants to make it possible, let's say, to breathe this economy more at all levels. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. This magnetogram will be very interesting because I will be able to tell my students: Look, this is an ideology in the most classical form, although SMC claims to themselves that they are a post-ideological party. Let's say it's not a coincidence that they chose an explanation of the law on the shoe case, I quote, "higher price grade", not the shoes you buy on sale. Usually, you know, my colleague, the prices of a higher price class have what you've been explaining, they're already priced, and that's how much I know about the economy. The president of the Committee on the Economy said that market party organisations would fight, which makes it very clear with what focus this coalition had on adopting this legislation. In short, it's not the consumer, it's some new market opening. We recently had a marriage where there was a riot, uh, if the pensioners don't bring the stock there, it'll be the end of the world, and you won't get anything. That's the same logic. The secretary of state said, "I believe there will be companies." I believe that NK Maribor will be the champion again, but it is not necessarily this year. My colleague Ferlug said, "written loosely, creatively." You know, we can be creative, I don't know, Violet at the theater. We have to write laws unrelentingly, enunciatedly and emanating from hegemony, and hegemon is a people. What we are amendments to is not Violet and I have remembered because we have nothing better to do than impose coalitions, but this is actually the call of a whole range of civil society-related citizens and citizens who are finally aware of consumer rights after a quarter of a century and who want to be properly regulated. And you have made some very superficial reading of the directives, and you are under pressure from some of the more powerful lobbyists, somehow accepting or accepting what you will accept. However, the people have the United Left as a human party in Parliament and we will continue to do what we do. Of course, I am aware that there is a danger that Mark has put on the other side, but if this business is fair, there is relatively little of it, but you can never completely rule it out. I was on the other side, too. But with some positive attitude towards customers, if I put it that way, you can amortize those — someone would say — patients. In short, I call once again for you to support this amendment, which we are actually investing on behalf of a whole range of civil society initiatives, the links that deal with consumer protection. I must say that if I put on the side of this umbrella Union of Slovenian Consumers, it is mainly about some initiatives that have taken place and in which there are active especially retired ladies who have finally understood where they are going, according to their own words. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u35	Thank you. Ms Mag, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, has the floor. Margareta Guček Zakošek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u36	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Because it seems to me that some of the dilemmas from the previous talk have remained open, but not in the replica, but in explaining the matter. Today we are not considering the Consumer Protection Act. We all have to be aware of that. The Consumer Protection Act is a statutory law governing the substantive rights of consumers, and we must say that consumer rights in Slovenia are comparatively high. Today we adopt a law or you accept it on the out-of-court resolution of consumer disputes and two parties, two parties – consumers and businesses – represent the operators. It must be said that it is a matter of resolving disputes, that the parties in the proceedings are equal, equal, as before the court, and that the contractor must have both confidence. And that's the point. We are not talking only about consumer protection and priority. We have several stakeholders and there is an economy and companies too. That's how I'd really like to define myself here. It's about writing laws. Thus, it was not a matter of mechanical copying of the directive. If this was the case, this marriage would be written in a completely different way. It was a rescue or search for solutions that would be most appropriate both for businesses and for consumers, and that is also shown by amendments. While the United Left is proposing amendments to get as close as possible, perhaps this consumer resolution, which we understand and in some way support, we are looking for a path that will be good not least for a successful solution, so that the abuse that will occur will be as little as possible. On the other hand, the Slovenian Democratic Party is proposing an amendment where companies are not supposed to mark – in the event that they do not recognise this type of rescue – anywhere else, which is the second extreme. In this way, consumers are not insured if they do not know when to buy a product, whether this company is solving this dispute or not. We want to be transparent, and we want to be in the middle, where we will best solve the issue both for consumers and for businesses and with transparency we protect consumers, while at the same time providing some boundaries that should be the basis for as little abuse of the system as possible. However, we want to see as many disputes resolved as possible in an out-of-court resolution and to see settlement proceed as quickly and as conveniently as possible, because we know what it is like to have to go to court. Thus this dissatisfaction in some way of the Slovenian Consumer Union and the Economic Chambers on the other hand, we have seen on the committee how the debate took place, shows us that somewhere this middle way, which we also intended to achieve, has been achieved. I'd like to say more about form. It has been said many times that the form of rescue is not determined. The Union of Consumers of Slovenia addressed this because it advocates collective resolution, says one authority, one Senate, where consumer representatives, representatives of the company and mediator would participate. We do not believe that strict prescribing of such a form is necessary, because a certain out-of-court solution can be resolved in a simpler way with one mediator, but it is not said that such a Senate system of companies cannot be implemented. This allows for an opportunity, and this is this elastic and flexibleness that I believe Mr Ferruga was talking about. I hope that I have now responded to most of these dilemmas, perhaps which have already been exposed, even though it was not just this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In order not to go with arguments to one side or the other, I will make those fundamental arguments, which has led to this directive in the European Parliament and the chronology of this matter at all. We've got 14 minutes, so let's get started. The matter is also essentially at the Slovenian party. In case C-4 189/07 Pia Messner v. Stephan Kröger – it is a case of judicata where one of the internet providers bought a computer, I think it was a laptop and this notebook got home, used it for a while and this notebook was kind of canceled. He wanted to enforce a certain guarantee, which I think the company had provided him, and this company said that this guarantee essentially took into account that it was within that period, but that it had to pay for this laptop he was using, I think a month or so, a utility. This utility was charged by this company several times more than this person even gave for this notebook. Thus, the case began in the courts, in particular the problem of BGB, the German civil code, which was extremely outdated with regard to internet sales, distance sales. On this matter – I apologize for having in German – because I remembered when I was studying the case-laws of the Court of Justice of the European Community, in particular the work of our Attorney General, Dr. Vera Trstenjak, that this was one of the most receptive cases, one of Dr. Veronica Trstenjak's outstanding quality cases. Take a look at it online, i.e. Pia Messner v Stephan Kröger; I could say that somehow harmonisation of European law and in particular of this law, resolution of this directive, and resolution of alternative consumer disputes in such matters have begun. Ms Trstenjak also wrote in this regard, inter alia, in the recital to the directive, because the consumer cannot at that time see the product or see the type of service provided before the conclusion of the contract, where the right to withdraw the contract must be prescribed, unless otherwise provided for in this Directive. Since this right must be more than formal, the costs for the consumer exercising the right to withdraw from the contract must be limited to the direct costs of returning goods, since this right must be waived without prejudice to the consumer's right and so on. It therefore indicated the solution and concluded that a directive should be adopted, that most national consumer legislation, i.e. consumer protection, including those countries which have so-called civil codes, that they are extremely outdated and that the development of new technologies, in particular the area of internet sales, postal services and all laws coming into Parliament today, is under question. On the one hand, they are following, as the Secretary of State said here today, consumer protection, and also some rights of those who are essentially selling goods. That's chronology. This is the chronology of this directive, so it started; so it is not only this case, I have too little time, we can talk about more judicata, so I mentioned the case C — 489/07 Pia Messner v. Stefan Kröger. This was one of the most resonant matters, so look at this chronology before you even discuss it. I think it is important that you be aware of what falling behind also means in national legislation for all the technology that is coming today. We are part of a global economy and online sales, including all other matters relating to all these five laws, are extremely important for the development of the economy. This is why it is important where this directive came from, on what it came from, and I must admit that the debates in the European Parliament were also quite broad. Somehow they were in the stage of protecting the consumer and, on the one hand, this is precisely the case, where Verica Trstenjak pointed out as a state defender a solution – that is, a special body of the state's defence attorney, the lawyer has one special function in the European Community court – perhaps we do not know that. We only know the defense, on the one hand, and the prosecution, but here is a third body that deals directly, which suggests solutions. From this judicature and a few others like this, this directive has emerged in the European Parliament, and this directive is the basis of all that we are talking about today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The word has Mrs. Violeta Tomic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. I would only refer to the previous information that Mrs State Secretary has given us. In fact, I am very happy and surprised that you have not already besieged us with the populists today, because whenever we take a stand in the United Left for a small man, a citizen of Slovenia, we always hear that we are populists and, on the other hand, all of you who advocate capital – is fine. That's why I would remind the Secretary of State that it's completely illogical what she said. In fact, you're always trying for some middle road and the contractors are supposed to represent consumers and businesses. It is important that the parties are equal. I believe that's your purpose. On the other hand, you say that an entity chooses an operator to resolve disputes and that the market will determine between operators – I mean, what market will it determine? The contractor will then decide whether or not to count. I mean, listen, that's illogical. I know we're in a minority again, I know we have very little chance of this amendment going through because the coalition has decided that way, but hope dies last; I still urge you to support our amendment. And I'll save the rest of the time for the next amendment we're going to propose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u41	The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. I don't mean to be rude, but there's really no need for anyone in the executive branch to teach me what law we're adopting. I say a lot of things out of my mind, even from my heart, if I was directly translating an English phrase, but not "applause" something into my mind. Both I and our experts read all the legislation in great detail. There was a logic here that I've heard many times before, and I admit it really bothers me. The State Secretary said by suggesting something, the Union of Consumers of Slovenia is unhappy, the Chamber of Commerce is unhappy – oh, we probably found some middle way. In short, we are going to bring this society somewhere in this way the government and the coalition, if everyone is unhappy, is great. You know, we've been a dysfunctional non-excessively large family for 20 years, and I don't think that's a good way. The other thing is the market up, down. In some of these relatively small economies in many areas, the market does not work purely because of economies of scale, because you have monopolistic situations, you have some minor oligopolistic situations, you have cartel negotiations and so on, that is clear to us. Not to burn too much time, somehow when I'm listening to speeches from the department, you're MGRT, the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. But when I listen to you, I often get the feeling that you are just an extension of the Chamber of Commerce – a question of how representative it is or not. Member Breznik pointed out an important aspect of why this legislation should be adopted – if we leave the advertisement aside, the advertising of a lady, which I do appreciate, although I am from another ideological spectrum – especially because of the development of so-called e-commerce, where it is often also some relatively lower amounts after economies of scale and I see no reason for Slovenia to be one of the leading countries here. In short, once again, I urge you to support our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Lord Igor Zorčič, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. I see this debate in the same way as the debates on court fees, because they are too low once, too high once, and the aim of the increase has always been to somehow reduce the pressure on the courts. We are placed in another parallel situation where, in addition to perhaps having relatively high court fees for some, we introduce this procedure of out-of-court consumer dispute resolution, and if this is one of the instruments that consumers will use to resolve their disputes outside the courts, it is also one tool to reduce pressure on the courts. What is essential in this is; it is said that the United Left is proposing an amendment that this dispute fee should be reduced. They say we're slandering them with populists, but it's not like they're ever gonna deny you to me with populists because you're fighting for a little man if you don't want me. It is that you interpret this explanation in one way that is unacceptable to us; and this is that 5 Euros is better quality for a small person than 20 Euros. If I return to court disputes; lower than the fee, there will be more of these disputes, these intermediaries will be more smothered. Finally, we need to know that even if we give it for free, absolutely free, it will eventually be known somewhere, either through the prices of companies or on the stands maybe for everything, but nothing is free anymore today. That is why, according to our assessment, this limit of EUR 20 is the one that is completely reasonable and that will also ensure that these conflicts will not go beyond a reasonable limit, eventually hindering or weakening the quality of those who are more justified and will be resolved through this system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u45	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u46	I'll be very brief. If I look at this contradiction, Madam Secretary of State – SMC, we see very clearly why this legislation is being introduced as it is being introduced. Because the lobbying on the side of the bidders as the chickens on the run shook, let's make it soft, otherwise the "crazy" will push us too hard. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Škodnik, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u48	Have a nice hello to you all. It has already been said that this resolution of these conflicts in Europe is very different across countries; one has a more comprehensive solution, the other is worse. Only now that we are in the European Union, Slovenia must also contribute in some way and resolve the matter in some way. I'd say such small things that are being handled in a store are often managed without some to be saved in a store. So that things like this that have already been resolved will now be done in some way. But we also have things that are of greater value. At that time, the 20 euros are likely to be too small. It is therefore necessary to include some value in this law, which will enable everyone. These 20 euros are clearly stated to be the maximum amount. It can be smaller, of course. This would not lead to a debate, because I think that things are very transparent, so that these things will contribute to the well-being of all consumers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss the amendment to Article 11? Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u50	In the meantime, I am thinking and very dangerous is the logic expressed by Mr Zorčič on behalf of SMC. It is logical that the quality of dispute resolution will depend on the amount of money you will give to do so. In this way, what is the distribution of social well-being or, if you want, poverty in Slovenia, you have already excluded half a million people from such forms of rescue today. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u52	I do not agree with the implementation of my colleague Trcko just now because we are not talking about the difference, I do not know 200 euros, but about the difference of 15 euros. That's not how it's done.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u53	Thus, the debate on the amendment to Article 11. Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u54	Look, I'll be very visual. My mother has a full-time pension of €447, which is 15 euros. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u55	Thank you. Anyone else want to discuss article 11 of the amendment? No, no, no. Because no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 16 and the amendment of the United Left Group. Anybody want to talk? Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u56	In Article 16, we propose to delete in the second paragraph the third indent, which states that the settlement operator may refuse the requirements if the price of the goods is lower than EUR 30. As I have already said today, as consumer associations have said, it is some discrimination that places a limit of more than 30 euros, as a whole range of products, in particular the so-called economies of scale – in particular those products that are mostly brought from China by ships, go half-empty and drive the trash, but that is a little too long – within this below 30 euros. Once again, you will exclude people who are 30 euros or 40 euros of an early range, or who are 40 euros of luxury, and who are not below 20 euros. In short, this type of innovation does not in fact exclude some products, lower value services. After all, I am cut off in Maribor for a much lower amount than 30 euros, and they can cut off my ear if I do a little caricature. In short, I hope that you will also support this novel, although in view of this debate so far, it is not a good idea. But I am deeply saddened that Desus and SD remain silent about this. Probably for a reason. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u57	Anybody else want to discuss this? Mrs. Andreja Potočnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u58	Thank you. As far as the proposal for this amendment is concerned, we must also ask ourselves about the very practicality of the resolution. To resolve a dispute, costs arise. Someone's got to deal with this. Now let's compare the price of the product with EUR 5 and then just solve the dispute, which is certainly more expensive than EUR 5. Well, things need to be seen in a multi-layered way, not just on one side. But it doesn't mean we don't protect the so-called little man. You forget in this story that a small person is also a company, a micro-enterprise that struggles daily to survive and earns its wages, including a small person, not just a consumer. It also seems to me in a sense to be misleading the citizens who are listening to us now. The company, micro, p.p. isn't a small man or what?Oh, my God! Let's look at things in a multi-layered way! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u59	Dr. Franz Runk, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u60	I am very glad that SMC has come to the point that things are not single-layered and black-white, that they are multi-layered. My colleague obviously didn't listen to me before, because I made it very clear that I am aware of this, and also a small man, p. p., a craftsman, an entrepreneur who is hard to survive, is also a consumer in a chain of business to business. He may also buy some queens there that cost.87 cents, and he realizes that these nuts suck when he gets the complaint back. So if we're talking in a way, we're talking in a multi-layered way. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u61	Franz Breznik has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u62	I'm going back to the Court of Justice of the European Communities. Let me say that the issue of these directives was at the time – therefore, it is a matter of extremely complex matters. This is precisely why this alternative dispute resolution should be a compromise in, say, this particular online sale. The case cited by Comrade Trček was, for example, why 30 euros. This is where I have to stand partly on his side. For what? First, look, Internet sales make it possible, say, if I take a plastic example of purchasing, say, some snow shovels from China's questionable quality, I sell them online and I can sell them, I don't know, 10, 20, 50 thousand of these shovels in the shortest possible time. This shovel may cost 10 or 15 euros because I bought it for a euro or two. These buyers who got this shovel find after a certain time that this shovel does not meet those qualitative standards – and what now? So, 50,000 shovels sold in a month, times 10 euros per shovel, is a fraud of 100,000 euros and more. That is exactly what these new technologies are capable of. Not to mention other problems that have been encountered in other judgments in this court and which have resulted again in this directive; for example, excessive wear-down. I'm going online to buy some clothes for some festive events. Like a tuxedo. This tux by every logic I overuse – even such cases have – so, every day I wear a tuxedo, I don't know, 24 hours, and I wear it a month and a month later send it back and advertise it because it doesn't meet some qualitative standards. I don't know, the suit has special peeling material, robbery and so on. Such cases have already been brought before the courts and such cases have been dealt with by national legislation in Germany, Austria and later, after the case has come before the Court of Justice of the European Communities, also there. I must admit that it is precisely because of the complexity of the matters to which I am pointing now that perhaps the debate, the arguments for and against where these limits of consumer protection are, the ones we are buying on the Internet, and where there is also some right of that – in this case, I turn once again to the right of the one who made the dress – to over-exploit the material, through all the known circumstances and facts. Here I would draw attention to a moderate medium, on the one hand, and on the other hand those who are a priori against some alternative resolution, I just need to remind you of Slovenian courts operating with extraordinary backlogs, the price of all this, judicial proceedings. Here I draw attention to the third point: the essence of this Directive is also to set up a European common market and the European common market operates between Member States with different laws and has a different history of this legislation. Even in one country, in a nation, it is also based on its ethics and everything else that the law develops. That is precisely why this Directive is necessary, on the one hand, and such a dispute resolution system. But it is a matter of debate, a matter of argument and a matter of those living circumstances that I am now discussing to find out where this limit is. I'm talking about two cases, like, some plastic snow shovels, because now is the time where we could actually make an extremely high-quality fraud and where we haven't legally met certain standard conditions and we haven't protected consumers. This debate seems to me to be in place and some serious compromises need to be sought on such amendments as the United Left has now made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u63	Thank you. The word has magic. Ms Margareta Guček Zakošek, State Secretary, Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u64	Thank you. As far as online sales are concerned, a possible supplement. The online resolution of consumers will also be somewhat different. This is about Member States establishing a network at European level as a network of contact IT points and the issue can be resolved through the so-called IT platform. This way of saving will be over what we are talking about now; it is said that above this limit and there this limit will not matter. This is because the European platform for online dispute resolution will allow consumers to lodge a complaint using an electronic form that will be available in all official languages of the European Union, with all necessary annexes, free electronic case management tools that will enable the consumer dispute resolution provider to conduct the dispute resolution process and the electronic translation function exclusively through an online dispute resolution platform. All of this will take place through a national point, i.e. MGRT, so that there is no need for this concern regarding this border. I'd still like to define myself by the amendment. The government does not support it or proposes to be rejected by the National Assembly. Why? The purpose of setting the lower threshold of value as already defined as one of the possible exclusion conditions is to enable the company to decide and resolve the consumer dispute up to the value – if it so wishes and if it wishes to keep customers who would or would like to do so much – but wishes to prevent the possibility of unnecessary administrative burden on operators of out-of-court consumer disputes and thus ensure efficiency, which is not least mentioned in your discussion. I believe that the dilemma raised by Member Breznik has been explained in some way, but we believe that the border must be set precisely to effectively resolve disputes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Dr. Duck has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u66	I'm a little freaked out. Today I am listening: I believe, loosely, creatively, it can be brief, because something "will be easy", we do not need this amendment. [[…]] Then, here was the question of how Slovenia is actively involved in making this possible as soon as possible. As far as I know how almost no one thinks about the problem of the neutrality of the internet in Slovenia, at least in politics, I have little doubt that this "will be easy" [[...]] One more hit, which I think Mr. Breznik will point out. We live in an information society where we have so-called dynamic pricing. I'll give you a very plastic case. You can go with a low-cost air carrier somewhere, someone who'll order a ticket for a long time in advance, order it for 25 euros, and he'll get another Member or a nice Member to go with him, and he'll be that card we'll be buying three days before we leave, 200 euros. I hope we understand each other somehow. This debate kind of got into these e-waters. In particular, let us not forget the older population, which is slightly less sensitized about consumer rights and to which these matters also concern us. Even if you read the newspapers a little, someone shows up again or sells them by mail or comes to a home where they want these people, in their own words, to push. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Breznik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u68	Dear Secretary of State! The common European platform you were talking about is in fact also one derived from the platform of those who are buying on the Internet, which is already on the eBay platform, because there is already one, we can say, the initial solution or the resolution of those disputes, those two, the buyer and the seller, who has either some criticism or some disappointment over the product or then over the use. That's, I can tell you, some girl who's somehow been taught because we're always learning on some life cases. Maybe he pointed out a few other things like that. For example, there is also a very interesting example of online sales here on the European Parliament when you are buying certain magazines, certain software programs. Buy it, load it at home, and then you say you're stepping down from the contract, that it doesn't meet your standards, and you bring it back. Well, it's an extremely complex matter. This technology development has brought about an extremely complex issue and I am once again alerting, which is why it is important to discuss, and it is important to discuss in living cases that can happen to us daily. On the other hand, solutions may come a little late. In Slovenia too, it is extremely lagging, fortunately we did not have such major violations, major frauds after online sales. We've had one of those portals, like Bolch, for years. But I'm talking about this shortening time, on the one hand, when technology is progressing, on the other hand, that regulations, as a legislative branch of government, we are following it as soon as possible. There's also our personal problem, I can tell. We are far behind in implementing this directive. We are lucky that it has not happened to us but today we have an event where we have had the opportunity to act earlier, especially on refugees today, to prepare legislation, and we have not done this legislation because we have been – so we are causing great material damage to Slovenia and the citizens in this case. [[…]] I repeatedly point out that national legislation must be followed with the assistance of this Directive at the Court of Justice and in the European Parliament over the last few years, a number of issues relating to consumer disputes, with regard to alternative dispute resolution, in the context of living conditions in this 500 million-million-dollar society of nations. [[…]] On the one hand, I can say that this is necessary and, on the other hand, it is necessary to identify the circumstances of life previously explained by my colleague Trček and my colleague Tomičeva, which are living circumstances. In the case that I have just mentioned when I came back — an example of magazines, for example. So, you order a magazine on the Internet, read it, pack it back, and say that either an example of software, it's respect for copyright via online sales and so on. [[…]] We've got a whole palette opening up. [[…]] In particular, with my discussions, I would like some colleagues and colleagues to open up a diaposo of thinking in the area of the amendment of this law and the implementation of this directive, because I think this is a matter for the future, especially because technology is making tremendous progress, on the one hand, extremely important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u69	Thank you. Mrs. Violeta Tomic has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u70	Thank you for your word. An arbitrary 30-euro border will discriminate against consumers who have paid a lower amount for a product. What if it happens to pay 28 euros or very popular 29.99? You know, it's not a small amount of money for someone who lives there with less than 500 euros a month, and there aren't very few in Slovenia that live like that. Here I agree with my colleague Trčko, here Desus could have called, because the pensioners have a huge amount of EUR 30. Even some sectors or parts of certain industries will fall out of consumer disputes due to the border, which means that suppliers will not be encouraged to do business and to resolve guarantees and errors in the way they are dealt with. Thus, many industries where products do not even reach higher values will not be included in the settlement system and then consumers will have to solve these things judicially, but we know that due to lack of knowledge and, above all, money, this is a rather difficult path, and we know that the courts are also involved in more important matters. So again, I urge you to support our amendment and to delete the indent so that the settlement operator can refuse the request if the price of the goods is lower than EUR 30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u71	Anyone else want to discuss the amendment to Article 16? No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 31 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I can see no one. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided tomorrow, Wednesday, 21st, according to the meeting's timetable. Ten. 2015, in the context of the votes This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 14. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS ANOTHER DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS OF THE AMENDMENTS TO THE DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT OF THE POMURY REGION IN THE PERIOD 2010-2015. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative or representative of the Government, Mag. Margareti Guček Zakošek, State Secretary, Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, once again! You have before you the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Development Support to the Pomurska Region for the period 2010-2015. In the law we propose to extend the period of implementation of the law for two years, that is to 31 years. 12. 2017, because we believe that some measures that have not yet been completed will be easier to complete during the extension period. Extension is also a key substantive amendment to the bill. It is accompanied by the harmonisation of the text due to changes in the organisation of the state administration and certain other institutions. At the time of the adoption of the law, the competent State authority was the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy. It is also proposed that, instead of mentioning the Regional Development Agency Mura, d.o.o., the general term of the law should be used by the competent regional development agency and that the funds intended to promote the development of the Pomeranian region should not be allocated for the production of studies, expertise, professional bases and similar documentation and for the conclusion of advisory contracts, which has already been voted on in some way at the SDS's amendment committee meeting. In recent years, the funds have not been used for this purpose, and I must stress, but in the future, if there is a need for any evaluation and study, the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology can provide funding for such activities from the Ministry's own resources, in the most economically efficient way. The reason for the delay in payments in the first years of implementation of the programme, as has already been said several times, was mainly in the initial activities that took a certain start-up time to begin with a greater intensity. In recent years, however, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has faced some budgetary constraints. Even in this year's national budget, we have been able to provide only some of the necessary resources for the implementation of the Programme for Promoting the Competitiveness of the Pomeranian Region in the period 2016-2017. The sixth paragraph of Article 4 of the Law explicitly stipulates that the programme must be fully implemented by 2015 but at a total value of EUR 33 million. We still believe that we will be able to provide them despite some budgetary cuts, including the Harmonised Regional Development Act. The implementation of this programme and law is also monitored through annual reports by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. We have also considered such in the committee on which this law was addressed, and we note in the 2014 report that most of the funding under the programme was actually earmarked for the first instrument, namely the promotion of initial investments by businesses and the creation of new jobs, which is of paramount importance. In the framework of this instrument, seven public calls have been made so far, by encouraging greater initial investment. Of the more exposed instruments, let us mention also instrument 4 – the promotion of the region to attract foreign and domestic investors. In some areas, reports and current statistics show a gradual improvement in the overall economic picture, but not to the extent that measures can be interrupted. Instruments of the programme have so far created thousands of 281 jobs under Instrument 1 and 399 from certain facilities. However, there is still a problematic high level of unemployment in Pomour and, above all, the structure of the unemployed. In July 2015, unemployment was 18.1%, 17.8% in September, and we are pleased to approach the border, which also sets the unemployment limit for measures also under the coherent regional development law. Following the adoption of the extended law, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will, in accordance with the proposed provisions within three months of the extension of the law, give the possibility to publish the first public tenders early in the spring of 2016. With the extension of the implementation period, positive trends will be further strengthened and an additional opportunity will be provided for any challenges that remain unrealised. The problem of double payment, which has been highlighted on the Committee, will also be rectified by proposing an amendment to the Harmonised Regional Development Act, which will no longer allow those regions to be subject to double legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mrs Andreja Potočnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u74	President, thank you for your word. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! The Committee on the Economy is at its 10th session. Ten. 2015 as a parent labour body, the proposal for a law amending the Law on Development Support to the Pomurska Region for the period 2010-2015 submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption. The Committee had before it the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development and the reply of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendments to the draft law were tabled by the SDS Group, the SMC Group, Desus and SD. The Committee was attended by representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, the Commission of the State Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development and the Legislative and Legal Service. In the introductory supplementary explanation, the representative of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology explained that the main solution to the proposal is to extend the implementation of the law by 2 years, which is up to 31. 12. 2017 and that this will have a favourable impact on the achievement of the objectives of the law. While most development support measures are expected to be implemented within the deadline. The delay is mainly due to the instruments of the programme to promote the competitiveness of the Pomeranian region 2010-2015, which envisages the implementation of some difficult instruments. As a result of changes to the organisation of the state administration, the entire text of the bill replaces the competent state authority "Service of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy" with the word "Ministry of Economic Development and Technology". The programme to promote the competitiveness of the Pomeranian region 2010-2015 is intended to bring the Government of the Republic of Slovenia into line with the provisions of this law within three months of its entry into force. In its opening statement, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service drew attention to the failure to comply within the law itself, which could be contrary to the rule of law as well as to the system law promoting coherent regional development. The Ministry replied that the internal consistency was maintained sufficiently and that only the extension of the period was allowed without any changes to the substantive solutions. As far as the relationship is concerned, the Government is planning changes to the system law itself, taking into account the comments made by the ZPS, which were also exposed at the meeting itself. In the debate, the members and members of the Committee highlighted some concerns about the functioning of individual institutions, in particular their impact on the development of the Pomur Region. It was clarified that MGRT is only a coordinator on many occasions and that the competences for the operation of certain institutions also apply to other resources. EU funds should be used better and agencies should play a greater role in linking individual municipalities. The primary objective, however, is to be the development of the region itself and not just protection, as it is only encouraging development that can lead the region to a higher level of economic activity in the long term. In accordance with Rule 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee addressed the amendments of the SDS Group of Members which it did not adopt, the amendments of SMC, Desus and SD, and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the text of the amended law, which includes the amendments adopted, is prepared. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Since the assembly held a general debate on the proposal for a law at its 10th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to the debate on the article and on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of the amendments tabled of 19. Ten. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the three amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. I apologize to you now. I pressed the table wrong. Please again, if I may, request a hearing, please. Mr. Franz Ly has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u76	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Honourable representative of the Ministry of Economics and Technological Development, dear colleagues and colleagues! In view of the fact that there is already a second treatment, much has been said in relation to this law. Let me just summarize briefly, the law – this is how all the studies and general opinion in the region show – is good, useful and if extended, it will actually make a lot of contribution to the development of the region as a whole. I would like to say the following, namely that it is certainly a fact that the region needs not only social transfers and social support, but it is not more effective if it receives incentives and, therefore, there is economic growth and overall improvement in the situation, because given the available data on unemployment moving somewhere between 19% and 21%, it is clear that there are also very high social tensions in this region. As the region receives incentives, it certainly improves its business environment, which becomes attractive both to domestic and foreign investors, and we can also expect new jobs and opportunities for young people who can stay in the region. With regard to the amendments tabled, I can say that I, too, have been pleased on the Committee in some way that others have also noticed that everything must be done in this direction so that the funds are most usefully spent. This has also resulted in confirmation of the proposed SDS amendment to Article 1 which prevents the use of resources for studies, expertise and the preparation of cost bases. So the second amendment, which has now been tabled, I believe that once the amendment is approved in Article 1, everything has been done to ensure that the funds are actually spent only on quality and productive projects. However, as regards the other amendments, namely the amendment relating to corruption risks, I would like to mention that the regional development agency is obliged to respect all these provisions or employees in this agency in accordance with Article 3 of the Law on Integrity and the Prevention of Corruption, so that I also do not see the need or specific added value for this amendment to be incorporated into the law itself. As regards the amendment to Article 4, which refers to the exclusion of those applicants who are suspects in proceedings, but there is no legal conviction in their case. Here I would like to point out that in such a way it could cause a lot of irreparable harm to a lot of people, because it is not said that they are in the prescribing or criminal proceedings, that they are also accused and can later prove that they are not actually innocent. This can happen in a number of ways, including that if someone has some kind of competition that is malicious and wants to harm, then such applications can occur and process these processes of predictive and criminal proceedings. It is still important that, under the terms of the tenders, evidence of non-punitiveness will have to be provided, which will clearly demonstrate that the person is innocent and that he meets all the conditions for running for such support. I hope that now the Government and the National Assembly will do their utmost to ensure that the funds already provided by the basic law are drawn up in the 2016 and 2017 budgets. A total of EUR 9.6 million remained to be used. According to data in 2016 5,34 and 2017 4,25. However, we must not forget the other measures and instruments, as direct financial incentives and support mainly relate to the promotion of the investments started. However, I would like to point out that we should also not neglect other instruments, such as the promotion of the development of human resources, where there has been a major setback in the past. The implementation of the regional promotion instrument is also of paramount importance. This is the only way to count on new domestic and foreign investors. I only firmly hope that this law will be adopted as soon as possible and that the Ministry will prepare in due course all the calls necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The word has been given by Mrs. Pretty Šimenko Susan.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u78	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished representative of the Ministry, welcome! The Pomur Act was adopted in 2009 with the aim of introducing additional measures to promote the development of the Pomur region and, of course, to remedy the economic crisis in the region at that time. The basic objective of the law was and, of course, also remains to reduce unemployment and create new jobs. The central problems, this is large unemployment in the region, unfortunately, we have not reduced everything from enforcement to today, because it is still somewhere at the level that it was at the end of 2009, that is, when this law was adopted. It's still about 19%. But it is true that if there were no such law, we could probably talk about a higher rate of unemployment here. Of course, Pomurje is not the only threatened region in Slovenia, as you probably know, we are also taking a similar stand for the Haloz area, where I come from, by not being able to talk about great unemployment there. Why? Because there is simply a population population such that we actually have a shortage of inhabitants, especially in the Haloz area. So I'm going back to the law of pomor. We supported the Law in 2009 in the Slovenian Democratic Party. At that time, however, we drew attention to a number of concerns that later proved justified. We really want this to continue now that we are actually extending the validity of this law for two years, it would not happen again. It is therefore right to draw attention to these anomalies, because of the fact that it refers to all the amendments below, to the few anomalies that have occurred here since the adoption of the law. The first such extremely large is the establishment of a government project office, which was a kind of unique in this area. It hired the then Secretary of State from the Cabinet of President Horvat, who later resigned because of conflicts of interest, suspicion of corruption and numerous irregularities in the implementation of this law as Secretary of State. Of course, this government office is gone, but then somehow this work was taken over by the Regional Development Agency Mura, which is not anymore today. Not long ago, this agency went bankrupt. Why did this happen? Because she got into financial trouble. It's just that the media report says there's 800 thousand losses. But there were 30 employees in this agency. And let's remember, this is an agency that is actually funded by the state and one share by the local community. In fact, at this point, I wonder how it is even possible for an agency to come into bankruptcy, one that is actually financed by the State, and what was actually happening here in the background. Of course, I would like to know whether responsibility will be required for the former leadership of the agency, how this money was actually spent and why and why bankruptcy actually occurred. So I'd like to ask for a little more explanation here. If we just look at the establishment of a regional economic centre. EUR 21 million was paid for only three projects that generated only 162 jobs and five new companies. However, we know that one of these companies has already gone bankrupt at the beginning of this year. And it would be good to go to money for the development of the Pomur region to reduce the number of unemployed. We also know that there were 40 000 euros for a study, for some intermediate evaluation, of a programme to promote the competitiveness of the Pomeranian region. At this point, I must point out that I am really pleased that you have adopted an amendment to the SDS Group's Home Committee, the Committee on the Economy, which actually makes it impossible for us to allocate and use money for various studies, expertise, professional bases, documentation and, of course, advisory contracts in the future. However, there have been huge irregularities surrounding this pomur law, so we have, of course, re tabled some amendments that have not been adopted. And it's only right that I expose these individual amendments. They all refer to Article 2. I'm just gonna go to the first one. In the third paragraph of Article 4 relating to the competitiveness promotion programme itself, we propose to delete support for the preparation and implementation of development projects in the region and to redistribute these resources to other programmes, which in fact show some efficiency, which I do not know is to encourage investment, human resources development, the promotion of the region, foreign investment and so on. We somehow estimate that this programme is completely unnecessary already because we have adopted one amendment which actually prevents funds from being spent on various documents, advisory contracts, expertise and so on. We therefore propose deleting this paragraph. In view of this programme, however we do not create any new jobs and it is, as such, irrelevant because it does not follow the basic objective of this law. We propose that in Article 4, new paragraphs be added, which I will read here, because it is right that the public hears about them, namely 'the organisation or institution performing the tasks under this Act must act transparently, responsibly and with the highest degree of integrity. An organisation or institution carrying out tasks under this Act shall be considered a contracting entity under the Public Procurement Act. The organisation or institution carrying out tasks under this Act shall, within 30 days of the adoption of this Act, draw up an integrity plan based on the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. The management of an organisation or institution carrying out tasks under this Act shall be considered as a debtor of the declaration of property under the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption." Why does that seem necessary to me? Because there have been too many irregularities in the implementation of this law so far. I really want to do everything possible in the National Assembly to reduce the possibility of continuing corruption in the framework of the implementation of this law. And then the next amendment refers to Article 4, which also adds a new first paragraph to it, "to calls for programmes and projects signed by an organisation or an institution carrying out tasks under this Act shall not be allowed to register natural and legal persons who are led or employed by persons who are in pre-trial or criminal proceedings". The main purpose of this provision is to apply to calls for programmes and projects for legal and natural persons who will in fact have as little corruption risk as possible. I really think that you are the money that is meant for the region that absolutely needs to be spent on the basic objective of this law, i.e. for new jobs and in fact to help the threatened area and for the development of the region, but not for some personal benefit of individuals. I am counting on your support in meeting the amendments because I believe that you too want this law to be implemented in a transparent manner and that money actually goes into the right hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Bachič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u80	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I believe that we all already understand why the Law on the Development of the Pomeranian Region has been introduced. The implementation of the law has proved effective, but not to the extent that it would not be necessary to extend the law for another two years. Basic productivity indicators are improving, but there is still a large gap in Slovenia's average. Thus, the Pomur region is still lagging behind in its income of 26.7%. At the time of the adoption of the Pomur law in 2009, the gross domestic product per inhabitant of the regions amounted to EUR 10 000 223, which was then 33% less than the Slovenian average. The GDP per capita of the Pomurska region since 2012 amounted to EUR 11 000 872, which is 30% less than the Slovenian average. According to this indicator, on the economic development scale of the regions of Pomurska region progressed from the last to the last. We note that the consequences of the economic crisis due to the economic weakness of the Pomeranian region are already very much present. We therefore believe that the extension of the law with certain amendments would allow the programme to be completed as it was set up. I can say that there are slight improvements in general economic growth, but we are not satisfied in the area of unemployment, where we are still leading the country, because we are exceeding the critical limit of 17%. If I say so, 9 000 639 registered unemployed persons were registered in the Pomur region in March 2015. Only 57.6% of the competitiveness promotion programme was implemented in the period 2010-2015. During the extended period, we will have to pay more attention to the development of tourism, the exploitation of geothermal energy and the development of social entrepreneurship. However, I would like to draw attention to the timely calls by the Ministry of the Economy, because our time is valuable and the implementation of the projects in two years will have to be carefully planned in order to make use of all the funds by December 2017. Your Honor! It is valuable and deserves a two-year extension of the law, so we will support it in the Group of Social Democrats. But we don't support the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Dr. Franz Runk, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u82	Thank you for your word. Although the debate was supposed to be on amendments, the predecessors went to a general discussion. I hope I'm allowed to do that in part. Of course, there is no dilemma, probably there is no parliamentary group or unrelated Members who would not support it. Now one of the things that bothers me here in this debate is that we always insist or go as far as possible to the rank of the so-called statistical regions. There are also major interregional differences, including in Pomurje, even in Styria, even elsewhere. Let's say we go at least to the level of the municipalities, there are some municipalities that function more effectively, less efficient, I don't know, then I'll say, through statistics sometimes even mask this data. You know, if you go to see Zasavje, Zasavje is better at statistics than Pomurje. But if you're going to watch only the Rippers, we're out there somewhere. Now the colleague moves with her head, of course, the coalition side always reads statistics in a slightly different way than the opposition. You could be pulling data out now, like, on long-term unemployment in the municipalities and so on. That is why I would, in fact, propose, when looking at these matters, to look at one rank lower, at the level of municipalities, at territorial aggregation. That's another thing. We must not forget that there are still three problems in the region that are at risk under the Better Regional Development Act. We also have the problem of Haloz, which was discussed by the Member or Member of Parliament yesterday, we could talk about White Krajina, we could talk about Koroška. I quote: "The government has long ago, because this law is stated, the congregations have again looked at and whose border congregations are regionally threatened." And there are a third of Slovenian municipalities, I will say not through the thumb, but in fact more than half of Slovenian municipalities are under development. And how are we going to deal with that? We can see from this story of the pomura law that there have been huge mistakes, huge stunts, even some corruption. We have a prominent member of the SD, a former secretary of state, mentioned by a colleague, we have a regional development agency in bankruptcy – we have a major problem with these regional development agencies as an intermediator. We also have what I'm always trying to say about the field offices, the problems with the implementation of these laws itself, when I think about it, for example, you had social entrepreneurship here, which was limping, because somehow they didn't understand, and one programme just came out. Of course, it would be wonderful if all the jobs produced by such intervention laws were maintained. I'm afraid they don't survive somehow. And it also seems to me that there's a little too much trifling then in the planning. For example, last week we had a Hungarian parliamentary delegation here and we talked to them about national minorities, although I do not like these words, I prefer to say national communities on the one hand and on the other, and it is also that the national community can be effective and well-functioning if it is also economically strong. The ideal typical example of this in Europe is South Tyrol. At the time my ambassador laughed a little, of course it's a fairy tale, my colleague here listens, Göncz. But let's just say, why am I bringing this up? Because I didn't see you pay attention to that. And they were also looking for certain funds, where a bilateral link could also work and improve the economic situation in Prekmurje. As far as the proposed amendments or those being imported are concerned, and the one to be proposed again, this first amendment on non-necessity or that there would be no advice and production of studies, which went through the committee, is not a topic here. You know, I'm a little skeptical about that. I know the background of this, but this way we're giving someone, as I say, a non-intellectual message. We definitely need studies for certain things. Not one of the studies "trla baba lan na metre" that we put on the shelf, but if we want to eventually, I don't know, do some kind of water spruce, what geological study we probably need. Sometimes when we go to this kind of amendment, let's think a little bit more about it. With regard to this amendment, which is now being tabled again, we will support it in the United Left. Of course, I would be happy if I wasn't needed, but unfortunately what Mr Laj said doesn't work in practice. I hope so, too, but I will talk more about this in the budget debate, that there will also be money for other endangered areas and regions, not only those three already promised by law, but they will be prolonged, and that it will also start to look a little more closely at some projects to be implemented. Projects can also be implemented in a way that does not necessarily involve municipalities that are all from the same region, but that they can touch or stick together, after all, some development projects could be carried out through some scattered municipalities in the area that have similar problems, similar interests and somehow try to solve them. Okay, I'm gonna stop at this point. Of course, we support this extension, of course because I come from Maribor, I hope that somewhere there will be "penets", "promised money" also for our problem development area and that we will somehow be aware of these growing differences, which ultimately people also suffer. You know, people said to me, "Shit, I'm paying the same taxes as the one from Bezigrad!" End of quote. Let us be aware of this, Slovenia is a country of all citizens and citizens and of those without citizenship and foreigners, and we have a declarative position on polycentric development, which will also need to be opened and reconsidered and, of course, to act and try not only to reduce these differences, but to set up such a system in the medium and long term, which will not always be generated. We will always have a region or a statistical or congregation that will be the last or the last or the last or the last. The problems are medium values, the issues are whether we reduce these differences or not. I have no problem living in the last region of 12 if the first region is only 7 or 13% higher than us. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u83	Thank you very much. In front of Mr Ranec, the Secretary of State, Mrs Margareta Guček Zakošek, asked for the floor. Here you go, ma'am.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u84	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Maybe it's time for the government to be defined too. The issue is primarily about amendments, but since a number of issues have been raised with regard to other topics, it is possible that I am still working on the situation in some way. We cannot agree that there has been no improvement, because this region we are talking about will have more than 19% unemployment. I said so myself, at this point it's 17.8% for September. So there has been an improvement, and the economic picture is better, and GDP per capita is getting better. It is true, however, that these trends in Slovenia are in some way increasing. About regional agencies. That's a very good question for the National Assembly. I would like to say to Members Lepi Šimenko that in no way are regional agencies financed by the State, nor are they largely. So, the current funds that regional agencies, in terms of their operations, get, in order to support our programmes, every regional agency gets, 100 000 euros a year, which is enough for one full time equivalent, so named FTE. As you yourself said, they employ 30 people, and regional agencies are legal form d. o. o. I would like to point out here that the Government has proposed to the National Assembly that regional agencies have the status of a public institution. I think it was 2011, and the National Assembly rejected this initiative. So I hope that if we come up with a solution where regional agencies will work more effectively and have this status and may even be more funded by the State, which it would take on its own, because in this case regional agencies will not worry about essentially maintaining themselves and their employees, but will be really committed to the regional development of the Republic of Slovenia. In this case, this national assembly will also have to confirm this decision in essence, which has not been the case so far. So I can assume from this debate that somehow Members' affection is in this direction that regional agencies actually become public institutions and that we no longer have forms in the country. In any event, more resources will have to be allocated from the budget for the operation of these agencies. In this case, too, this third amendment, I believe it will fall away because it will no longer be a problem. In any case, as a government, we have supported the first amendment with which, I believe, we are solving this issue, which you are all referring to, in the past, the use of funds has been inadvertent. We also believe that the money allocated to the region must go right there and for that purpose for which it is intended, so we have already supported this amendment on the committee. With this amendment, we believe we have saved both the second and the third, and these two amendments are not really necessary. The third amendment, which speaks in some way of transparency and non-corruption in the functioning of the bodies, is in fact already included in other legislation, as regional agencies are bound by the Public Procurement Act, and their leadership is also bound by the Corruption Act. However, we certainly cannot agree with the fourth amendment. I would also like to say that MGRT is neither owner nor, say, in RRA Mura until recently, had no representatives in the supervisory council. This happened only after SDH transferred its share to the pond fund. At that time, the representatives of the Supervisory Board, our own, were the ones who acted and ordered an external review of the operation. At that time, it became clear that the situation of this regional agency was rather poor. I can tell you that the procurator filed a criminal complaint against a longtime director, that's what you asked. I hope I answered those questions, if there's anything left, and please, if you can ask. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Danilo Anton Ranc has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u86	President, thank you for your word. As far as the amendments are concerned, I would like to state that we have already supported one SDS amendment in previous parliamentary procedures. We have shown some co-operation and captured some of your suggestions, and this has also solved this problem. But we won't support the others. However, I would briefly touch on the topics of this law, which I fully support, in particular to extend this deadline, so that all the funds earmarked for this Pomeranian region can be used. I think this has been the right approach for the ministry in the past. Of course, there may have been some minor anomalies, but I don't think it's a fear that the current minister with the team, who is an economicsman, would be overwhelmed by the experience that all these anomalies will eventually be eliminated and saved through his professional associates. Of course, I would like to point out that I want you to continue with similar practices because, as it has been heard, there are several regions in Slovenia that are less developed. I think this is the right sectoral approach of the Ministry. Of course, it should also be pointed out that without infrastructure projects and motorways to Pomurje, which was built, this law would have no effect either. We need to look at matters in a complementary way and contribute to Slovenia's balanced polycentric development through several sectoral measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. The law of Pomur was needed. We will discuss any form, as some of my predecessors have said today, after, we can say, the collapse of many large companies in Prekmurje as early as 2009, the Pomur Act then came into force in 2010, it was adopted in 2009. It was necessary, there was markedly high unemployment on the one hand, on the other hand, if we are looking at unemployment, it is structural unemployment in Prekmurje. So an education that people can't find jobs on the labour market. On the other hand, it has been the developmental backlog of Prekmurje for decades. I would also like to remind you of what it is, I think, and my colleague Trček also said before. In Slovenia there are also other areas that are urgently needed for development, which have slightly worse conditions for creating the economy, agriculture, as well as, say, the area where I come from, it is Slovenske Gorica, which is essentially the area of Slovenski Goric. In particular, in the area of the Lenart administrative unit, there was a lot of, we can say, injustice, on the one hand, the last congregation somehow, which is in the Pomur Act, is, say, the nearest Jurij ob Ščavnica, Gornja Radgona, Jurij ob Ščavnica, Apache. For example, Jurij ob Ščavnica is a municipality that borders the municipality of Cerkvenjak, where I live now, where it can be said that this fertile land, that in particular the end of this flat land, is more difficult there because it is a hilly area where it is also less likely to develop spindle zones and everything else. There the congregations, because of being more decent, can say that they have sought some activity or, above all, have moved away from this area, have not come under the Prekmur Law because their unemployment has not reached 17%. But there's another problem with this statistics. When we talk about unemployment in Prekmurje, when we talk about making a deadline forward, we say that we have come from 19% to 17,8%, and this is also data for September, when we know that there is still some part of the construction season of agricultural aid and everything else. Of course, we need to see that this unemployment is carried out at the annual average of the annual level; on the other hand, we need to take statistics and look at statistics as much as we have real more employees or active workers in Pomure in this case. Next thing. We must give the highest national award to the Austrian employers who have hired us several thousand Prekmurcs and people from the Slovenian Mountains. They know that they are decent, hardworking and hardworking people and are willing, of course, to work quite often for smaller wages, such as the comparable labour force in Austria, even though there is a rule that wages should not be lower than for Austrian citizens, but usually work at this very threshold. Even in the case of these people who have found work that has been working, which must sometimes give their head somehow lower, accept a lot of work, we, when they arrive in Slovenia, still double taxation. This is an example of how they work for me and how our policies are developed. An example of a development agency and a government office in Pomurje, where numerous abuses occurred. It should be borne in mind that the investigating and prosecution authorities have investigated seven people. It is important to be aware that I do not want to do anything wrong because there is a lot of people who are replacing a fellow Member from New Slovenia, Mr Horvat, with Andre Horvato from the Social Democrats, who is somehow suspected of these abuses with other actors who have somehow led this policy. We have to open our eyes to the outcasts now in this case, and so do I in this performance. Firstly, I would like to open their eyes to most of the money, what colleague Šimenko said and what you have also accepted the amendment, for some quasi documentation and everything else. For example, the household company Oikos – 1 million euros has been received. What does the agency have access to Prekmurci tell me? The fact that the money is Prekmurje and it goes back to Ljubljana. There is a consortium made, a small company made, where a small person gets for some promotion of Prekmurje some change, everything else, all the other money goes from Ljubljana quasi to Prekmurje and goes back to Ljubljana. This centre of Ljubljana is somehow the richest with the Premur law. Prekmurjes themselves have mostly sought work in Austria or even become, we can say, migrants in other countries, especially Germany, but some have moved out of the meadow. This is statistics in this case. Part two. One of you can tell me, the ones you are in the coalition, how many higher education programs we have in Pomurje, which are licensed by the state. Can someone name them for me? Prekmurje do not have any higher education programmes to be awarded. However, they have a private top-notch institution, Alma Mater Europae, which mostly teaches physiotherapists. This is the only institution where all these physiotherapists who have completed work on physiotherapy and gerontology have been given a job, especially in neighbouring Austria, that is where they go to practice and so on. Second case. First of all, you can say, colleagues from the coalition, look, and those who are chief guardians in your performances, you have a minister of the Jews, have Prekmurci their minister, who has done nothing. We still have small farms, which, I can say, are economically highly dependent on state subsidies, which are very small, where people are hard to survive, we have done nothing, most of the land still has the Agricultural Lands Fund, are being strengthened on the one hand by the turbo capitalist large farmers around Mr Jew's network and, on the other hand, small farmers, as in Slovenian Gorica, are dying on meals. Every day they have lower purchase prices for milk, and every day they have higher rents, for example, for the land of the Agricultural Land Fund, they have raised about 30% in the last 5 years and so on. This is all happening to Prekmurcu as well as to people in Slovenian Gorica and more in Slovenia. The sequel to the story. It's Prekmurje again. On the one hand, we have a higher education institution, a large university space, we praise it, and on the other hand, we Members are talking hopelessly about social entrepreneurship. See, yes, social entrepreneurship, all European countries have it, but as an addition, as an additional to vulnerable groups, as a supplement to people who cannot come because of motivation and everything else. If we have development laboratories, if we are spending millions of euros in money in these development laboratories, at Jože Štefan Institute, Chemical Institute, into all development laboratories in the framework of university education, people of God, we cannot speak in every other word of social entrepreneurship. For this reason, we want to give real value to products so that we can sell such a product instead of 50 euros for 2 000 euros. That's the essence of the entire education system. And Prekmurje does not have any serious concessional educational system from such areas. Where does Prekmurje have its distinct advantages? Geothermal energy. I was talking about physical therapy in connection with thermals and so on. What happened now? Most members of the coalition support the operation, i.e. this blitzkrieg, which took place in the Bank's Claims Management Company, namely, Sava, which is the most frequently spoken of, is the company Sava, which destroyed the complete thermal part or advantages of the entire Prekmur. Go see where the Radenci are today as some pearl of the former, where the Moravci are, we do have a hotel with five stars as the only thermal hotel in Slovenia, but at this point they are totally draining it because it is not in development because they do not pay quality personnel because they do not have money, say, for the promotion of Prekmurje. It destroys everything. On the other hand, the Austrian termite can be said to live daily and rise daily. And all of this is happening right now. Not to mention Lendava thermals, I'm not talking about Ptujski termins, which are part of this Sava group, before Terme 3000 and so on. These are all projects that I would have seen if I were the Prime Minister of the Government or if I were the Secretary of State. We could help the Prekmurks with that. We cry together, how poor it is — two years from now, nothing will be better because of the premurishing law. Maybe 50 jobs. On the other hand, I am opening your eyes to where to provide a thousand, 2,000 jobs, where to provide study programmes licensed in Prekmurje, where these young people could stay. As Prekmurje, if it continues this way, will not only have a problem of unemployment, but the same problem will come as we have in Slovenian Gorica, demographic threats. People are moving out. Most of the time, they will go to Ljubljana, the surrounding area, or abroad, which is Slovenia's biggest problem at the moment. It is those who have the greatest will to work best, who have the highest priorities in life, who are most needed for the development of society. All this hopelessness, this irresistance, dearly respected, those who have a majority in Parliament today, is what I have entered politics for. And that's the problem in this case. And the Prekmurites on the one hand do not see from their own, I can say the environment, no progress. They do not see because, despite the fact that many of their representatives in the government and the majority in Parliament, in this case, I am now explaining and looking for solutions from the opposition. And similarly, even greater injustice happens to Slovenian Gorica, where I come from, where we find ourselves. Fortunately, we have great cooperation with the mayors, we work with the Austrians, say, the Mura Development Agency – I have never seen in interstate cooperation with the Austrians, where we meet four times a year on state projects and so on. They're locked up in some place by some state bureaucrats, quasi agencies from Ljubljana, most of the time, they have a small seat in Prekmurje, because they had to have it after this pomura law and they kind of talk to Prekmurks, you have the resources, you have everything. They had nothing. Most people did not reach these funds, except those who had already had money before and received even more money. And this is the first five years of Premur law, respected colleagues and colleagues. I'm not saying this because Prekmurje wouldn't deserve it. Of course, he deserves even more, but he deserves Slovenian Gorica and Bela Krajina, and someone has explained about Koroška and so on. We have a highly centralised Ljubljana with 350, 330 million budgets like Ljubljana, we have all the institutions in Ljubljana, we have all the embassies, most state-owned companies except mail, all together in Ljubljana. On the one hand, we are a highly centralised, highly centralised country. As this law continues, we need the immediate establishment of regions of Slovenia. First of all, as many as possible and immediately as possible in the following year, due to the correct use of European funds, because each region will recognise what are the classic SWAT analyses: priorities, shortcomings, opportunities and dangers. This is this classic of the economy that we don't need to discuss. And in Prekmurje today, we need to say, we're going to extend your marriage, but Prekmurci and everyone else aren't looking for things we don't have. We're looking for things and we're going optimistically forward, the things we have. For Prekmurje, we can have high quality agriculture, we have mostly flat land, vegetables, cattle, and, on the other hand, strong opportunities for developing logistics, we have contact with important motorways and also railway links that are modernising and so on. We also have geothermal energy along with thermals, which is important, we also have a hospital in Prekmurje, Rakičan and so on. Around this, Prekmurje must take up a position and must continue its development in this position. Through this we will then reduce unemployment, stop young people from leaving this area. These are the solutions for Prekmurje and must be followed by the last two years of operation of this law by 2017. And that's how I see some solution for Prekmurce. Prekmurje also needs to open their eyes because at the end of 2018 they will all be able to wash their hands like sawing, you will say, you were at least five years plus two years old, the Pomura Act, you had the opportunity, you are to blame that you did not take advantage of these options. This is precisely why I draw attention to the mistakes of the first five years and I want these mistakes not to be repeated. For this reason, I also thank you for the fact that those of you who are also part of the coalition have been aware of these bureaucratic problems and that these places of this money for bureaucracy and as little money as possible for going to real projects, I thank you for also supporting the amendment prepared by the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Thank you very much. Then I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided tomorrow, Wednesday, 21st, according to the meeting's timetable. 10th, in the framework of the votes. I'm putting an end to the 14th item of the agenda. We're moving to five. POINT OF THE DAY’S ORDINATION OF THE PROPOSAL FOR A AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENTATION OF THE SURVEILLANCE AND FINANCING OF INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC BUSINESS LAW, CLOSED PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government. To complement this, I give the floor to Mr Dusan Maramor. Will you, Mr. Secretary? Mr. Dragonja Method, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Insurance and Financing of International Economic Affairs was forwarded to the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. Allow me to present briefly the purpose and content of the bill below. The SID Bank is authorised to carry out all transactions under the Law on the Insurance and Financing of International Economic Transactions, which was adopted in 2004 and amended in 2008. This law regulates the system of insurance and financing for international economic transactions in the Republic of Slovenia as a key instrument for supporting exporters to ensure the competitiveness of our companies in foreign markets and to offset the risks they face in competing in foreign markets. The Court of Auditors drew attention to certain irregularities in the conduct of foreign account transactions, since the Ministry of Finance had not recorded all business events relating to the implementation of insurance transactions carried out for the Republic of Slovenia by SID Bank. The amendment of the law, which is in line with the Court of Auditors, is now proposed to implement the legal regime of the existing situation by establishing by amending the law that the SID bank continues to operate on behalf of and for the account of the Republic of Slovenia and continues to manage the security reserves and that the security reserve account remains open to the business bank. An exception is proposed from the Public Finance Act that the budget and business books of the Republic of Slovenia continue to show not all transactions arising from transactions concluded, but only those that have been concluded so far. An exemption from the gross balancing principle has been established and risk volatility associated with the planning of payments due to adverse events is significantly lower. In case of possible different solutions, we would change the existing system, which works successfully and causes problems for the Slovenian economy, as changing the system could reduce the Bank's SID's ability to support export operations. Two amendments are also proposed regarding the sub-legislative rules relating to SID Banka, namely the adoption of a regulation governing the determination of the necessary level of security reserves, and the repeal of the Regulation on the manner in which credit transactions are carried out for financing international trade and investment from 2006, since that Regulation is no longer required for the purpose of regulating a different mode of reporting of the SID of the Bank to the Ministry of Finance after the adoption of the amendment of the law. The Ministry of Finance, in view of the non-competitive nature of the so-called PIO interest rate programme, proposes to abolish this programme, which is also foreseen by the amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the proposed text of the Act amending and supplementing the Law on the Insurance and Financing of International Economic Affairs and to further support the Slovenian export sector of the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u91	Thank you. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of Mrs Urški Ban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u92	Thank you so much for saying that. At its 13th meeting, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Insurance and Financing of International Economic Affairs, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption following a reduced procedure. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Legal and Legislative Service participated in the meeting of the Committee. In addition to the proposal for a law, the Committee also received the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance. In the course of the course of business, the amendments to the draft law were tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups, namely Articles 1 and 4. In the introductory explanation, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance explained the main solutions where the proposed implementation of the legal regime of the current situation and the exceptions to the Public Finance Act are established, so that the SID Bank continues to operate on behalf of and for the account of the Republic of Slovenia and the security reserve. The security reserve account remains open to the business bank and the budget and business books of the Republic of Slovenia continue to show not all transactions arising from closed transactions, but only those that are so far in the budget only to increase or reduce the security reserves and payment of the SID commission to the bank. With regard to the bill itself, they also referred to the Court of Auditors, which had no comments. This also answered the question of a member of the Committee as to how the Government took into account the Court of Auditors’ conclusion on the final accounts of the preceding period. The Committee has considered and adopted amendments to articles 1 and 4 of the draft law by the Coalition's parliamentary groups. The Committee further voted on all articles of the bill and adopted them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Dusan Verbič will present the position of the Mir Cerar Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u94	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament, a very nice greeting! The Court of Auditors, in its response report to the Audit Report of the Republic of Slovenia on the proposal for the final accounts of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2012 and 2103 in the work relating to the Ministry of Finance, drew attention to the unsatisfactory correction of irregularities in the execution of foreign account transactions, i.e. secured transactions for foreign account carried out by SID Bank for the Republic of Slovenia, since the Ministry of Finance did not record all business events carried out by SID Bank on behalf of and on behalf of the State. The Ministry of Finance shall implement a corrective action by the Court of Auditors by means of a proposal for a law. In view of the comments and recommendations made by the Court of Auditors, it is necessary to further regulate the increase in security reserves in the event that the need arises for this increase due to new insurance transactions on behalf of and for the account of the Republic of Slovenia, and to adopt a sub-legislative regulation regulating the way in which the necessary level of the security reserves is to be determined, the way in which the necessary amount of those reserves is to be planned and the way in which the funds of the security reserves are used when the SID is allocated to the bank to increase those reserves on the basis of the expected transactions that are not later realized. As interest in the interest compensation scheme has fallen, the Ministry of Finance proposes that, in view of the lack of budgetary resources and the continuation of the circumstances described above, the interest in the interest on interest settlement activities should be abolished. The funds shall be transferred to the budget and paid for the increase in the security reserves as the level of the security reserves no longer reaches the statutory threshold. The proposed law has no additional negative financial implications for the state budget and other public financial resources. The adoption of the law will have positive effects on the state budget in the coming years, as the costs paid by the State to SID to the Bank as a commission for the implementation of so-called interest settlement programmes will be reduced. It should be noted, however, that the overall value of the Bank’s SID financial services remains high in 2014, up to EUR 3.7 billion. The SID Bank will also contribute in the future, in accordance with its mandate and mission, to promoting economic activity, thereby opening up new jobs and maintaining existing jobs and financing the development of enterprises as one of the main challenges currently facing Slovenian society. As a result, it is also necessary to increase the SID reserves of the bank. For that reason, the SMC Group will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Insurance and Financing of International Economic Affairs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Šircelj will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u96	Dear Vice President, distinguished representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party we will support a solution that gives everyone interested, here I think mainly to the Ministry of Finance and SID of the Bank, a basis for them to follow the recommendations and perceptions of the Court of Auditors. As has been pointed out several times in the National Assembly, in the SDS we support those coalition solutions that give greater legal coherence that are effective for the country that is needed for the country and, of course, those that actually contribute to the transparency of institutions, state institutions or SID banks, which are also in state ownership, more transparent and that actual business is safer, more legal and of course more transparent. For this reason, we will support this proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party and, of course, we hope that the coalition or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will continue to propose solutions detected by the Court of Auditors in the audit report of the Republic of Slovenia, which in fact deviate from the legal bases or legal positions of the Court of Auditors. That is why we expect more of these solutions in the future. But we will support this solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacič will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u98	Dear Vice-President, distinguished representatives of the Government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! We need a new law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Insurance and Financing of International Economic Affairs in the first place because of the corrective measure imposed by the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia. The legal basis lies in the proposal for a final account for 2012 and 2013 and the irregularities found relate to the conduct of foreign account transactions. In the Desus Group, in the process of adopting the novelty, we make the most of our efforts to preserve the initial purpose of the operation of the SID of the Bank, its more active role in export financing in particular with regard to the promotion of exports where the country has potential difficulties due to the nature of risks and financial capacity. This will enable the SID Bank to continue to work on behalf of and on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia, including the management of security reserves. The increase or reduction of the security reserves and the payment of the SID commission to the Bank will be the only transactions that will appear in the budget and the business books of the Republic of Slovenia. The novelty also brings news that the interest compensation programme is limited in time. Implementation of this programme will only be possible by the end of this year. The proposed termination of the programme in the Desus Group seems to us to be a very logical move, as the fact is that so far the programme has been very little implemented, almost nothing, and for this reason it is necessary to stop the additional funding of something that is not being paid in practice. Remember, the purpose of the interest compensation programme was to increase the competitiveness of Slovenian exports by providing export finance under conditions that are more favourable for exporters of Slovenian goods and services than other market services. The programme is implemented through business banks that finance the export of Slovenian goods and services. In doing so, the interest rate for the final borrower shall be fixed for the entire duration of the loan. Credit can be obtained for maintenance up to a maximum of 10 years. In short, the interest compensation scheme means the supply of export credits at a fixed rate. After consideration on the working body, the text has been formulated, which is suitable for us in the Desus Group, so we will support the amendment. We support the Government's efforts as a proponent, which allows for the possibility that, if there is a need for new transactions on the market, the interest compensation scheme will still retain the legal basis for its reactivation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u100	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting to all on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats! In the parliamentary group, we will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Insurance and Financing of International Economic Affairs. Because we are aware that at this point the country must not take any decisions or laws that would in any way interfere with our export-oriented economy. In fact, 70 % of gross domestic product is actually produced by exports and, of course, this law follows this logic, so that the country can continue to help export companies successfully in obtaining new businesses. In addition, the Slovenian Export and Development Bank, the so-called SID Bank, has all the powers to support international economic transactions. We can also see that the SID Bank has been doing its job well so far. If we look at the data from 2013, we can see that the Slovenian Export and Development Bank has committed almost EUR 4 billion to the Slovenian export economy in 2013. In particular, it is about supporting businesses that would not be controlled by the company itself without a strong and active role in the open market. It is a matter of helping to protect, in particular, those transactions that are potentially excessively risky and are therefore not ready to be taken over by the owners, which means that export volumes can also be reduced. In particular, it is a mechanism to make as much security as possible possible risk investments and, finally, we are somehow comparable to other countries, as all other countries are also trying to respond to the needs of their export-oriented economy. All of this means that we are creating new jobs in the home environment, and, as I mentioned in the introduction, we are continuing to maintain such a high gross domestic product with export-oriented companies. Given that the Court of Auditors, in its response report to the proposal for a final account of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, found that the Ministry of Finance had not recorded all the business events managed by the SID bank for the country, because it did not have the appropriate legal basis, it was the law that corrected that deficiency. Finally, it also requires the adoption of a new sub-legislative regulation which will regulate certain necessary levels of security reserves and how they are used when SIDs are allocated to business entities. The proposed amendments make it possible for the Bank's SID to continue to play its positive role and, above all, to ensure that its operation is transparent, legitimate and therefore we will support this amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Ms Violeta Tomić will present the position of the United Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u102	Dear Vice President. Thank you for your word. Fellow Members and fellow Members! In the United Left, we support the core of this law, namely what is of a technical nature and relates to the remedying of deficiencies in the recording of these transactions, as requested by the Court of Auditors. Our reservations, however, relate to the termination of the interest rate adjustment programme in crediting export transactions. Our reservations are both principled and purely practical. At the principle level, we cannot support laws that abolish a solution that has not been implemented in practice without proposing a substitute solution. We do not claim that the interest rate adjustment programme should be maintained in the form laid down by this law, but we say that the credit risk problem is a real problem and that an export-oriented country such as ours must protect its exporters from this risk. In general, our companies exporting services and goods are successful. We have traditionally high surpluses in the service account due to carriers and tourism. We've also had surpluses in the last few years in the commodity account. Despite the deficit in the capital account and transfers, we had 2.6 billion surpluses or 7% last year. So we create a lot more than we use. In fact, this 7% is one of the limits where the surplus becomes unproductive because we are giving up investment in our own development through a loaned foreign. Another issue is essential to address this law. In fact, the very uncertain situation in our traditional export markets, especially in the Russian Federation, Ukraine and indirectly in the former Yugoslavia. After all, because of the Volkswagen affair, problems are also expected in the automotive cluster. The export value to the Russian Federation decreased by at least 30 % despite the quantitative increase. It is known that in the Russian Federation, our companies are carrying out large investment projects that last for many years. The interest rate adjustment measure was intended for such projects. It is true that only one such business was realized. However, this does not mean that such a measure can simply be repealed. Moreover, it should be analysed why it was no longer used and improved. In fact, we would not have any additional costs by keeping it in the arsenal. They thought similarly at the Ministry of Finance, but nevertheless they proposed a counter-relationship. We read in the explanation of the law: "In the Office of the Ministry of Finance, there have been several debates over the past years as to whether the PIO programme, in view of the above, has made sense to abolish it, but the view has prevailed that it makes sense to maintain it in view of the possible emergence of the needs of the economy for those services. The Ministry of Finance proposes that the programme should be abolished in view of the lack of budgetary resources and the continuation of the circumstances described above in view of the interest in PIO operations and that the funds be transferred to the budget and paid for the increase in the security reserves." End of quote. In short, we cannot assume responsibility for abolishing this programme for reasons which they obviously did not believe in at the Ministry. We also cannot agree that the Ministry of Finance has failed to adapt the programme in all these years by making it more practical. That is why we will abstain in this case. Thanks for the words.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr Jernej Vrtovec will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u104	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! The Law on the Insurance and Financing of International Economic Affairs governs the system of insurance and financing of international economic transactions, which ensures the competitiveness of Slovenian companies in foreign markets. Under the Slovenian Export Development Bank Act, SID has acquired legal competence to carry out these transactions. It is a matter of financing those transactions where the State has a specific role to play in promoting exports due to the nature of the business or the risks, since the risks to these transactions are not prepared or capable of taking over the reinsurance sector. This role is therefore taken by the State or SID of the Bank, which is extremely important to our economy in order to promote export transactions. The proposal for amendments and the addition of the Law on the Insurance and Financing of International Economic Affairs constitutes, in fact, corrective measures to the Court of Auditors' report, which drew attention to the inadequate regulation of the field of security reserves. Thus, the possibility of an increase in security reserves is now being regulated due to the envisaged new insurance transactions. The increase in reserves shall be provided from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia or from other regular or extraordinary sources. The security reserve shall be determined on the basis of collateral for expected transactions, which are often also realised. However, if all transactions are carried out, there is a risk that a security reserve will fall below the legal limit. The current rules on the calculation of the security reserves shall be abolished and the criteria for these purposes re-defined, for the planning of the necessary level of the security reserve and for the manner in which those assets are used. The proposed changes should therefore be welcomed in this part, as the existing system of financing export transactions significantly contributes to economic growth in the Republic of Slovenia. In this regard, we are critical in New Slovenia to the solutions that allow not all transactions to be reflected in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and business books, as set out in the Law on Public Finances, as such solutions are non-systematic and are imprudent in public finances. Although we welcome the proposed increase in the security reserves in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia in Novi Slovenija, because of the solutions that allow exceptions to the presentation of transactions in accordance with the Public Finance Act, we regret that we cannot support the proposal for amendments and additions to the Law on the Insurance and Financing of International Economic Affairs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u105	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The amendments to the amended bill were not tabled, so I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made tomorrow, 21. Ten. 2015, in the context of the votes I'm breaking up with this point 5 of the agenda. We're moving on to 15. Agenda item — Second defence of the proposal for a law supplementing the law on the growth of the Republic of Slovenia for the financing of investments of economic companies, within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to Mr Method Dragonji, State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! The Law on the Guarantees of the Republic of Slovenia for the Financing of Investments of Companies entered into force on 1 June 2010. The aim of the law was to enable companies established in the Republic of Slovenia to obtain loans to finance investment. In view of the first-class insurance provided by the State guarantee, it was expected that banks would be more inclined to lend and that this so-called anti-crisis measure released a credit crunch resulting from the financial crisis. On the basis of the requirements of the economy, a new law was adopted in 2011 extending the possibility of granting guarantees to revolving assets. In view of the high risk of these guarantees, the amended law provided, inter alia, for more stringent criteria for the approval and insurance of these guarantees, in particular by establishing the credit ratings of companies which could benefit from these guarantees. The 2012 amendment of the Law further sought to strengthen the provision of guarantees for reverse assets. The share of investment guarantees increased from the original 75 % to 80 %. Despite these efforts in terms of adapting economic measures, the instrument has not in practice recovered. From the original tender in 2010 to the end of 2014, the SID Bank, which implemented this programme, issued a guarantee to nine companies totalling EUR 20,5 million from the total tendering quota of EUR 400 million. The state of all loans supported by the Republic of Slovenia guarantee was EUR 13.8 million at the end of 2014. Of this is the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia EUR 10.2 million. This shows that the demand for guarantees under this Act is low and is reduced every year and therefore the need for this instrument is no longer due to substantially changed circumstances compared to 2010. It was, in fact, an anti-crisis measure which is no longer necessary for that purpose. The Law on the Guarantees of the Republic of Slovenia for the Financing of Company Investments does not contain a provision which would limit the duration of the implementation of guarantees under this Act and therefore proposes to restrict the issue of guarantees until 31 December of this year. At the same time, it should be pointed out that the law does not expire on that date, but that new guarantees are no longer being issued. For the law cannot and cannot be excluded from the legal order, since the guarantees issued on its basis have not yet expired. The law and its regulations also regulate obligations and relationships following the issue of the guarantee itself, such as reporting and procedures for cashing and recovery, so it is essential that the law remains in the legal order. For these reasons, the same provision also contains the Law on Guarantee Schemes of the Republic of Slovenia and the Law on Guarantee Schemes for Natural Persons. Although guarantees under these two laws have not been issued for almost five years, they are still applicable due to provisions relating to post-guarantee procedures. For these and justified reasons, we propose that the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Guarantees of the Republic of Slovenia for the financing of investments by companies be adopted in the proposed form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Tiln Bozic, Vice-President. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u108	Mr President, thank you again for the floor. Dear colleagues! At its 13th regular meeting on 6 October 2015, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the draft law supplementing the Law on the Guarantees of the Republic of Slovenia for the Financing of Investments of Companies, also known as ZPFIGD-C, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following a regular procedure. The Committee received an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service, as well as from the Commission for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance of the State Council, which supported the draft law. The proposed law has not been amended by qualified investors. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meetings in addition to the members of the committees. In its opening remarks, the representative of the applicant presented a more detailed presentation on the purpose of the law and the solutions proposed. The proposal proposes a limitation on the time for issuing guarantees by the end of 2015, as this instrument has not proved to be viable in practice. The tendered guarantee amount was EUR 400 million and only a small part of the quota was used, that is 20.4 million, about 5% of the total quota. It also explained that they do not want to repeal the law in its entirety, as some guarantees are still active. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service pointed out that the proposed solution to the annulment was not technically appropriate and that a different approach would be more appropriate. In the debate, the question of sub-capitalisation of enterprises and the sense of ceasing the provision of such guarantees was raised in practice. Further, the question was raised as to whether any other solution might be being prepared. In its reply, the representative of the Government said that this solution could not already be applied to over-indebted companies and that there were alternative measures in preparation. Following the presentation of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy to the National Assembly, he proposed that the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Guarantees of the Republic of Slovenia for the financing of investments by companies should be adopted in the text submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ms Susana Lepi Šimenko will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u110	Hello, everyone! In 2010, a law on the guarantees of the Republic of Slovenia to finance the investments of companies was adopted following an emergency procedure. The purpose of the law was to encourage the financing of investments in activities of particular importance to Slovenia, such as technological renewal, tourism development, regional development, investment in environmental protection and energy efficiency, and investment in R & D. It was estimated that companies would find it difficult to obtain new funding and that banks would give priority to those who had properly secured obligations. The State guarantee is also intended to provide such insurance. It was also estimated that the adoption of the Law on guarantees to finance companies' investments would release a credit crunch, but unfortunately that was not the case. In practice, the proposed instrument has not recovered despite interim corrections. Neither was the release of a credit crunch. From the law until the end of 2014, only nine guarantees totalling EUR 20 million were issued, while the total quota was EUR 400 million. The proposed amendment of the law limits the issuing of guarantees until the end of 2015, since, while further issuing guarantees and in the event that the borrowers themselves do not repay loans under the existing law, this could constitute an additional burden on the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. With the proposal to amend the Law on the Guarantees of the Republic of Slovenia for the Financing of Investments of Economic Companies, we agree with the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group and will therefore support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr Uroš Prikl will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! In the brief position of our Group of Members. The new law brings a similar solution, as we already know from the amendment of the Law on the Insurance and Financing of International Economic Affairs, so the issuance of guarantees is limited in time until the end of 2015 because the demand for the latter practice was almost null and void. Of the total quota of EUR 400 million, only slightly over 5% was spent, which amounts to nominally less than 21 million, so it is right to prevent further potential commitments from our country in providing financial resources with the proposed solution. The amendment of the 2011 law, when we expanded the possibility of guarantees being granted not only for investments but also for the financing of operating assets, did not produce the expected fruits. The government recognised the inaction of issuing guarantees, the purpose of financing companies' investments, and therefore decided that the instrument in force was no longer needed. Despite warnings from the Legal and Legal Service that such a solution would actually put the law out, the Government, with an appropriate explanation – we have of course the same position – allowed the existence of a legal basis in the treatment proceedings. While the current situation does not indicate the need to exploit such guarantees, this does not mean that, in the event of a changed economic situation or a changed environmental situation, the need would not arise again. The latter means that the issue of guarantees from the Republic of Slovenia can be released again in the future. In our Group of Members, the Desus Group, we advocate this view, that we do not have to insist on certain activities if they do not bring benefits or to such an extent for any of the parties involved, especially if we have not achieved the expected initial purpose of doing so, namely, to increase the competitiveness of companies. There are, of course, other mechanisms for this. The development of individual companies depends on continuous investment, which is increasingly linked to European Union funds or private investment by foreign investors. In accordance with all the above, the Members and Members of the Desus Group will fully support this amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u114	Thank you for your word and once again a nice greeting to everyone on behalf of the Ambassador of the Group of Social Democrats! We will also support this Act on the Supplementation of the Law on the Guarantees of the Republic of Slovenia for the Financing of Investments to Economic Companies in the Parliamentary Group. However, we would also like to draw attention to the facts which are also mentioned in the assessment of the state of adoption of this law. Indeed, the Law on the Guarantees of the Republic of Slovenia for the Financing of Investments of Economic Companies was adopted at the time of the global economic and financial crisis and, in order to remedy these consequences, a law was adopted to issue a guarantee for the implementation of investments to companies. During the economic and financial crisis, companies obviously did not think about investments, but more about maintaining existing production, and warnings soon came that it would be more appropriate to allocate the guarantees for the funds needed by companies for the assets they needed, so that they could implement the programmes they had in place at the time. This has also been the case with the amendment of the law, but at the same time this change has apparently introduced too harsh a condition for greater use of guarantees. In particular, if you wanted to obtain a guarantee for operating assets, a procedure had to be followed for the appointment of the so-called Institute of Commissioners of the Ministry of Finance to monitor the implementation of this guarantee. In short, this process has proved to be very inoperable, in practice difficult to implement, and therefore more than EUR 20 million has not been realized in the law that we are dealing with today, or with which we are responding to this small use of resources. Although this law abolishes this practice of providing guarantees that have obviously been too restrictive, I too much to ask for in practice to come to life, and it is therefore right to say that this scheme is to be completed by the end of 2015. At the same time, however, we note that we will still have to think about the fact that even with additional, more flexible measures, we try to issue guarantees for companies with programmes, and not least the banks that we have recapitalised almost 5 billion are literally sitting on money, and in order to create a more realistic view of the need to help the economy in particular with this money. Following the conclusion of this year 2015, however, we believe that it is necessary to proceed with the guarantee schemes and to bring these 5 billion to businesses and thus to economic growth, job creation and the creation of conditions in Slovenia prior to the economic and financial crisis. This must be our goal, because more than 100,000 unemployed people in Slovenia certainly expect this from all of us, especially from the banks that have this money. We have companies that certainly have knowledge and an explanation that these guarantees can only be obtained by companies that are not over-indebted is, of course, very flat-rate. Every company in particular needs to be treated very seriously, and finally the bad bank that we have in Slovenia in order to try to reorganise over-indebted companies is, of course, a mechanism that is in place. Many companies are certainly in such a state that the guarantee can benefit more effectively, but under more appropriate conditions than have been recorded in the law in force so far. Therefore, with the hope that we will get a law that will have more flexible conditions for the economy in the future, we support the conclusion of this law and, of course, we expect a more active role to play in the future, both the Government, the National Assembly and the banks in solving unemployment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Ms Violeta Tomić will present the position of the Joint Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u116	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the Ministry! In the United Left, we will not support the proposal. In addition to the political and economic reasons, there are also reasons of a formal legal nature. In our view, the legislative and legal service has rightly warned that this amendment actually repeals the law. However, the government proposes that new guarantees will no longer be available, but the law will remain in force because some guarantees are still in force, but in this way it would not be possible to repeal any law whose legal effects are still in force, which is, of course, absurd. We therefore agree with the legislative and legal service that the amendment should define the conditions for the termination of the law and thus withdraw the law from the legal order. Otherwise, the legal order fills us with some of the loopholes of law, and then you are not surprised that on some scales of economic freedom we get a minus point. Of course, the content of this law is essential to us, and here our principled position is simple. Investment guarantees relate to a problem that is still real and fragile, such as credit crunches and weak investment activity. UMAR notes in its latest forecast that investments are still a weak point of economic recovery. We must not forget that too much surplus in the current balance of payments account is also defined as a macroeconomic imbalance under the criteria of the European Semester. The stagnation of imports is not only a sign of consumption retention, which is in itself a problem, but also the retention of investments. Since 2008, our companies have been underinvesting. For seven years, however, the speed of technological progress has been high. In the future, this will show up in lower economic growth than potential, in lower added value and in lower employment. It is probably not necessary to point out that credits to businesses today are at 2005 level because they have been falling since mid-2010 and that surveys show that at least one third of our companies are producing less than they could because they do not have access to funding. A while ago, there were excuses for a capital deficit in banks and overindebted companies. Now our banks have too much capital, and we are under the European average after corporate indebtedness. The deleveraging process is therefore largely completed, and the investment process must now begin. In this process, investment guarantees are also needed in addition to state investments and investments by state-owned enterprises. That is why we do not agree to abolish this scheme without the proposed compensation being proposed at the same time. Madam Secretary of State said the following, quote: "We appreciate that this concrete measure cannot or cannot be completed in a way that could in practice be brought to life, so we estimate that it is more appropriate, in essence, to abolish the measure as such, while we focus on other areas or other instruments through which we can help economic societies," the end of the quote. As we say, we do not claim that this instrument must be maintained, but the fact is that other instruments also do not produce any results. That is why we would rather keep this instrument in the arsenal than completely end it. But for an illustration, I'd end up with an analogy. One year ago, the tax on the balance sheet amount was abolished. The situation was also formally similar to this, since the law still applies even though the tax is not charged as of 31 December last year. There was no need for the National Assembly to do anything because the temporaryity had already been installed with the 2012 novel. The tax did not work as stated in the textbooks, but we warned at that time that there was no point in abolishing it without replacement measures. After one year, we can say that unfortunately we were right. The budget has lost 19 million euros, which is as much as 5 million more than it will take to defrost the minimum income. Credits to companies continue to decline despite the fact that banks have too much capital and businesses are no longer over-indebted. This unfortunately only confirms the conclusion that the abolition of weak instruments without the introduction of new wrong economic policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr Jernej Vrtovec will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u118	Dear colleagues and colleagues! During the economic and financial crisis, after 2008, we faced a credit crunch that affected the economy in particular, as it could not access the necessary funds for investment and development. In response to the credit crunch, the Law on Guarantees of the Republic of Slovenia was adopted to finance the investments of companies that entered into force 1. 6th of 2010 Its aim was to enable companies to acquire investment credits and thus release credit crunches. The amendments to this Act, however, extended the possibility of obtaining guarantees from the Republic of Slovenia for the revolving assets of companies. However, the conditions for obtaining such a guarantee were very strict, in particular as regards insurance. Despite good intentions, the law did not come to life in practice, but loans from the Republic of Slovenia's guarantees were granted through the SID of the bank, with only 20 million euros from the estimated €400 million quota in good five years, which is barely 5% of the quota envisaged. The amendment of the Republic of Slovenia Guarantee Act for the financing of investments by companies is, in fact, in direct connection with the established Fiscal Rules Act and the limitation of public financial expenditure. The proposal for a law restricts the issuing of guarantees by the Republic of Slovenia to finance investments by companies and to finance operating assets at the end of the 31st period. 12. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Right now it's up to the end of the month or up to 30. Ten. In 2015, the fifth call for these funds is under way when it is possible to file an application for a loan with the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia. If the guarantees were to continue to be issued, this could have an impact on the emergence of potential liabilities for the state budget even in the coming years, which would jeopardise the implementation of our commitments under the Stability and Growth Pact and the financial framework under our adopted fiscal rule law. This is the explanation of the government. The proposed amendment does not pursue the objective of promoting investment in the economy. By limiting the time of obtaining loans with the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia, certain planned infrastructure projects such as the construction of the 3rd axis, the construction of the whole railway infrastructure, for example, will surely be compromised by the construction of the 2nd track and, of course, other major investments. The Bank of Slovenia Guarantee Act for the financing of investments by companies should therefore be amended in such a way as to ensure that State guarantees for investments are granted primarily in a way that would provide companies with the necessary financial resources for investment, while at the same time providing sufficient guarantees to enable any cashed state guarantees to be paid from the investment itself. The time limit on the validity of the law is also not an appropriate solution. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr State Secretary, Members of the New Slovenia Group of Members, We will not support the proposal to supplement the Republic of Slovenia Guarantee Act to finance companies' investments for these reasons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mag. Dušan Verbič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u120	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Secretary of State, Members of Parliament, a very nice greeting! The proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Guarantees of the Republic of Slovenia to finance investments by companies provides for a law on the issue of guarantees up to 31. 12. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It will only be possible to use guarantees by the end of this year. The Company Investment Financing Guarantee Act entered into force on 1 June 2010. Its aim was to enable these companies based in the Republic of Slovenia to obtain loans to finance investment. In view of the first-class insurance provided by the State guarantee, it was expected that banks would be more inclined to lend and thus release the so-called bank spasm that was created as a result of the global crisis. At that time, the law made it possible to provide credit insurance guarantees for financing investments in development projects that result in an increase in the added value of an employee and thus increase employment. In 2011, the law was amended and allowed the possibility to extend the possibility of granting these guarantees to revolving guarantees. Due to the high risk of such guarantees, the amended law provided for enhanced criteria for the approval and insurance of guarantees and the institution of the Ministry of Finance’s Commissioner. However, this institution has also been inoperable under the powers it would have had in relation to the business of the company itself, the beneficiaries of the guarantee are claimed to be. The procedure for appointing an authorising officer would take too long to implement a legal solution designed primarily as an anti-crisis measure, due to the mandatory exercise of the invitation to tender. It was therefore abolished by the amendment of the law in 2012 and, at the same time, increased insurance requirements for the assets. The aim of the last novelty was therefore to accelerate the possibility of granting revolving guarantees to the Republic of Slovenia, at the same time as a requirement for stricter insurance. The share of the investment guarantee increased from the original 75 % to 80 % of the loan. Despite these efforts in terms of adapting measures to the economy, the instrument has not in practice recovered. From the first tender in 2010 to the end of 2014, the SID Bank jointly issued a guarantee to nine companies totalling EUR 20.48 million from the total tendering quota of EUR 400 million. With the legal potential of €1 billion. The state of all loans supported by the Republic of Slovenia guarantee was EUR 13.8 million at the end of 2014. The demand for guarantees from the Republic of Slovenia has decreased every year, with banks granting only 9 loans despite the guarantee provided in the form of a guarantee from the Republic of Slovenia. However, no application for a guarantee was received in the last fifth invitation to tender. We can certainly say that the guarantee scheme has not yet been implemented. In the future, companies will have to obtain funding for their development without State guarantee. Of course, the State Development Bank will help in the future to win along with the Slovenian Enterprise Fund, but in the future it will also have to play a greater role in equity financing. For this reason, the SMC Group will support the proposal for a law supplementing the Republic of Slovenia Guarantee Act to finance companies' investments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u121	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled. I also conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the proposal will be made tomorrow in the framework of the votes. I'm putting an end to the 15th item of the agenda. I'm also adjourning the 12th session of the National Assembly. I inform you that the meeting of the College of the President of the National Assembly will begin at 3 p.m. in the Grand Hall of Tomšič. We will continue with the 12th meeting of the Assembly 15 minutes after the conclusion of the College.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u122	We continue with the adjourned 12th meeting of the choir. We're moving on to 16. Agenda item — Second defence of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons, within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Method Dragonji.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u123	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! The Government has prepared a proposal to supplement the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons. The main reason for the proposed additions is the transposition of European Union legislation into the Slovenian legal order. A new article is also needed to amend accounting rules. The area of corporate taxation at European Union level is not harmonised to a greater extent, but three directives are still in force concerning corporate income tax. One of these Directives is the Directive on the common system of taxation of subsidiaries and subsidiaries. That Directive was amended first in July 2014 and subsequently in January 2015. Since the implementation of the basic Directive, the business environment has changed and gaps in the application of the Directive have emerged and changes have been needed. Double non-taxation is one of the key areas in the European Union where rapid and coordinated action has begun. Due to double non-taxation, Member States lose a lot of income and unfair competition is also generated. However, we can certainly include these changes in the current global tax environment. The OECD and the European Union are actively addressing the problems of reducing the tax base and transferring profits. The first amendment to the draft law concerns non-compliance with hybrid loans. Hybrid loans are financial instruments with characteristics of debt and equity. As a result, there may be unwanted double taxation. The draft law therefore provides that payments for hybrid loans shall be taxed in the recipient country if there was expenditure in the payer's country. This ensures equivalent taxation. The draft law also includes a provision on the prevention of abuses in those areas covered by the Directive. Only legal transactions will be taken into account in the application of the proposed provisions, not for example the establishment of artificial intermediaries, in order to achieve tax benefits, especially for cross-border investments and businesses involving cross-border companies. The third addition to the draft law is due to the amendment of the international accounting rule regarding the effects of the measurement of pensions and pensions at the time of retirement. The determination of the tax base under the Law on corporate income tax is based on the determination of profits for business purposes under accounting rules. The provision on the bill is necessary because the new accounting rules provide for their management over capital and the statutory tax relates to items in the statement of profit. It is estimated that the overall impact of all these supplements, as proposed by the law, will leave around €1 billion a year higher revenue from the state budget for corporate tax revenue. This effect will be shown for the first time as a result of the way in which the tax is charged as a higher revenue of the State budget is expected in 2017. The Government therefore proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u124	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I give the floor to Vice-President Tiln Christmas to present the report to the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u125	Madam President, thank you for your floor. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We are on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy at its 13th regular session. Ten. 2015 as a parent labour body they considered the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons – ZDDPO-2M submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. We have also received material from the Legislative and Legal Service for the meeting, which has made a comment on the derogation from the omitted wording to Article 2 of the proposed text, the report of the competent committee of the State Council supporting the proposal and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD coalition groups to Article 2. In its opening remarks, the representative stressed that the transposition of European legislation into the Slovenian legal order was an addition reflecting recent changes in accounting rules. It presented a basic arrangement allowing for the exemption of tax evasion from the dividends paid by the subsidiary to the parent company, thereby eliminating the double taxation of income at the level of the parent company. In practice, it was found that individual solutions could also be used for abuses and therefore action had to be taken. It's three key changes. The first in practice eliminates discrepancies in hybrid loans which, due to the simultaneous characteristics of debt and equity, may be treated differently in individual cases, depending on the rules in the individual Member State. Uncoordinated treatment of the two countries may result in double non-taxation. This solution provides for the taxation of such transactions in the recipient country if they have been defined in the payer's country as a tax recognised expenditure. In this way, one-off taxation is provided. Another innovation introduces the prevention of abuse at a more principled level if a particular arrangement or solution is intended solely to obtain a tax advantage. The third solution takes into account the change in the accounting rules regarding the effects of the re-measurement of pensions and retirement pensions and determines how these effects are treated in a tax way or in a tax way. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service further explained that the amendment of the coalition groups to Article 2 has now been harmonised. There was a somewhat broader debate, which also touched on existing and expected inflows from corporate income tax to state treasury. The Committee considered and adopted the amendments of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups below. He then voted on all the articles of the proposal together and adopted them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u126	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Uroš Prikl has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u127	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your words. Nice greetings to all ten Members and Members of Parliament, representatives of the Government! The Desus Group supports the proposal or additions to the Law on corporate income tax. It is a matter of implementing the European Directive into the Slovenian legal order. It brings two major changes, namely the elimination of double taxation and the establishment of a uniform rule for Member States preventing tax abuse. In the Desus Group, we welcome all solutions that advocate or strive to create an enabling tax environment. It is not particularly necessary to point out how the favourable tax environment, and consequently the business environment, has a beneficial impact on the economy as a whole. We have already repeated many times that we are working in our parliamentary group to effectively collect public benefits, but at the same time ensuring a fair, in particular fair and equitable redistribution of the tax burden. This principle must apply not only within the country but also at the level of the European Union, i.e. a uniform rule for all members of the European Union. In our view, tax reform is a key factor that will affect the future economic development of Slovenia, so it is necessary to take a very careful approach to resolving the tax problem, and sometimes only to remove the unnecessary administrative obstacle. One of the inconsistencies that we will address by amending the Law on corporate tax is double non-taxation for financial instruments such as hybrid loans. The problem stems from different interpretations of hybrid loans between Member States. Some such loans are treated as debt capital and in some countries it has emerged as equity capital. This finally leads to confusion in the taxation of taxes because the two countries are at odds with each other. If we are talking about tax expenditure in the payer's country, then the current regulation is followed by the rule that dividends are treated as a deduction from the tax base, thus reducing the taxpayer's tax base, which is a benefit for him. At the same time, in the recipient country, dividends are not included in the tax base and are not taxed, which is of course necessary to change. The proposed solution provides for one-off taxation in such a way that dividends are included to an appropriate extent in the tax base and taxation in the recipient country if they have been treated in the payer's country as a tax-recognised expenditure. The latter will also reduce the negative effects of the loss of tax revenue due to tax planning, which allows for the current uncoordinated action by countries. Overall, the proposed budget for 2016 under corporate income taxes is forecast at more than €550 million, which would mean a decrease of €15.8 million and 2.7 per 2015. With regard to the adoption of today's measure, we estimate that the latter will have positive effects on the state budget, i.e. around €1 million more tax revenue from legal persons' income at annual level. Of course, this is not a key, major and most powerful measure, but of course a piece, a stone in the mosaic of more efficient tax collection, generally speaking, removing some administrative obstacles, at the same time means encouraging, more stimulating, more stimulating tax environment and leading to our repeated thesis to help and not hinder. Above all, in the light of the fair and equitable distribution of tax burdens for all. According to the MEPs and Members of the Desus Group, we support, unanimously support, the proposal for a amendment to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u129	Once again, thank you for your word and a nice greeting on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. We will also support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on corporate income tax in the parliamentary group. This is a law that has been in force since 2006. During this period, of course, it has also been amended and supplemented several times, as a rule due to harmonisation with European legislation, and often because of its response to fast-moving economic changes. The basic scheme allows for the exemption of tax on dividends paid by the subsidiary to the parent company in the form of a tax withdrawal, thereby eliminating the double taxation of income at the level of the parent company. Regrettably, however, individual solutions can lead to abuse or double taxation. And with the further integration of European markets, there are opportunities for these abuses. Companies, especially those operating in several countries with a diversified structure of subsidiaries and related companies, have so far had the opportunity to avoid paying taxes using hybrid financial instruments. With the abuse of cross-border investment provisions, tax inflows are so low and abusers are, in fact, unjustifiable, because they are located in the so-called double-tax non-tax area. Similarly, employment incomes of employees can be used by businesses to abuse their organisation in several countries, and in this case they can also avoid paying taxes. That is why this law, which limits such abuses, and the applicant's assessment is that these restrictions will also increase the inflow to the budget by at least a million euros. Therefore, in addition to a more favourable budgetary situation, it is also important that more justice is introduced and, last but not least, confidence and a favourable economic environment are created. That's why we're going to support this marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u130	Thank you very much. The text is by the Group of Members of the United Left, for which Mrs Violeta Tomić is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u131	Thank you for your word. Dear Vice-President, distinguished fellow Members and fellow Members! Today we are considering the amendment of the Law on corporate income tax, i.e. taxation of corporate profits. There are no doubt many shortcomings in this law, as shown by the fact that we are taxed substantially less than we could and should be taxed in this regard. If we look back a little bit, we can see that the revenue from this tax has been falling sharply over the last few years. In 2009, 712 million euros in revenue were realised, 668 million in 2011 and only 575 million are planned this year. The 2016 budget plan, however, again foresees a decrease of 15.8 million or 2.7%. This is, of course, unacceptable because we had 3% growth last year and this year will be 2.7% growth and in 2016 at least 2.3% growth. Therefore, taxation of profits is very wrong; what is wrong can be found by comparing taxation in Slovenia with taxation in other European countries. The data from the publication of trends in taxation issued by Eurostat each year show the following. In the European Union, on average 20 % of all tax revenues are collected by means of capital taxes, with the profit tax being far the largest tax. For us, only 10% of tax revenue was collected from capital taxes in 2012. A comparison of the tax base, i.e. the amount from which the tax is levied, shows that the long-term average in Austria was 25%, with us own 20% of GDP. According to this indicator, we were last placed in the European Union. I would stress that this is a long-term average, not a short-term trend. The tax rate is only 17% for us, in Austria for example 25%, in Italy even 27.5%. Taking this into account, we can find that we have a low tax rate and too much tax relief, which is why effective taxation is too low. The proposed novelty will increase the effective rate of taxation, but this is a technical correction for which the Government does not deserve, but a European directive. Additional revenue from the adoption of this novel will be symbolic, around a million euros. We are not opposed to this novel and will support it. Of course, at the time the budget is being drawn up for two years, the Government should present to the National Assembly a novel that would eliminate those reliefs that proved to be unjustified and with which the rate of tax on profits would return to 20%. I repeat, return because this is not about the lift, but about the correction of the mistake of the government of Janša-Šuštaršič. This means the budget needs blood. Over the last 10 years, taxes on profits and high incomes have been reduced several times, and the tax on paid salaries would have been fully abolished by 2009. None of these measures have contributed to development and growth. The macroeconomic shock due to the return on the profit rate from 17 to 20% will be short-term and low-cost, significantly lower than the positive effects of the increase in consumption. However, taking into account social impacts, the measure is all the more necessary. In 2013, the level of risk of poverty reached 14.5% higher than in 2005, since the use of the European methodology. This rate did not decrease last year, and in some vulnerable groups, such as single mothers or elderly single people in rural areas, it is 2- to 4-fold higher than this average. Slovenia committed itself in 2010 to reducing the number of poor by 40,000 by the end of the decade, in fact this figure has increased by 36,000 since 2010 and 65 thousand since 2007. Experience from years before the crisis clearly shows that economic growth alone does not solve the problem of poverty, so higher taxation of profits is inevitable and if not proposed by the Government, we will be in the United Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u132	Thank you very much. The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr. Joseph Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u133	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State Mr. Dragonja Methods, dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons, which we are considering today, will be supported by the New Slovenia Group of Members of the Christian Democrats. It is the implementation of two amendments to the Council Directive of the European Union on a common system of taxation of parent companies and subsidiaries from different Member States. The amendments to the Directive were necessary because of the changing circumstances. We are witnessing the rapid development of financial markets and the ever-new financial instruments that require always new legislative solutions. Double taxation is an area where action by the European Union is needed and because of different domestic laws there are also tax gaps. In particular, the tax gap has been recorded in the field of hybrid financing in cross-border groups. For each country, hybrid instruments are treated differently; one as debt, the other as equity, which, of course, has the effect of either obtaining a tax advantage, i.e. non-taxation or double taxation. The European Union is based on the free movement of goods, capital, services and persons. Within the framework of the common tax policy, the European Union shall adopt appropriate rules to remove tax barriers to cross-border economic activities, to combat harmful tax competition and to cooperate more closely between the tax administrations of individual Member States in the management and prevention of fraud. We can say that the European Union is quite successful in the area of free movement of goods, capital and services. It is less successful in regulating the common tax policy in the area of free movement of persons. While ensuring free labour mobility between Member States, the European Union has not established, at least not yet, a mechanism for equal tax burden for migrant workers. They are Slovenian cross-border migrant workers, working in the same environment as their Austrian counterparts and paying much higher taxes than they do. Such a situation deters our citizens from the desired mobility and free movement of labour within the Member States of the European Union, and the European Union is already very late in regulating this area. Perhaps, after the fifth European freedom that the Energy Union is expected to bring, it will be necessary at the level of the European Union to consider resolving tax discrimination against migrant workers, i.e. the tax union. You all know that I am referring to the Constitutional Court's decision regarding the Income Act, this decision must be respected perfectly normally, but there are certainly reserves at the level of the European Union to address this problem, which migrant workers in particular from Pomur, Styria and Koroška, of course, also from other border regions, simply suffer. Let me also remind you that on 20 January 2014, the European Commission announced that it would take such tax legislation under scrutiny and eliminate any tax discrimination in the field of migrant workers' taxation. So far, we are not aware of the results of the European Commission. As it is said, the amendment of the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons is supported by the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u134	Thank you very much. The text is addressed to Mr Branko Zorman, Group of the Modern Centre Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u135	Dear President, distinguished representatives of the Government, colleague and colleague! Double non-taxation is one of the key areas of the European Union where coordinated action has begun. This is a matter of improving the proper functioning of the internal market by removing tax gaps resulting from the exploitation of differences between tax systems of countries. Due to double non-taxation, Member States lose a lot of revenue, and unfair competition is generated between companies on the single market. The increase in cross-border investment has also allowed cross-border groups to use hybrid financial instruments and thus unjustifiable advantages due to differences in tax treatment between countries. The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons provides for the elimination of double non-taxation on the exemption of dividends due to non-compliance with so-called hybrid loans. All companies are therefore taxed on the profit obtained in each EU Member State and cannot avoid paying taxes to address the gaps arising from hybrid financing in cross-border cases. The bill also regulates the prevention of abuse of the Directive on a common system of taxation of parent companies and subsidiaries from different Member States. Taking into account other important objectives such as fair competition and efficiency, it is envisaged that action against double taxation due to so-called hybrid financial arrangements and against aggressive tax planning will have a positive impact on tax revenues. This has also been highlighted when adopting amendments to the EU Directive, which is transposed into the Slovenian legal order by this proposal. The impact of taxation in areas where tax or double non-taxation may have been broken down so far is expected to have an impact. As it will reduce the risk of new forms of aggressive tax planning and because of everything already mentioned, we will support the proposal of the Law on Taxation of Legal Persons in the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u136	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u137	Thank you for your word, Madam President, and welcome again! The amendment of the Law on corporate income tax is linked to amendments to the Directive and consequently to the transposition of European legislation into the Slovenian legal order, which must be transposed by the end of 2015. The Directive, which deals with the common system of taxation of parent and dependent companies from different Member States, has been amended twice in the last year and a half. It was found that the individual solutions related to the exemption from dividend tax paid by the subsidiary to the parent company in the form of a tax withdrawal, thereby eliminating double taxation at the level of the parent company, lead to abuse or double non-taxation. The differences between the tax systems of countries have been exploited, which means that Member States have lost a lot of revenue due to double non-taxation and unfair competition has been created between companies. The first amendment to the Directive concerns the elimination of double non-taxation by exempting dividends from hybrid loans, the second to the provision on the prevention of abuse of the Directive on the common system of taxation of Member States' parent and subsidiary companies, the third to include changes to the accounting rules relating to the re-measurement of pensions and pensions at the time of retirement. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, the proposed amendments to the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons agree and we will support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u138	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will be held tomorrow, Wednesday, 21st, in accordance with the meeting's timetable. Ten. 2015 in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 20. Agenda item — Second defence of the proposal for a law amending the law on railway safety, regular procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Klemen Grebenska, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Good-bye, everybody! The proposal for a law amending the Railway Safety Act covers the transposition of three Directives to a lesser extent, all three Directives covering different areas of railway safety and whose transposition deadline is over. The transposition of all three Directives is merely a matter of amending the Annexes to the Directives. In addition to these essential reasons for amending the law, the law contains an even smaller correction in an article referring to designated authorities under national rules. The amendment of the law will remove the requirement on the competence of the staff of the designated authority, since their tasks are not administrative matters and therefore do not lead the procedure or decide on the basis of the General Administrative Procedure Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u140	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. I give the floor to Mr Igor Zorčič, President of the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u141	Thank you for your word. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is held at its 13th meeting, on 1. Ten. 2015 as a parent working body, the proposal for a law amending the Law on Rail Safety submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following a regular procedure. Representatives of the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Commission of the State Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, Slovenian Railways, the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Rail Transport and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly participated in the meeting of the Committee. In a complementary explanation for the proposal, the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Peter Gasperšič, stressed that the main purpose of the proposal is to transpose the three Directives, namely Directive 2014/38/EU, for which the transposition deadline was 1. 1. 2015, Directive 2014/88/EU, for which the time limit for transposition was 30. 6. 2015 and Directive 2014/82/EU, which should be transposed into the Slovenian legal order by 1. Seven. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In addition to these reasons for amending the applicable law, the law contains an even smaller amendment in an article referring to designated authorities under domestic law. The amendment of the law will address the irregularity of the competence of the staff of the designated authority, since their tasks are not administrative matters and therefore do not lead the procedure or decide on the basis of the General Administrative Procedure Act. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service stressed that the Legislative and Legal Service had examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the legal system and the technical and technical aspects, and had made certain comments to each article, which were fully taken into account in the amendments of the coalition groups. The representative of the Commission of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Regional Development stressed that the Commission supports the bill and has no substantive comments on it. A representative of the Slovenian Railways and a representative of the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for rail transport have also joined the Commission in finding that a law governing railway safety is needed for more comprehensive renovations. They pointed out, however, that the drafting of the new law would be very difficult as part of the provisions of the current law would have to be replaced by technical specifications and interoperability, i.e. by EU rules, and part of the provisions would have to be replaced by the provisions of the safety management system of carriers and operators. The short discussion raised the question whether the implementation of the Directives, which are the main content of the proposal for a law, introduced a certain professional deregulation, to which the representative of the Ministry of Infrastructure replied that the current rules on the professional competence of executive railway workers, which set out in detail the conditions to be met by candidates for the posts of executive railway workers, did not affect the implementation of the Directives. The Committee adopted amendments by the coalition group members to the title of the Chapter of the Transitional and Final Provisions and to Articles 3 and 4. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u142	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matjaž Germany.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u143	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! These are minor substantive changes to the law, the main objective of which is to transpose the three EU directives into the Slovenian legal order. The first Directive concerns the issue of driver certificates and includes amendments to the three Annexes to the Directive governing health requirements, the requirement of general expertise and requirements for authorisation and language verification. It is also important to lay down this Directive, which provides that the modification of the conditions does not affect the licences already granted. The second Directive amends the Annex to Directive 2004/49/EU which regulates common safety indicators. The change is a shift from the indicators related to the cost of accidents carried by railways to the indicators related to the economic impact of accidents on society. Common definitions of common safety indicators and methods for calculating the economic impact of an accident are also important, but they do not require changes to the definitions in the law, at least the latter are not only linked to common safety indicators but are generally applicable. However, the third Directive limits the operation of the rail system in terms of the prohibition of an unacceptable noise emission rate in the vicinity of the railway infrastructure or in the driver's cabin. In addition to the transposition of Directives, the proposal for a law removes irregularities that personnel responsible for the performance of the functions of the designated authority must also fulfil the conditions of competence under the General Administrative Procedure Act, although this is not an activity related to administrative matters. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we will support the proposed amendments to the Railway Safety Act and the proposed editorial amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u144	Thank you very much. The text is given by the United Left Group, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u145	Thank you for your word, Madam President. A respected choir! The United Left will support the amendment of the Rail Transport Act. Although the implementation of the three European directives is a matter of legal order in Slovenia, this time the changes envisaged are both timely and welcome. This is, for example, the one where changes in the design and operation of the railway infrastructure should not result in an unacceptable noise emission rate both in the vicinity of this infrastructure and in the driver’s cab. This may seem trivial to someone, even insignificant, but such measures definitely contribute to the quality of life of the inhabitants in such infrastructure areas as well as to improving the working conditions of the drivers mentioned earlier. However, despite agreeing on the proposal of the amended law, we would like to draw attention to two issues. The first problem has already been pointed out by the Commission of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, and we have talked about this later at the national labour body in the National Assembly. The existing Railway Safety Act is obsolete and requires more extensive and comprehensive renovations, not just patching up every new directive. It seems increasingly to us that in fact the Government or individual ministries follow only a few instructions from Brussels. If we are to justify the existence of our own country, we must, of course, design a strategy for the development of individual social systems on our own and without any external compulsion. In short, we must also consider the directives that we are implementing, as we say. Transport is certainly one of those on the priority list, if I may put it that way. The second problem related to this law, which we would like to highlight in the United Left, is the result of liberalisation and at least partial privatisation of this area, which will be foreseen or allowed by the so-called fourth railway package and will also be part of the amendment to the Rail Transport Act, which we will be considering today. In particular, if we look at, as I have mentioned many times, Great Britain, where a similar process began 20 years ago, we can see that the price is paid mainly by users in the form of a higher price of services, usually also lower quality of services, but sometimes due to lower safety standards including life. In short, any improvement in rail safety, not just in rail transport, but elsewhere, is welcome. However, in the case of minor changes in legislation in this type of amendment, we also need to take into account a broader picture, because we can very quickly get a patch through this smaller novelization and also the so-called inherent noise. As I said before, the main threat that is more the topic of another amendment, this fourth package, is to consider the privatisation of rail transport, in particular in the area of some smaller countries, smaller systems, and some awareness that in due course this law, which we are amending, must be rewritten and adapted to the 21st century and, ultimately, to travel speeds and safety standards in rail transport in the 21st century. But despite what I've already said, we're going to support the innovation. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u146	Thank you very much. The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr. Joseph Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u147	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Secretary of State with co-workers and co-workers, dear colleagues and colleagues! During this week in the National Assembly, we are adopting a number of new laws that we simply need to adopt. The proposal for amendments to the Railway Safety Act is also one of them. For this is the implementation of the three directives which should be transposed into our legal order before summer this year. Therefore, a major change is the removal of irregularities with regard to the conditions to be met by the staff responsible for the introduction of the verification procedure of subsystems in accordance with national rules, in addition to other conditions. Since these tasks are not subject to administrative procedures, the obligation to know the administrative procedure is deleted for those persons. As comprehensive reforms are urgently needed in the current Railway Safety Act, we propose that the Government prepare it as soon as possible. The aim is to ensure safe and orderly rail transport, the responsibilities and responsibilities of participants in ensuring railway safety, the development of common safety objectives and common safety methods and common principles in the management, management and control of rail safety. We, colleagues and colleagues, are waiting to ensure, improve and develop an interoperable trans-European rail system in the area of Slovenia, improve and develop international rail transport services in the common market of the European Union and, of course, with third countries, as well as create a common market for equipment and services for the construction, maintenance and operation of the rail system. But this rail system at the threshold of the third millennium, not that rail system from the Preshern times when he wrote about the railroad. In New Slovenia, we will support the amendment because we are aware of our country's tasks in this area and because we do not want an even greater delay to be the reason for the reminder. However, we are concerned that the Government is so slow to respond and is taking small steps. In particular, it hunts hands and transposes directives into our legal order. That's too bad.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u148	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, Mr Ivan Prelog.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u149	Honourable President, Honourable Council of Ministers, Honourable Colleagues and Fellow Members! The guiding principle of the proposal for a law amending the Railway Safety Act is to bring the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia into line with the EU acquis. The new law covers the transposition of three directives, to a lesser extent since only the Annexes to Directive 2014/38, Directive 2014/88 of the EU and Directive 2014/82 of the EU are transposed into Slovenian legislation. The amendment of the law will address the irregularity of the competence of the persons appointed by the designated authority, since their tasks are not administrative matters and therefore do not conduct proceedings and decide on the basis of the General Administrative Procedure Act. For example, the Railway Agency and the Slovenian Railways – Infrastructure, d.o.o. With the amendments adopted by the coalition parliamentary groups on the home working body, the draft law is also in line with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. The Commission of the National Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development also supports the proposed legislation. Let me also mention that in the coalition contract, we have committed coalition partners to align the organisation of the rail system with the European directives in this area. For these reasons, however, due mainly to the broad harmonisation and support of the law, we decided in the SMC Group that we would support the proposal for a law amending the Railway Safety Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u150	Thank you very much. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mr Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u151	Thank you for the floor, Madam President, distinguished representatives of the Ministry, colleague and colleague! We have before us a proposal for a law amending the Railway Safety Act. This amendment to the Railway Safety Act is about changes in the smaller scope that transpose the requirements of the three Directives into our legal order. These are amendments relating to the Annexes to these Directives themselves. In this case, the deadline for implementation has also expired when the requirements set out in the Annexes to Directive 2014/38 are transferred early this year, when the requirements of the Annexes to Directive 2014/88 to 30 June this year and when the requirements of the Annexes to Directive 2014/82 to 1 July this year are transferred. In addition to these essential reasons for amendment, the law contains an even smaller correction in an article referring to designated authorities under national rules. This amendment of the law will remove the requirement for the competence of the persons appointed by the body, as their tasks are not administrative matters and therefore do not lead the procedure and decide on the basis of the General Administrative Procedure Act. The Slovenian Railways also participated in the drafting of this Act and fully support it because it adequately implements the Directives which are subject to law. They point out, however, that as soon as possible, approaches to the preparation of a completely new Railway Safety Act, which will also have to be conceptually different from that in force. Part of these provisions currently contained in the draft law will be replaced by technical specifications for interoperability. These will be the rules at European Union level and part will be replaced by the provisions of the safety management system for carriers and operators under the supervision of the security authority. The Public Agency for Rail Transport also supports the proposal of the law and at the same time joins the conclusion that the Railway Safety Act needs to be thoroughly recast in the future. Of course, we will need to think carefully about how to make it up. We do not oppose the proposed amendments to the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, nor do we oppose the amendment that has been tabled.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat has the floor of the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u153	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear representatives of the Ministry, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a law amending the Railway Safety Act is a proposal that transposes European directives into Slovenian law. In this case, the transposition of the three directives or their annexes is to a lesser extent. Unfortunately, this is also the case for directives where the deadline for their transposition into the Slovenian legal order has expired. I would not discuss the content of the directives because we have already heard about their content from previous debaters in the positions of individual parliamentary groups. In addition to the transposition of the Directives, this amendment also removes the anomaly with regard to the competence of the staff of the designated authority, since their tasks are not administrative matters and therefore do not lead the procedure or decide on the basis of the General Administrative Procedure Act. Since the proposal of the novel does not bring about any major substantive and, above all, controversial changes, Members and Members of the Desus Group will support the amendment of the law. At the same time, I would like to reiterate the warnings that have been heard on several occasions when the proposal is being considered by the representatives of the Slovenian Railways and the Railway Agency, that the law in force is already quite outdated and needs a comprehensive overhaul. With these warnings in the Desus Group, we agree and appeal to the Minister to proceed with a comprehensive revision of the current Railway Safety Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u154	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will be held tomorrow, Wednesday, 21st, in accordance with the timing of the State Assembly meeting. Ten. 2015 in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 21. This is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Gradual Closure of the Trunk-Bowler Mine and the Developmental Prestructuring of the Region under the Regular Procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Klemna Grebenska, State Secretary, Ministry of Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u155	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, you have before you the proposal for a law amending the Law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine and the development restructuring of the region. The current law allows employees in Trbovlje-Hrastnik to leave the labour market prematurely through a system of occupational retirement. Prior amendments to the law laid down specific conditions for the acquisition of a professional pension. However, the reason for the re-amendment of the law is that the existing regime has not been sufficiently developed and some of the rights of insurers have even been duplicated, such as the parallel inclusion in pension and disability insurance and the purchase of pensions for the same period. The amendments and amendments to the law are therefore prepared with a view to eliminating, for the first time, certain uncertainties regarding the implementation of the law and, secondly, that the employer may terminate the employment relationship, irrespective of Article 114 of the Labour Relations Act, to a worker who fulfils the conditions for occupational retirement and who may exercise the right to a professional pension. Ambiguities regarding the implementation of the law shall be resolved by establishing the order of rights to be taken into account in the calculation of the amount of the resource deficit for each right. It is established that the payment of the funding deficit is the contribution of the Republic of Slovenia. It is then laid down that the beneficiary may exercise the right to voluntary inclusion in compulsory pension and disability insurance under the Pension and Disability Insurance Act and, at the time of occupational retirement, to make up for a pension period of up to 40 years of pensionable age, which together may allow a retirement pension for a maximum of 40 years. The order of rights financed by available funds is provided for cases where the funds would not be sufficient for the payment of the occupational pension at the intended amount and for the full payment of the contribution to the purchase of the pension period. Rules are laid down for the implementation of the retirement period in order to ensure that the insured person receives the appropriate old-age pension in compulsory pension and disability insurance. In addition, rules are laid down for the management of funds paid by the Republic of Slovenia in the cash account of the Compulsory Additional Pension Insurance Fund. It is also specified how the insured person may have the surplus in his personal account. The law further provides that employees in the RTH who fulfil the minimum conditions for obtaining the right to a professional pension in accordance with the Act on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine and the development restructuring of the region may be cancelled. A staff member's employment relationship may be waived when he fulfils the conditions for occupational retirement. The conditions for occupational retirement are met or will also be met by workers belonging to a protected category of workers from dismissal. RTH currently employs approximately 50% of employees with legal protection against dismissal, so without the proposed legislative changes to remedy this protection, it will not be possible to establish the necessary number of redundant workers and develop a programme to resolve them. Such a provision has also touched on the categories of workers with legal protection against dismissal, including trade unionists and, or members of the Council of Workers or Supervisory Authorities of the Society, older workers or workers who are under five years of age to fulfil the conditions for the exercise of the right to an old pension and disabled persons. With the possibility of cancelling an employment contract to an employee who fulfils the conditions for occupational retirement, the requirements of the company's financial restructuring plan, which provides for the dismissal of workers to the extent that only 30 workers will be employed at the end of the year, could be approached. While this is a derogation from the system regime in the Labour Relations Act, it is necessary to close the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine and the company’s financial restructuring. It should be pointed out that the employees of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine are eligible for termination of the employment contract irrespective of Article 114(1) of the Labour Relations Act, with the possibility of exercising the right to a professional pension guaranteed social security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u156	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u157	Thank you for your word. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is at its 13th session. Ten. 2015 as a parent working body considered the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine and the development restructuring of the region submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following a regular procedure. Representatives of the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Commission of the State Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, the Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia – the Union of Workers of Energy Activities of Slovenia, the Rudnika Trbovlje-Hrastnik, d.o.o., and the Legislative and Legal Service participated in the meeting of the Committee. In the supplementary explanation, on behalf of the applicant, the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Peter Gasperšič, stressed that the law in force allows employees in the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Rudnik, d.o.o., to leave the labour market prematurely through a system of professional retirement. The previous amendments to the law laid down specific conditions for the acquisition of a professional pension, and the reason for the re-amendment of the law is that the existing scheme has not been sufficiently elaborated and some of the rights of insurers have even been duplicated. The draft law removes this ambiguity by establishing the order of rights to be taken into account in the calculation of the amount of the shortfall in resources for each right and provides that the payment of the shortfall in appropriations for the occupational pension and the acquisition of the pension period is the contribution of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft law also provides that the beneficiary may exercise the right to voluntary inclusion in compulsory pension and disability insurance under the Pension and Disability Insurance Act and, at the time of occupational retirement, the sum of the pension age between 40 and 40 years of retirement age, which together may allow him to receive a pension pension for a maximum of 40 years. The draft law also lays down rules for the management of funds paid by the Republic of Slovenia in the cash account of the Fund for Compulsory Additional Pension Insurance, and also provides for the manner in which the insured person may have the surplus in his personal account. The draft law also allows the employer to terminate the employment relationship irrespective of Article 114 of the Labour Relations Act, a worker who fulfils the conditions of occupational retirement and who is able to exercise the right to a professional pension. Although the measure constitutes a derogation from the system regime in the ZDR1, due to the implementation of the closure of the RTH and the financial restructuring of the company in accordance with the amended RTH phasing-in programme for the period 2013 to 2018 and the financial restructuring plan prepared by RTH on the basis of the requests of the banks of the creditors, which lists even more acute conditions for the implementation of the closure with regard to the reduction of the number of employees. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service pointed out that the Legislative and Legal Service had examined the draft law and had commented on it. However, on the basis of these comments, amendments have been drawn up by coalition parliamentary groups, which largely address the shortcomings. The President of the Commission of the National Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development stressed that the Commission did not support the draft law. In its opinion, the Commission notes in particular that the draft law proposes, inter alia, a reduction in the contribution of the Republic of Slovenia to the premium or monetary aid only for those recipients who have self-employed or have received the assistance of farmers, but not for those workers who have been employed by the new employer. This proposal follows the proposal's explanation for the aim of actively resolving individual employees through one measure and therefore it is not possible to benefit further from the case for self-employment or cash assistance and, after the last two years, the right to undeclared professional retirement. The representative of the Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia, on behalf of the Union of Workers of Energy Activities of Slovenia, pointed out that the proposal for a law in such a form as was initially put into the legislative process, was not supported by the union. The reason was in those solutions in the draft law, to which the Legislative and Legal Service also made comments and warnings. Members and Members of Parliament have set out a key part of the debate on the proposed solution in Article 2 of the bill amending, inter alia, the sixth paragraph of Article 16c of the current law. With regard to the concerns expressed, the Minister of Infrastructure and the Secretary of the Ministry of Infrastructure explained that the proposal for a law provided that a worker who decided to exercise the right to a professional pension and the missing funds to be provided by the Republic of Slovenia for the payment of a professional pension for the purchase of a retirement pension, in addition to the currently valid reduction in the pension, should also be reduced for the premium or monetary assistance paid for its discharge. However, on the basis of the alerts by the ZPS, the deficiencies have been resolved and the beneficiaries are equalised. The Committee adopted the amendments of the coalition parties' parliamentary groups, but did not adopt the amendments of the United Left Group to Article 2. He then voted on all the articles of the bill together and adopted them.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u158	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is by the Group of Members of the United Left, for which Mrs Violeta Tomić is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u159	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We support the new Law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine and the development restructuring of the region in the Group of Members of the United Left. If these are the last changes and amendments to the law – it has been updated five times so far – it will be part of the conclusion of the mining story in Zasavje, which is the conclusion of a much broader story. In 1924, Communist miners faced fascist paratroopers, one of the first cases of the fight against fascism in our country. The Trbovlje coal mining company during the interwar Yugoslavia was not only the largest company in the territory of Slovenia, but the whole of Yugoslavia. In 1958, Ripper miners performed the first sentence in socialist Yugoslavia. In short, it is a story of national and even broader importance, and the conclusion must be duly respected. However, the content of the novel version sent by the Government for parliamentary consideration does not show such respect. Here we are focusing on an attempt to reduce the former miners' occupational pension even further by the premium they received in order to resolve their existential position. This would, of course, be problematic due to retroactivity and unjustified division into those former employees who have self-employed or who have received the purchase aid to a farmer, as well as because it would further exacerbate the social situation of former employees in the RTH. The reason why the Government took a group of about 43 former miners as a target is that we do not know the United Left in the Group, but we are pleased that later, when we tabled an amendment to prevent this injustice, they acknowledged their error by introducing their amendment with a similar content. On this occasion, however, I would like to point out something else. The floor cover is certainly exhausted and the social situation of the remaining miners must be resolved, and so is our support for this novel. However, it is unacceptable that the method of closure of RTH does not dictate the interests of employees and the wider environment in which RTH was one of the few remaining large employees. As reported in the summers, there is already Greece in the Rippers. The registered unemployment rate was 20,5 % or almost 2 times the national average there in July this year. Instead, RTH’s closure is dictated by the interests of banks with which a financial restructuring plan has been drawn up and which, as the Commission of the State Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development has also pointed out, as a guarantee for claims has been taken by the socially weak apartments. Therefore, we need to take the closure of RTH as a teaching lesson in society, which looks at all its problems only through the eyeglasses of the accountant, but as we know socialists, some things like human life and respect for history are not for sale. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u160	The word is given by the New Slovenia Group of Members - Christian Democrats, for which Mr Jožef Horvat is responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u161	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleague, respected colleagues! The Law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine and the development restructuring of the region was amended twice in the last year alone, both for the fulfilment of the commitments of the Human Resources and Social Programme. Special conditions were laid down for the acquisition of a professional pension. The reason for the re-amendment of the law, as the Minister of Infrastructure himself points out, is that the existing regime has not been sufficiently elaborated and that some insurance rights have even been duplicated. I would almost hope to say that you're making fun of us Members and even more of the Suwab miners. So it is a sad story, and this story should be raised here in the National Assembly, even though it is extremely clean. In Novi Slovenija, we were already skeptical of the estimated amount of funds to be allocated from the state budget to address Zasavje's pressing environmental and economic problems and thereby mitigate the consequences of the closure of the mine. At that time, the government merely assumed that it would need between €6.9 million and €12.05 million. This raises the question why the issue of occupational pensions for certain categories of hard-to-work older workers with specific education is being resolved by the Government only step by step and only because of the agreement on restructuring claims with banks creditors. With them, Rudnik Trbovlje-Hrastnik committed to reduce the number of employees from 130 to 30 by the end of this year and to pay almost 15 million debts to banks in part this year at 14% and the remainder by 2018. Since the country obviously cannot do this differently, it simply proposes saving on the shoulders of miners. With this modified occupational retirement, the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine is expected to save between €4.4 million and €6.2 million, thus fulfilling its obligations to banks. And let's look at the other side of the story. The Mine Audit last year revealed that the costs of supervisors represent as much as 60% of the losses in closed parts. Yeah, you heard right, 60%! Last year, the RTH Group produced €467,000 in net losses, and meetings and awards amounted to 108% more than in 2013. In view of these sad facts, we cannot really talk about solving the problem of Zasavje and the mitigation of the social pressures of miners, but only about the resolution of banks of creditors that will be paid in the worst case by selling more than a hundred homes in which they live socially at risk. On the one hand, therefore, savings in miners and, on the other hand, reward the overseers responsible for today’s situation in the mine. In Novi Slovenija we are aware that all procedures for closing the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine, including ecological spatial rehabilitation, should be carried out by the end of the extended period, that is until 31. 12. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We are also aware that the number of employees needs to be reduced, but not at all costs. The termination of employment contracts for employees belonging to the category of protected workers is such a drastic measure, even a departure from the system regime in the Labour Relations Act, that, taking into account all the other facts, we cannot talk about the rescue of people and also about their guaranteed social security. We will not support the bill in the New Slovenia Group, nor will we oppose it.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u162	The word shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, to her mag. I'm holding Bon Clanjschek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine and the development restructuring of the region is, as the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has warned, the sixth since we have the law. The essence of the law is to enable mine workers to retire through a system of occupational retirement. The law provided for conditions allowing this retirement. In the debate we held on the competent working body, the Minister highlighted the duplication of rights, which should be the reason for us to recast the law, as has already been said, six times. Thus, according to the Minister, today's novelty of ambiguity in connection with the implementation of the law and the duplication of certain rights should be abolished. A new order of rights to be taken into account in the calculation of the amount of the resource deficit for each right shall be established. It is also specified how the insured person may have the surplus in his personal account, as well as the rules for the management of the funds paid by the Republic of Slovenia in the cash account of the Compulsory Additional Pension Insurance Fund. It is laid down that the beneficiary may exercise the right of voluntary inclusion in compulsory pension disability insurance under the Pension and Disability Insurance Act and, at the time of occupational retirement, the sum of the pension age between 40 and 40 years of retirement. There are also rules for the execution of the retirement period in order to ensure that the insured person is provided with an appropriate dose of the old pension. Since the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine is closed, a contract of employment may be cancelled for employees in the mine who meet the minimum conditions for obtaining the right to a professional pension. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we support the objectives pursued by the law. On the Infrastructure Committee, we highlighted the issue of equal treatment of miners, which will be dealt with under this law. The same dilemma was also pointed out by representatives of the Council of State. To be honest, we are still not entirely convinced, but we believe in the word that all miners will be treated equally at the time of the entry into force of this law and after the entry into force of your novel, and in particular that they will have the same rights. We will support the amendment of the Law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine in the Group of Non-Related Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u164	Mr Igor Zorčič, of the Modern Centre Party Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u165	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine and the development restructuring of the region primarily sets out the ways, hands and sources of funding for the implementation of the progressive closure programme of RDH, Rudnik Trbovlje-Hrastnik d.o.o. The proposal for a law provides for the introduction of a staff-social programme for the re-employment of redundant workers and occupational retirement under facilitated conditions. The requirement for the acquisition of a professional pension and, where necessary, the acquisition of a pension period shall be equalised to the requirement for the acquisition of a professional pension for individual categories of employees in the public company Rudnik Trbovlje-Hrastnik, d.o.o., and the possibility of cancellation of a contract of employment shall also be specified when the conditions for a professional pension are met. The proposed amendments and additions to the law constitute the legal basis for co-financing the payment of the occupational pension in the event that the funds in the insurance account are not sufficient to cover this obligation. The amendment also provides for an amendment which will allow the employer to cancel the employment contract for employees who meet the minimum conditions for obtaining the right to a professional pension. At the same time, the dismissal of workers belonging to the category of protected workers is also regulated. The adoption of the draft law will enable the implementation of the RTH phase-in programme for the period 2013–2018, which was adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on 16 April 2014 and is in accordance with the principle of financial restructuring prepared by the company on the basis of the requests of the banks of creditors. In preparing the content and the solution of the law, the bill was coordinated with the representative of the RTH trade union and the text of the law was also addressed by the Economic and Social Council. In the SMC Group, we will support, for these reasons, the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine and the development restructuring of the region with amendments, which have been tabled on the basis of comments made by the Legal Service and not by other parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u166	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Bojan Podkoršek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u167	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine and the development restructuring of the region. The proposed amendment of the law is already the sixth after two years. The law provides for a staff-social programme which allows for the re-employment of redundant workers and their occupational retirement under special conditions. The amendment of the law also removes some confusion in the implementation of the law among others. We also point out in the parliamentary group the inadequacy of the proposed solutions, which are the result of the continuous amendment of the law. Article 2 corrections are also imprecise and incomprehensible in some places. Since the bill is important for this region, we will not oppose the proposed amendment of the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u168	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Ivan Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u169	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear representatives of the Ministry, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Today, for the ninth time, if I am not mistaken, we are considering a proposal for a new Law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine and the development restructuring of the region. It basically provides for the implementation of the Gradual Closure Programme of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine and provides for a staff-social programme which allows for the re-employment of redundant workers and their professional retirement under special conditions. This is a proposal for a law that raises a large part of Zasavje when almost every amendment takes place, as they are rightly concerned that the inhabitants of the region will be deprived of any other rights or means to alleviate their social distress. This novel has, of course, brought some excitement, as this novelty, due to the lack of budgetary resources, proposes that workers exercising the right to occupational retirement be reduced by the lack of funds provided by the Republic of Slovenia for the payment of their occupational pension and the voluntary inclusion in compulsory pension or retirement, both by the retirement received at the time of termination of their employment, as well as for the premium or cash assistance when they are self-employed or as a contribution to the farmer. The most important thing for us in the parliamentary group and for me personally is that the social protection of the last hundred miners is provided in the best possible way that they can be taken care of in the current situation. At the same time, in our Group of Members, we are reassured that the amendment of the law does not interfere with the necessary funds for the rehabilitation of degraded mining areas, which means that in 2016 and 2017, as well as with the Ministry's firm assurances, there will also be so much funding available in 2018 for the rehabilitation provided for by the law in force. We will support the bill in the parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u170	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matjaž Germany.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u171	Thank you, President. The bill aims to complete the closing works in Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine, including the possibility of a consistent implementation of the human and social programme. It is a matter of trying to solve the problem of redundant workers belonging to the category of protection workers in dynamics or in the manner set out in the amended RTH phase-in programme for the period 2013-2018 and the financial restructuring plan. RTH is currently lagging behind in its employment closure plan, which is additionally causing liquidity problems and could jeopardise its business to the extent that creditors may even propose bankruptcy. The latter would be the worst option for everyone, so this scenario must be prevented. The previously adopted solutions to the law laid down specific conditions for the acquisition of a professional pension, but the existing regime has not been sufficiently elaborated and some rights for insurers have also been duplicated and the proposed amendments to this Act have been abolished. The full financing of these measures in RTH is carried out as confirmed State aid. The measures notified by the Republic of Slovenia to the European Commission provide that the cave facilities will be closed by the end of 2015 and that the ecological rehabilitation carried out by 2018, when the remaining jobs need to be phased out. RTH should reduce the number of employees to 30 in 2015 and the proposed law should therefore be adopted to this end. At present, RTH has approximately 50% of employees who are legally protected from dismissal, so the law provides for the possibility of cancelling the contract, but only for those employees who meet the conditions for receiving a professional pension. This is indeed a derogation from the system regime provided for in Article 114 of the Labour Relations Act, but in these cases it is an extremely specific situation which must not become a general practice or even a model of over-worker resolution. It is also true that this solution pursues the fundamental objective of ensuring at least a minimum standard of social security for all workers. We must also pay attention to the warnings given to trade unions and employees in RTH, who have for a long time been pointing out the difficulties in the implementation of the law itself. In particular, it is a matter of covering the country's obligations under occupational pensions and payment of premiums. In previous discussions, serious warnings were also given that the proposed legal solutions introduce a distinction in the scope of the rights of those workers who have retired or self-employed before the law comes into force and those who do so after the law has been enforced to the detriment of the latter. With the adoption of the amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups at the meeting of the parent working body, we have also eliminated this distinction and, according to the Minister's clear assurances, the conditions for all workers in RTH will be the same once this law has been implemented. Social Democrats will support the proposed amendment of the Law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine and the development restructuring of the region. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u172	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place tomorrow, according to the meeting time schedule. Ten. 2015, in the context of the votes This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 22. PERIOD OF THE DAY — ANOTHER PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE TRAINING LAW, Regular Procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure mag. Clemen Grebenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u173	Thank you very much. You have before you a proposal for the amendment to the Rail Transport Act. The proposed amendments and additions include the transposition of the provisions of the Directive establishing a single European rail network into the Slovenian legal order, the transfer of essential functions of the infrastructure manager related to the timetable, the allocation of train paths and the charging of charges from the Public Railway Agency to the public railway infrastructure manager, the SŽ-Infrastructure, the establishment of a competent authority to implement the Common Safety Method Regulation for supervision by national security authorities following the issue of a safety certificate or safety authorisation issued by the Public Railway Agency. The content of the proposed amendments relates in more detail to the definition of the independence of the public railway infrastructure manager, the definition of the independence of the carriers, the definition of tasks related to their work, the definition of the essential functions of the operator, which must be completely separate from the carrier, the award of the public economic service for the operation of public railway infrastructure and the management of traffic, the transfer of tasks related to the timetable and the allocation of train paths and the charging of charges, the definition of the railway transport agency to the SZ – Infrastructure, the definition of the electronic procedure for the allocation of train paths from application to assignment, the definition of the purpose of the use, the definition of incentives and the mode of efficiency, the definition of cross-border agreements, the definition of monitoring of the development of railway services and the authorities, the definition of the safety of the working path, the definition of the scope of the application, the definition of a specific task and the definition of a cross-border agreement. The proposal in the work relating to the transfer of tasks related to train routes, use and timetables from the Public Agency for Rail Transport to the Infrastructure Manager has been thoroughly discussed and coordinated with the representatives of the European Commission with regard to the provisions on ensuring the independence of the operator. The material indicates that we are late for the transposition of the Single Railway Area Directive because its transposition deadline expired on 16 June 2015. The delay was due to long-term sectoral and intersectoral coordination, as well as to the coordination of appropriate solutions with the European Commission. The scope of amendments and additions covers more than a third of the articles of the basic law, which is why, according to the rules of the nomotechnicians, we should prepare a new law, but we have not decided on such a solution for the following reason. At EU level, the so-called fourth railway package will be adopted at the final stage of the adoption of the Union rail legislation. It is expected that the basic acts covering the Interoperability and Security Directive and the Regulation on the European Railway Agency will be published by the end of this year. On the basis of these acts, we will prepare proposals for new railway transport and safety laws at the Ministry of Infrastructure with the cooperation of all railway actors in Slovenia. On the basis of the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we propose that a third consideration of the proposed law be held at the same meeting. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u174	The proposal for a law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u175	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is held at its 13th meeting, on 1. Ten. 2015 as a parent working body, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Rail Transport Act submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following a regular procedure. Representatives of the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Commission of the State Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, Slovenian Railways – Infrastructure, d.o.o. and Legal and Legislative Services participated in the meeting of the Committee. In a complementary explanation for the proposal, the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Peter Gasperšič, stressed that the main purpose of the proposal is to implement Directive 2012/34/EU establishing a single European railway area, which should already be transposed into the Slovenian legal order by 16 June 2015. He pointed out that the proposal for a law constitutes a transfer of the essential functions of the infrastructure manager relating to the timetable, the allocation of train routes and the charging of charges from the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for rail transport to the public railway infrastructure manager, to the Slovenian Railway Company – Infrastructure, d.o.o. In addition, the designation of the Railway Agency as the competent authority for the implementation of the Common Safety Regulation and the method of control carried out by national safety authorities after the issue of a safety certificate or safety authorisation shall be regulated. The definition of the independence of infrastructure managers and the definition of the independence of carriers were also given among the main solutions. The Minister also highlighted the substantive and procedural definition of the contract for the implementation of the public economic service for the maintenance of public rail infrastructure and the management of transport, which is determined after the new five-year decision, and the identification of essential functions of the operator, which must be completely separate from the carrier, such as the allocation of train paths and the collection of supplies. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service pointed out that the PSC also made some comments on individual articles, which were largely taken into account in the amendments of the coalition groups. The representative of the Commission of the National Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development stressed that the Commission supports the bill. The debate raised the question whether the implementation of the Directive paved the way for the liberalisation of the national rail market, in particular in terms of the provision of an economic public passenger transport service. The Minister of Infrastructure pointed out that the implementation of the directive was exclusively a separation of the railway infrastructure manager from the carriers, pointing out that there was a proposal by the European Commission that the passenger transport market should be liberalised in a way that would allow the implementation of the economic public service to be awarded on call. The proposal is still in preparation, and Slovenia, as a small market, is committed to allowing it the possibility of awarding economic public service directly, as it is now regulated. Regarding the positive effects expected from the implementation of the Directive into the Slovenian legal order, the meeting was exposed to: the introduction of an electronic submission of train path requirements, which will shorten the time for carriers to allocate the train path, in the case of an electronic fee application, will no longer be charged, which will also reduce the costs for carriers, as a result of the transfer of tasks from the AŽP to the Slovenian Railways – Infrastructure can also be expected to be slightly more efficient, since on Slovenian railways – Infrastructure, compared to the Railway Agency, is directly involved in the rail system, which can help to carry out the tasks assigned to them by the new laws. The Committee adopted amendments from SMC, Desus and SD to Articles 2, 3, 8, 9, 10, 13, 16, 18, 20, 21, 22, 24, 25 and 34. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u176	Here comes the presentation of the position of the members of the groups. The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr. Joseph Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u177	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Again, we have before us a proposal for a law that we must adopt, because we have already received an official reminder from the European Commission in July this year, because we have not done our tasks. We're late again. The Directive establishing a single European railway area should be transposed into the Slovenian legal order by 16 June of this year. Again, the only reason for the adoption of the amendment to the Rail Transport Act is simply the implementation of the regulation or directive, which is very poorly implemented, since in large part it is only a literal translation and not a substantive adaptation of the provisions of our national legislation. This changes almost every article of the law, which has become completely opaque and unclear. Although the Ministry of Infrastructure explains that they will prepare a new law as soon as the fourth railway package is adopted at the level of the European Union, which will fully renovate the area of European rail legislation in the security, transport and infrastructure fields. In Nova Slovenija we are aware that some changes to today's novel are welcome. Transfer of essential functions of the infrastructure manager related to the timetable, the allocation of train paths and the charging of charges from the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for rail transport to the manager of public railway infrastructure, that is to say on Slovenian railways – Infrastructure, d.o.o. Independence of infrastructure managers and independence of carriers are crucial. The conclusion of public economic services contracts, the maintenance of public railway infrastructure and the management of transport for a period of five years is also welcome. Given the smallness of the Slovenian market, the way in which this public service is carried out is essential; with or without a public invitation to tender, as we now have. Passenger transport must not become subject to the weighting of different interests. What does today's implementation of the directive mean, therefore, what are the positive effects? In fact, there are no revolutionary or such that would significantly interfere with the intestines of Slovenian rail transport. Electronic submission of requirements for a train path without the payment of an administrative fee or the purpose of a service paid by the carrier to the operator for the use of a public railway infrastructure, covering the costs of carrying out the activities of the operator instead of the current maintenance of the railway infrastructure are just small pieces which do not bring any material to the current legislation. In Novi Slovenija we will only support the bill for the reason that it is necessary, because otherwise an official reminder would follow the procedure for sentencing. You could say that the government is forcing such procedures. The argument that long-term cross-cutting coordination and further coordination with the representatives of the European Commission was overstated.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u178	The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mr Danilo Anton Ranc.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u179	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Dr. Milan Brglez, Honourable Secretary of State of Mag. Klemen Grebenšek with fellow Members, honourable Members and Members! In the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, we will support the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Rail Transport Act, as the amendment of the Law removes shortcomings from the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 11 June 2013, which recognises the non-implementation of the Directives in question. The provisions of Directive 2012/34 of the European Parliament and of the Council recasting the three previous directives and amending them with certain innovations or amendments relating to the functioning of regulatory, security and licensing authorities in the field of rail transport are being aligned with the Slovenian acquis. Cooperation shall be coordinated as well as international cooperation with the same authorities of other EU Member States. A key reason for our support for the bill is the definition of the independence of the public railway infrastructure manager, the regulatory and security authority, carriers and the inspection and criminal authority. The essential functions of the operator must be primarily separate from the carrier and, in particular, the allocation of train paths and the identification and collection of supplies. A single European railway area shall be established and all carriers shall be treated in a non-discriminatory manner. Our decision also followed the fact that the amendment provides a legal basis for the establishment of an electronic procedure for the allocation of train paths, the specification for the purpose of use, the introduction of incentives and an efficiency regime for operators and carriers, and the monitoring of the development of the market for rail services and the authorities implementing it. The draft law is coordinated at all levels, in particular with key stakeholders such as the Public Agency for Rail Transport of the Republic of Slovenia as a Security Authority, the Agency for Communications Networks and Services of the Republic of Slovenia as a Regulatory Authority, the Infrastructure Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia as an Inspection and Criminal Authority and the Slovenian Railways – Infrastructure, d.o.o. as an Infrastructure Manager. The bill is also supplemented by amendments to the coalition and by proposals from the Legal and Legislative Service, and is supported by the National Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u180	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mr Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u181	Mr President, representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Rail Transport Act. The bill under consideration is to a large extent aimed at harmonising the Rail Transport Act with the requirements of the European Union directives. It is a rather difficult and extensive adjustment to the law. Therefore, these adjustments and harmonisations were not easy and took quite some time, but they were necessary to avoid paying penalties and ensuring the interoperability of our system. The proposed amendments and additions to the Rail Transport Act are intended to transpose the provisions of Directive 2013/34 establishing a single European rail network into the Slovenian legal order. All essential functions of the infrastructure manager related to both the timetable, the allocation of train routes and the charging of supplies are transferred from the Public Railway Agency to public railway infrastructure managers to the Slovenian Railway Company – Infrastructure. The draft law also regulates the establishment of a competent authority for the implementation of Regulation 1077/2012 on common safety and control methods carried out by national security authorities after the issue of a safety certificate or safety authorisation. These tasks are carried out by the Public Railway Agency and the content of the proposed amendments relates to the definition of the independence of the public infrastructure manager, the definition of the independence of the carriers, the definition of the tasks related to their work of which the carriers decide independently, to the substantive and procedural definition of the contract for the execution of the public economic service, the maintenance of public railway infrastructure and the management of transport, which, following the new provisions of the decision for a period of 5 years. It is also a matter of defining the essential functions of the operator, which must be completely separate from the carrier, these functions include the allocation of train paths and the identification and collection of the charges. It should be noted that with the transposition of Directive 2012/34 we are already late, as it should be transposed into our legal order by this year's 16 June, when the deadline is up. The procedure has not yet been completed due to long-term cross-cutting coordination and subsequent coordination or consultation with the European Commission on the provisions relating to ensuring the independence of the infrastructure manager from carriers. The proposal for a new law is now harmonised and eliminates all existing inconsistencies, and we do not oppose the bill in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u182	The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u183	Honourable President of the National Assembly, distinguished representatives of the Ministry, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for the amendment to the Rail Transport Act is the third from the package of transposition of European directives into the Slovenian legal order. It is a transposition of the Directive establishing a single European railway area which should be transposed by 16 June 2015, which means that we are also late for transposition of the Directive in this case. The Directive constitutes a revision of the three previous directives with certain innovations or amendments relating to the functioning of regulatory, security and licensing authorities in the field of rail transport and their mutual cooperation and international cooperation with the same authorities of other Member States of the European Union. Let me briefly list some major solutions. The independence of the public railway infrastructure manager, which must be exercised by the Supervisory Board, and the independence of carriers, i.e. independent management of assets, budgets and accounts, which is separate from the State, shall be determined also by the tasks in which carriers decide independently. The draft law also defines the substantive and procedural establishment of a contract for the execution of the public economic service, the maintenance of public railway infrastructure and the management of transport, which will be concluded after a new five-year period. The essential functions of the operator shall also be determined, such as the allocation of train paths and the identification and collection of supplies which must be completely separate from the carrier. I will not repeat other solutions because they have been presented by the Secretary of State. Nevertheless, the proposal for a novelty, or precisely as a result of the transposition of the directive, brings quite a few novelties, which made the drafting of the amendment quite difficult. The text of the novel is very extensive and goes beyond the rules on the amendment of existing laws, as we have also pointed out in the Desus Group and proposed a comprehensive amendment to this law. The Minister explained to us that the Ministry would join the reform of the law after the adoption of the fourth railway package of rules dealing with interoperability, security, opening up the market for rail services and the work of the European Railway Agency. Members and Members of the Desus Group support the amendment. The proposal for a novelty is also supported by the Railway Agency and the Slovenian Railways – Infrastructure, d.o.o., which is actually the most affected by the proposal for amendments, as essential functions such as the allocation of train paths, charging of charges and, as already mentioned, a five-year contract for the implementation of the public economic service, maintenance, public railway infrastructure and traffic management are established for the operator. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u184	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matjaž Germany.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u185	Thank you very much, President. Colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Social Democrats, we will support the proposal for amendments and the addition of the Rail Transport Act. It is worth noting that this is a very important amendment to the law, which is dictated by the transposition of the Directive establishing a single European rail network into the Slovenian legal order. The new legislation thus provides for the transfer of essential railway infrastructure management functions related to the timetable, the allocation of train routes and the charging of charges from the Public Railway Agency to the public railway infrastructure manager, namely the Slovenian Railway Company – Infrastructure. It will be considered that its consumption is intended to cover the costs of carrying out the activities of the operator, so that this money should not be channelled elsewhere. The law also specifies the independence of the public railway infrastructure manager from the carrier. In this part, legal solutions have also been specifically examined in the European Commission, in particular to ensure that the Directive is properly implemented and to avoid any new proceedings before the Court due to evidence of violations of the rules on the free movement of services or of the rules on inadmissible distortion of competition on the market. The law also provides that the carrier is independent of the State and has its property, budget and accounting, which means that it is considered a strict European regime with regard to the possible granting of State aid. It is also established that the carrier independently determines its internal organisation, supply control, service marketing and so on. The law also very precisely defines the tasks of the regulatory authority, i.e. the Communications Networks and Services Agency, which defines specific prohibitions of interest between the staff of the Authority and other stakeholders on the railway market. The tasks of the competent authority for the implementation of the Common Safety Method Regulation shall also be specified and carried out by the Public Railway Agency as a national safety authority. The law also introduces some other amendments such as the regulation of the electronic procedure for the allocation of train paths, the identification of incentives and the regime of efficiency for the operator or carrier and the precise arrangements for contracts for the execution of the public economic service, the maintenance of public railway infrastructure and the management of traffic, which follows the new five-year decision. Finally, I would like to point out that, at EU level, the adoption of a new rail legislation package is something like that at the front door. Among other things, the issue of the provision of passenger transport services as an economic public service and the related possible liberalisation in this area is already and will also be raised. Social Democrats support Slovenia's position that our country and similar small countries are allowed the possibility of direct distribution of the implementation of this public service without a compulsory invitation to tender, since all of Slovenia's passenger transport represents a virtually small share of passenger transport throughout the European market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u186	The text is given by the Joint Left Group, for which Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u187	Thank you for your word, chairman. A respected congregation, a respected executive power! We will not support this bill in the United Left. Not because all the substantive changes in the law envisaged by the amendment would be apriorous. We also agree that the management of Slovenian railway infrastructure and the provision of rail services must need to be reorganised to a certain extent. The law is unacceptable to the United Left for two reasons. One is a general orientation, and the other is, of course, a violation of basic nomotechnic guidelines. I'll start with these. The law has similar nomotechnic problems, such as the amendment of the Law on Protection against Ionising Radiation and Nuclear Safety, which we have dealt with a long time ago. At that time, the Legislative and Legal Service was circumscribed by the fact that the amendment amends two thirds of the basic law. This law, which we are considering today, is already as extensive as the basic law. It is also a matter of warning the ladies of the Legislative and Legal Service about the almost literal transposition of the directive into law. This is in the original version, since the Legislative and Legal Service has made comments to as many as 13 of the total 41 articles of the novel, creating a type of inconsistentness and ambiguity. The Novela also amends the Railway Safety Act in one part, making even more confusion. No less problematic is the general direction of the novel, I can sum it up in two words: liberalisation and privatisation. The liberalisation of the railway market is not so evident from the rationale for the amendment of the proposal, but is clearly expressed in the position of the Commission of the State Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development. This is a separation between rail infrastructure management and rail services, with rail infrastructure under the control of the State and the service market being open to all carriers under the same conditions as usual. This may not seem so problematic in most of the National Assembly, but this may lead to a threat to the economic service of passenger rail transport in a small country such as Slovenia, which has already been mentioned in part. The second objective of the novel remains more implicit. It is an opportunity to privatise the transport part of Slovenian railways. The position of the Government representative, presented at the meeting of the Commission already mentioned, in which the possibility of privatising the railway infrastructure was explicitly rejected when the fourth railway package was not foreseen, while the possibility of the carrier being privatised was silent. Newling here in some way explicitly deregulations certain professions, as some trade unions in this sector have warned us. At the same time, I would like to say that since we have some time left, on Friday we will have a debate on the second track, I hope that there will be no general debate, we have had enough general debate in twenty years, and in the light of this amendment as in the light of the introduction of other issues from the 4th package, of course, we need to think about this second track a little bit more than the question or answer to the question of the economic interest of Slovenia, in particular the economic interest of Slovenia, which we will implement through the Slovenian railways, as far as these Slovenian railways are concerned. As I said in the introductions, the United Left of this amendment will not support the marriage. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u188	We have completed the presentation of the views of the Group. We are moving on to a debate on the article and the amendment tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled of 19. Ten. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am putting to the debate Article 21 and the amendment of the SMC, DeSUS and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Danilo Anton Ranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u189	President, thank you for your word. Of course, even the debaters had warned that there had been a lot of changes to the legislation and, of course, who is also making mistakes if I make a little joke, there was a nomotechnic error or a government scruples, so we had to make an amendment, which we also support. This is a substantive minor correction to Article 21 which reads: "For the provision of transport services, the carrier must obtain a licence. The license does not grant access to railway infrastructure." In the explanation for the original amendment, there was an error in the indication of the number of the sentence to be deleted, and therefore, as a result of the substantive amendment, it is necessary to re-write the whole paragraph, which clearly shows that the third sentence was deleted and not the second sentence, as was mistakenly mentioned in the amendment. For these reasons, we too will support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u190	Anybody else want to discuss this? Nobody. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendment will be decided tomorrow, according to the time frame of the National Assembly meeting, 21. Ten. 2015, in the context of the votes This concludes this agenda item. I am also adjourning the 12th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. In view of the fact that the Committee on Defence is still meeting, you will be informed of the start of the extraordinary meeting.
