ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 14th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 57 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Jana Jenko, mag. Bojan Krajnc, Mr Igor Zorčič from 3 p.m. on, Mrs Ksenija Krenjak Kramar, mag. Matthew Tonin, Mr. Jernej Vrtovec, Mrs. Jelka Godec, Dr. Jasna Murgel, mag. Tanja Zink from 3 p.m., Mr Ivan Hršak and Mrs Nada Brinovšek. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government to the 1st item of the agenda and representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. We are moving on to the agenda of the 14th meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday 4 December 2015 by reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals to withdraw the item from the agenda of the meeting. We are moving on to the consideration and decision on the proposal to extend the agenda. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposes that the 14th meeting should be extended to 2A, this is by means of a proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Public Finance Balance in accordance with the urgent procedure. You received a notice on the proposal for enlargement on Thursday 10th. 12. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the Does the representative of the enlargement proposer Mrs Urska Ban, President of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy? No, no, no. Does the representative of the government want to speak as a proposal for a bill? The word is given by Minister Dusan Maramor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u2	Your Honor! The government made an accurate analysis of Slovenia's tax competitiveness and found, above all, the lack of competition in the field of highly skilled incomes with total incomes of about 1.6 times the average wage. The proposal to supplement the Public Finance Balance Act proposes a transitional provisional scheme for a scale for income assessment, which addresses this problem of non-competitiveness. Temporaryly for a period of two fiscal years, for 2016 and 2017, a change in the rate of 50 % is proposed for the benefit of the income scale by raising the threshold between the second and third classes, and the retention of the fourth tax grade as applied under the Public Finance Balance Act for 2015. The proposed novelty of the ZUJF aims to restructure tax burdens between taxpayers for income taxed synthetically at annual level with progressive tax rates, with the aim of creating a more favourable burden structure to increase competitiveness in the context of the established plan and the commitments of public financial consolidation by 2020. The government considers this to be a possible first step in the right direction at the moment, but also predicts further measures to increase the competitiveness of the economy also in the tax burden segment. The decision on the proposal for a Public Finance Balance Act at this meeting of the National Assembly is essential, as the amendment of the law must take effect this year. In addition, the act should be adopted and published in the Official Journal on the basis of an established amendment to the law this year. I therefore propose that the proposal for a law to balance public finances be included in this meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u3	Does the representative of the group of Members and Members of the Luka Mesec want to speak as a proposal for a bill? No, no, no. Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups? No, no, no. Then I conclude by presenting my views on the proposal for enlargement. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the operation of the voting apparatus. We decide on the proposal to extend the agenda. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 58 votes against none. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. In accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, the National Assembly will consider this item tomorrow, Tuesday 15. 12. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We are moving on to a full agenda. I propose to the National Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as received by reference and with an adoption of an extension. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 71 votes against none. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 14th meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving on to one. At the time of the day, this is for questions from the Members of Parliament and the Members of Parliament. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received, within the deadline of business, written submissions from 31 questions sent. The order of business shall be laid down in accordance with Article 244(2), Article 245(2) and Articles 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition and the Member of the ruling coalition's question will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. Each Member or Member shall have 3 minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government, ministers and ministers shall answer the question in no more than five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have 5 minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member within 2 minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of 3 minutes. The Member who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. On this point they apologized for today: Mr Karel Erjavec, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mag. Dejan Židan, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Mrs Andreja Katič, Minister of Defence, from 17:00 on and Mag. Ms Vesna Györkös Žnidar, Minister of the Interior. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first four questions will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar. First, he will be asked the question of the message. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u4	Dearly beloved to all of us, a very nice greeting! A special greeting to the government and its president. The migratory flow, which has begun to pour into Europe, has put Europe and each of the countries at a great challenge. A challenge where there is no room for any naivety, since the decisions to be taken are irreparable and in some way historic. From this point of view, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia missed the historic opportunity to cause irreparable damage to Slovenia when it did not build the fence at the same time as Hungary and declared complete borders for illegal migrants. Then the flow would turn elsewhere, and these problems in Slovenia today should not be dealt with at all. At least not in the same form as now. Now the situation is such that it is caused by a very large amount of material damage. Look, just for example, we have a school in Gorenjska where we need a few hundred thousand euros, a high school in Jesenica is this, you can see it on TV, for repair. There the kids are sitting in their coats, dripping on their heads, that's the problem for this government. 123 million euros for illegal migrants in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia next year, which is not a problem for this government. Of course, there is something very wrong here, the costs are enormous. The costs are already such that this is a major problem for all of Slovenia and are triple. The direct costs of illegal migrants and migration themselves are indirect costs, more money will be required for security, and the third is the economic costs set by economic sectors, such as tourism, are literally clinically dead, and the situation is getting worse. In recent days, we have witnessed a double event, which in some ways reflects a lot of confusion and is not entirely appropriate if I am a diplomatic, European institutions when it comes to dealing with the migration crisis, as well as very different interests. In the first place, it is the flickering of Slovenia on the back, when you see how well it works, and on the other hand, the actions are completely opposite. Italy is sending an army to our border, Austria is starting to build a fence on our northern border. This is a direct non-trust — let us leave the words aside, the non-trust in our actions — to what this government has done with migrants who are obviously not in control and who do not perform the full scheng. That's why I'm asking the question: Is this government aware of the circumstances for Slovenia and what we can expect in the coming weeks and months, especially when the current migratory flow is [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u5	President of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u6	Thank you, Your Honor. Your claims, which you have raised before the question, are, of course, entirely misleading and do not hold. First of all, you're saying why Slovenia didn't make some perfect fence closure. Look, we are now setting these technical barriers and seeing how difficult the local population is facing them, despite the temporary obstacles at our border, which I hope we can remove as soon as possible, so when this danger of uncontrolled migration of migrants in large quantities ends. So it is absolutely not that simple here, because also putting obstacles can be a burden in terms of tourism, economy, relationships, transport and the like. Therefore, the Slovenian Government is extremely considerate in these requirements. We control the migratory flow so that it does not spread across Slovenia, that security problems do not arise, that we are humanitarian and that these refugees and migrants can go towards the countries, the destinations they want to go to. The problem facing Slovenia as a two-million-dollar country is the problem of European and global dimensions. And if neither Germany nor Sweden nor Italy, nor France, nor Greece, nor any country itself, all have very serious problems, we can, in fact, be very pleased with what our national authorities are doing at the border and beyond to control this migratory flow. This migratory flow is a much greater burden for Slovenia than for all the countries it is going through and for those it goes to. The costs are absolutely not what you say they are. Indeed, there is also minor economic damage in certain restricted areas, which is not comparable to how the country manages to maintain the whole system in normal operation. We, too, at this time of the worst influx of refugees, record economic growth. The interest of foreign investors remains. All economic indicators are encouraging, employment is increasing, the country is operating normally. That's why your claims are misleading. There is no such damage and Slovenia is doing its duty as correctly as possible. It is a fact, however, I stress that this is a major migrant flow facing the whole of Europe, including the wider world from Africa, the Middle East to other areas. Once again, let me say that we have managed it successfully so far. We are also preparing to establish these technical barriers to situations that could arise in which we should manage broader migratory flows that would want to spread across Slovenia, which could endanger the property of our people, their homes, weekends, cars, whatever. We are therefore setting up these technical fences, but with extreme feelings and trying to keep in constant contact with the local population, so that it does not harm the neighbourly relations, their daily lives, and in particular not to harm the economy of Slovenia. Mr Grims, I can't imagine what you're saying that Slovenia is just for some serious reason, you're saying that Slovenia should have fenced itself with a fence earlier. But I assure you something, no fence can if the European Union does not find a common approach, to prevent the influx of dozens, thousands of refugees. This control will therefore need to be put primarily at the external borders of Europe, which Slovenia is working towards. As a member of the Schengen, I repeat, it exercises effective border control and guidance so that the great flow of these migrants, these people, can then travel on to Austria, Germany and other countries and destinations. Let me take this opportunity to say again, this fence we're setting up has a temporary purpose, the purpose of which is to direct and better control these potential and current refugee flows. You need to know that more than three thousand to five thousand refugees are still coming to Slovenia every day, so Slovenia is constantly directing the matter effectively through the police, the military, civil protection, volunteers, all other health workers and all those who are trying. And I repeat, there is no greater material and other damage, and it is incorrect at a time when the whole world is facing a corresponding response to this problem, it is humanitarian, it is solidarity and security, it is improper to use such severe charges against anyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u7	Mag. Branko Grimes, you have the floor to request a response.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u8	Dear Dr. Cerar, I don't know, you've obviously been shivering at the shoulders of individual institutions in a dream. But let's look at the facts. What are the costs of migrants, you have estimated yourself in your budget, because you yourself have proposed EUR 123 million to the budget for this purpose, and this has also been voted by your coalition. That's what they say. That's the facts. The fact is, there are problems with individual sectors, which I have been talking about. You can check that out, and you know it. And the third thing is, it's clearly a mistrust of your government, and it's in action. Why? Because the government does not implement the Schengen rules. And it's a run on short lines, and it's very shortsighted. I've been warning you about this for months and months. You yourself have admitted that at 320 000 migrants, illegal migrants you have released through Slovenia, you have collected fingerprints and done all the rest required of your official statements in the last period of about 35,000. Everything else went through without proper procedure. For only half of what has been reported, there is any documentation and so on. We do know that there are still a number of other security issues that open up, but let's get back to today's subject. If our northern neighbours believed in your ability to implement Schengen consistently, they would help build a fence on our southern border, then this would be completely unnecessary. But the fact is, at our southern border, it really is a fence, which is a little small and very problematic in some other respects, to say the least. And that's what happens when things are done in half. Instead of making one concrete fence and taking responsibility for it, this was done in such a way that it could also be the subject of controversy. And that's what you do. In a normal country, there would now be a discussion about setting up a fence on the northern border and sending an army to the western border. In our country, however, we have been discussing the work of a fence on the southern border.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u9	President of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the response.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u10	Thank you very much. It's about the Schengen transcripts first. You're saying the government doesn't carry out orders under the Schengen rules. As far as possible, they are carried out in a exemplary manner, and this is also illustrated by the fact that this is recognised by the whole European Union. As you know, a few days ago, the European Commission issued an explicit warning to Greece, Croatia, Italy, Hungary and Malta to respect the rules governing the registration of refugees. Slovenia has not received this warning since from the beginning to the present we have been recognised as a model country, but in the given circumstances, all the rules in the field of Schengen. Where the number of migrants is too large, matters are clearly changing. But I stress, even in these circumstances, Slovenia carries out its duties as necessary. With regard to budgetary resources, migration must also be foreseen in this context. As you know, for this first period, for this month and by the end of the year, we have provided assistance from the European Commission or we will receive European funds. As you know, we have more than ten countries that have also sent police officers to our borders in solidarity. We are also assisted by engineers from military units in other countries. Apparently, Slovenia has experienced some particular recognition with this, which means that control at our border is in fact additionally Europeanised in the light of Schengen, when these police officers come here. Of course, we are closely following the situation. As I have pointed out many times these days, the level of threat in Slovenia is not increasing. Things are under control. Of course, we are all, both the government and the police, as well as the competent other authorities, fully awake, monitoring what is going on around us and ensuring that we are working in a normal manner. You're talking about some industry costs, don't provide any measurable data. Our ministries are working, studying things. But again, even in this period, when faced with a truly large number of migrations like all the countries around us, from the largest to other countries, it is easy to record economic growth, which is stable, which records an increase in employment, that unemployment is increasing, and that the interest of foreign investors is growing. We have grown on the competitiveness scales, so that absolute indicators clearly show that we have successfully faced this issue so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u11	Mag. Branko Grims, you have the floor to request that the next meeting discuss the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u12	Your Honor! The fact that this government has missed out on a historic opportunity where it could, in good time and adequately protect our southern border and consistently implement Schengen throughout the whole territory of the Republic of Slovenia, actually implement, not so much as best possible, has, of course, pushed Slovenia into a very unenviable position. We are currently the only country in Europe that is somehow becoming surrounded. I think this is a very bad forecast for the time when this migratory flow will turn. And this time is coming very quickly. It was just today that you could read Angela Merkel's statements, which a few weeks ago invited migrants to come to Germany indefinitely, that it was necessary, I quote, "... to drastically limit the number of migrants." What does that mean? I hope everyone in this room is clear. And then all these acts will likely prove to be in a very different light. At that time, it will also show in the right light what was meant by the flow race you went to your government instead of the consistent implementation of the Schengen rules. Then it'll probably come back like a big boomerang. I think that the whole story of the migration crisis in Europe shows that there is very little reliance on big words when someone hits you on the shoulder, because in the end everyone pays their own bills and is responsible for their own actions. This money, which is also in the budget, EUR 213 million for migrants in the following year, has been identified by you as a double component when monitoring the budget – from the work you expect from the European Union, and you cannot guarantee it, and the work, this should be about half of what we will pay for ourselves. By the way, in this case, it's a hundred times as much money as it would take to rebuild that school I was talking about earlier, so we'll all imagine how much money this is. This does not cover all the additional costs and indirect business losses that we should be very serious about. First of all, let us ask what does a changing Europe mean in the light of this behaviour of our neighbours, what does a possible change of Schengen, as we now know it, mean. About all of this and about what this would mean for Slovenian entrepreneurship, for people, for their well-being, and believe me, that nothing good is at all, we should speak frankly in the National Assembly. I therefore propose that this issue be discussed and that the response of the President of the Government be discussed.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u13	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 15 December 2015, in the framework of the votes. Luka Mesec, you have the floor to question the Prime Minister of the Government, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u14	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues, distinguished Prime Minister and other members of the government! Mr. Prime Minister, we know that police officers have been strikers for more than three weeks, as I read on the RTV Slovenia portal, you, after yesterday's coalition meeting, have somehow figured out exactly why this sentence occurred. This sentence has occurred, as you yourself state, because the police have been subject to disproportionate savings in recent years because the funds are so entangled that many police officers work in miserable conditions to work with outdated equipment, that the situation is practically unsustainable even now that police are over-burdened. But that's what we warned you about. You have been reminded of this on several occasions on various parliamentary committees, and we have finally warned you about this in the course of the full adoption of the fiscal rule that you adopted in this Chamber in July. That's when we made it clear to you that in six months you're gonna have a headache. The fiscal rule is a forced vest that the government has worn itself, and the fiscal rule is that it now forces the government to continue or further tighten the austerity policies of the previous governments and that we suddenly have a budget that is most cost-effective after what was done in 2012. This makes the systemic crisis, even the subsystems that depend on public funding – the police, education, health care and so on, further deepen. So in the light of yesterday's meeting, and in this context, I am interested in the following: How much money did you manage to find at the police meeting yesterday? Why did you find the money for the wire right away, but it's not there for the people, and how much did that wire cost? Why, despite the obvious problems with the fiscal framework you have set yourself up, do you give up on the other hand the revenue you could get from the budget? At the beginning of this meeting, the ZUJF, presented by your colleague Dušan Maramor, could bring in an additional 16 million under the title of the fourth income class, which was also the proposal of the United Left, but you decided to redistribute this money between 12% of the best paid in Slovenia. That's why I want to know: Why do you prefer not to spend money that you could thus obtain for any more productive purposes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u15	President of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Your Honor. As you have rightly stated, in recent years and in some past governments, there has also been disproportionate savings in the area of police and, above all, in the area of security and defence. This has led to a state inherited by our government, which is treated with all responsibility. We have been doing this since the beginning of the mandate. So I'd like to give you just a little bit of information here in these short minutes, and I could talk about it for a while. We have only provided new employment and new money to the police through the 2015 budget rebalancing. We have also given over 90 consents to maintenance and renovation contracts, we have agreed to operationally support police border control tasks. We've foreseen 300 new police jobs for an indefinite period of time. After a long time, there were 300 new jobs for an indefinite period of time, of which 100 police officers were expected to receive paid education during the working relationship and for 330 police officers at the border we changed the working relationship from a fixed to an indefinite period of time. In doing so, we have been constantly looking for equipment, some progress has been made over the course of the year, and in particular we have foreseen for equipment and the further modernisation of police work 30 additional millions for 2016 and 30 additional millions for 2017. Of course, even when we are aware of the security situation that is escalating in Europe, however, these funds go directly to the police. That is why I was most surprised when this began to be dealt with in a public way. Let me stress that both police unions have also been involved in government negotiations with the public sector, i.e. with public sector unions, where we have earmarked more than 200 million incentives for progress for all in the public sector. Also from this address, especially for police officers, with one of the unions signing this agreement according to my information. So I really don't understand why the sentence came a few days after the terrorist attack in Paris, when all of Europe was appalled at what happened, and when we have been working very hard all year to keep up with the demands of the police. And also their demands, since some governments have signed something but have done nothing, have now been complemented by new requirements, with some of these requirements already being met, we have actually met them, and this will be repeated by our negotiating group if it is necessary for them, that is, trade unions, representatives of trade unions as well as the public. What am I trying to say? This government has been working very hard for cops all year. Not only in words, when we give them respect and thanks for their self-sacrificing work at the border, but also in future budgets, we have allocated them extra funds for equipment, for their better operation, for models, for their up-to-date operation and when we have already spent so much money, new jobs, new benefits, etc. It's pointing to something. This shows that this government respects this profession, strives for it, and strives for security in Slovenia. Of course, it is not enough, of course it will still be too small, because we need much in this and in other areas, so we will continue to do so. Of course, the negotiating group has been operating since the beginning, from the day before the strike and continues to operate. And yesterday, the negotiating group received very clear starting points from the government, which will be presented tomorrow by the police union, to discuss these issues further. But you must take note of everyone, and we will also take into account in the Government that we cannot now break an agreement with the whole public sector. The country has its own public financial framework, it has to be a good business manager, it has to ensure to everyone in the public sector, from nurses to schoolchildren, from doctors to firefighters, from the military to the police, that they are treated in some equal way, and that this negotiation or negotiation group will lead them in accordance with this public financial framework. We cannot afford to break now the agreement we have been preparing and successfully concluded for months and months with the whole public sector. However, the negotiations will go forward and the negotiators will present the negotiating points directly to the trade unions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u17	Port of the Moon, you have the floor to request a reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u18	Thank you for your word. Mr. Prime Minister, you haven't answered my questions, so I'll repeat them. I have three questions: First time. How much money did you find for the police yesterday? As you can see, the problems are severe, the problems accumulate for years, and you will have to start solving these problems as a government, even now that the police are over-burdened. So, I was wondering how much money you found yesterday for that purpose. Another time. How was it immediately possible to find money for the wire, but not for the people, and how much did that wire cost? And the third time. Why do you give up things like the 16 million in the title of the fourth income class that you could use to solve exactly the kind of problems that you are facing right now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u19	President of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the response.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u20	Thank you very much. You probably know that negotiations do not take place by clarifying Parliament's negotiating proposals and then going to the opposite side. It is absolutely correct and right that the first negotiating proposal by the Government or the negotiating group should be presented to the police trade unions. But when it is presented to them, it will become public, and you will be familiar with it. It'll probably be tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, so how much money we spent on it yesterday, I can't tell you that way. However, I have something to tell you that, as far as we're going to devote it to the police right now, we're going to have to take it from someone else if we're going to conclude like you: either to doctors, or to schoolchildren, or to firefighters, or to civil protection, or maybe to an army or to someone else in the public sector. And you have to be aware of that. Therefore, the government must take into account the whole picture in all understanding and obedience also for the police. Of course, because this hearing, as I said, has been a remarkable expression every month. The government must therefore take care of the functioning of the State by taking into account the public financial framework. You've given someone a lot before, I'd say, an inappropriate comparison. We've got money for the wire, you said, but there's no money for people. That's a very, very inappropriate statement, I'd say. Technical barriers – including wire fences on the border are designed to protect people and their property. Remember how it crossed the Slovenian border from Croatia thousands and thousands of people when people were afraid there and we were all asked to build a fence to protect them. This wire has no purpose in itself, it aims to direct the migratory flows, which are still large, to certain places where they can be monitored, so that it does not come to our people and their assets, their normal rhythm of life. However, as regards tax legislation, I propose that the Minister of Finance speak about this. I would say, however, that precisely with this change, which was placed on the agenda today before the beginning of this point, we have foreseen a change in the tax system itself, the income system, which is for the benefit of a certain part of people, the medium layer, which will be burdened by certain burdens. We are also looking for solutions for the economy in particular, how to stimulate the development of the economy and other spheres in society in other ways. We continue to do so, and once we have the solutions, we will also present them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u21	Luka Mesec, you have the floor to request that the next meeting discuss the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, again. The Prime Minister did not answer the questions or did not reply satisfactorily. I really want to know, or we want to know, how much the wire cost. So on this issue, I think we need to talk in the National Assembly. On the other hand, I think we also need a broader debate. What it looks like to take someone to another lady, we've told you this since we discussed the fiscal rule. The fiscal rule is that hard-core jacket that forces the government or someone to think that if you want to give them to someone, you have to take them somewhere. If we had softer fiscal frameworks, and this was six months ago still possible, we just shouldn't have to do that. You'll have to take responsibility here. However, you still have room for manoeuvre in tax legislation, where it is not about taking one segment of the undernourished public sector, such as education or health care, in order to give it to the police, but it is simply a redistribution which is not only fiscal and economical but even productive in Slovenia. As our inequality increases, money can be found in the wealth, in capital, in those parts of the population that are comparatively less taxed with standards that are, say, applicable in Europe. This is about redistribution not horizontally, it's from one segment to another, but vertically, from the wealthier to those who don't have money, and they're probably going to spend that money more productively. This is a substantive question for you, your financial ministry, and I also propose that the debate be held. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u23	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 15 December 2015, in the framework of the votes. Mr. Joseph Horvat, you have the floor to question the Prime Minister of the Government, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u24	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr. President of the Slovenian Government! Slovenian citizens and the Slovenian economy, in particular our exporters, have been very upset and still upset by the idea of the mini scheng and the exclusion of Slovenia from the Schengen area. Today, on Monday, 21 December, it will be eight years since Slovenia became a Member State of the Schengen area. Our citizens accepted this with great approval, as border controls were lifted at the borders with Austria, Italy and Hungary, and Slovenia strengthened border control with Croatia as this border became the Schengen external border. The latter means that, in accordance with the Schengen Borders Act, Slovenia, on behalf of the Member States of the Schengen Area, exercises external border control at the border with Croatia. The migrant crisis has shown that countries, including, unfortunately, Slovenia, are not capable of fully implementing the Schengen Code. So Schengen has fallen and we do not know who is coming to our European yard. This has led to a significant increase in safety risks. The non-implementation of the Schengen Borders Code raised the issue of the safety of European citizens. Therefore, some feel logical ideas about the establishment of a mini-schengna, where Slovenia is not on the list of elite countries in the core of Europe. "The peripheral countries of the European Union must share the burden of the migration crisis or remain outside the Schengen core," said Eurogroup head Jeroena Dijsselbloem in an interview with the Belgian newspaper L'Echo, adding that the migration crisis could trigger a mini-schengen. Dear Mr. President of the Government, I ask you: What will your government and you personally do, for example, on the nearest European Council this Thursday and Friday, that Slovenia will still remain in the Schengen area and in some way silence the ideas about the mini-scheng that upset our citizens and our economy? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u25	President of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u26	Thank you very much for the question, honourable Member. The idea of a mini-scheng is hard to keep quiet because it's not really there. It is encouraged by you and some media that you constantly present in public as something that is supposed to exist. I emphasize and repeat, the mini-scheng is gone and will not be. It is true, however, that, for internal political reasons, some Dutch politicians have developed the idea of a mini-schengen and it occurred just at the time of the previous European Council, i.e. the last one I attended. Before I attended it, I was placed as an option, which, of course, I responded that was unacceptable. Then I checked this specifically with the Presidents of the Governments – the Netherlands and also some others who told me that this was not something that they had not discussed at all, and that is why this idea is a complete fiction or some idea of some individuals who were then used by the media and others for internal political purposes in the Netherlands. Let me repeat that even later in the days and weeks it turned out that there is no such idea. It is true, however, that there has been a meeting of some European Union countries, in particular seven countries, which are the main destination for refugee flows, i.e. migrants, and this has aroused some suspicion, some suspicion that this may be the subject of discussions about the so-called mini-schenga, which has proved to be completely unrealistic. These countries have come together because they are all burdened with the same problem. These are the countries, the destinations where these migrants want to go. These countries therefore have a specific problem, especially because some other countries, such as Turkey, also express further demands for the relocation of a large number, hundreds, thousands of people to Europe, and this means, above all, those countries. That is why these countries met and discussed how to address this challenge or even say something else. So there was no formal discussion, nothing that would jeopardize the normal progress of the work of the European Council and the European Union. At least for something like a mini-scheng. Let me reiterate that Slovenia is doing its Schengen obligations in a given situation, which are extreme, optimally, which is recognised by the European Union and by the European Commission in particular. Let me reiterate that the European Commission called on Greece, Croatia, Italy, Hungary and Malta days ago to comply with the rules governing the registration of refugees. This warning was therefore not addressed to Slovenia, which is clear evidence that Slovenia respects and implements its non-small Schengen obligation optimally, but within the context of the migratory flows that exist. Nor has there ever been any debate about Slovenia being excluded from the Schengen area, of course there is fear that such reflection could arise, for example, with regard to Greece, which in fact does not meet its Schengen obligations, which is a country that should protect the external borders of the European Union, to which we are particularly focused as a key solution in managing migratory flows. Slovenia remains in Schengen, is in Schengen, will be in Schengen and fulfil its duties. We are also in constant communication with all the countries of the European Union, including Austria, Germany and others, so that we also see here that neither of these countries is expelling us or not wanting to exclude us. On the contrary, we are working with them to regulate the controls of these migrations. Of course, this several - mile - long fence at the Austrian crossing with Slovenia has another purpose. Mr Grimes used to talk about this fence. The fact is that it is a fence which has only a guiding purpose at the entry point from Slovenia to Austria. It is relatively short and is set up because Slovenia also has a refugee accommodation centre there, where there may also be a large number of refugees, and with this kind of agreement with us Austrians allow not uncontrolledly these refugees to decide for themselves to cross the border. This is being done in agreement and for the time being, I can ensure that there are no other arrangements or threats. However, if there is any tendency that the countries of the north are beginning to reduce or even significantly reduce migrant flows, we will respond accordingly ourselves, and we will by no means allow any state to decide to close borders, because this was contrary to the European order, European and Schengen rules.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u27	Mr. Joseph Horvath, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Now you've also started talking about the border between Slovenia and Austria, which was set by Austria, and I'm curious: Is this border established in accordance with the Schengen Borders Code, more precisely in accordance with Article 24? I studied him, and I can't find any answers here. Look, you've convinced me and probably all of us, but you have to convince yourself about the idea of a mini-schenga also of visible policies that talk about it and spread this idea. I can't reach Mr. Dijsselbloem, and you can call him fast. The fact is that at its closed meeting, the Dutch Government also called on Belgium, Luxembourg, Germany and Austria to establish a mini-Schengen area in this core of Europe. Mr Disselbloem also says in the above-mentioned interview, quote: "Number of countries are paying a larger bill for the migration crisis because they are the host of immigrants. These are Sweden, Germany, Austria, Belgium and the Netherlands." Now I feel like Mr. Dysselbloem doesn't know what kind of effort we're making. He does not know the efforts of our volunteers, our officers and our members of the Slovenian Army. In a way, it is a knife to the heart of all of us who have major problems managing the migratory wave. And you are the one, Mr Prime Minister, and your fellow ministers, to explain to the gentlemen in Europe what this is really about. I didn't make it up, like you said, that we're spreading this idea, we're just reading agency news, we're reading called newspapers, we're reading the Dutch Telegraph, and we're reading it all there so that the idea of mini scheng exists. And it still annoys our citizens not to talk about those 18,000 daily and weekly migrants who are going to Austria to serve bread.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u29	President of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the response.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Let me reiterate that the idea of a mini-scheng may exist in the ideas of some individual politicians in the Netherlands. I talked about this directly with the Prime Minister of the Netherlands as soon as this idea somehow got on the air as a possibility, but he personally assured me that I should not take this seriously in any way, that there was nothing on it and that such an idea would not attempt to institutionalise. Nor did a group of seven countries, which met with regard to the problem of migrants, meet with a view to establishing a mini-schengna or something like that, but with a view to what I explained earlier. The European Commission knows our efforts. In Slovenia, according to that summit that we referred to our initiative, as in all other Central European countries, as well as the Balkans, a contact point has been established, and we regularly inform the European Union on a weekly basis through this channel, what is the situation with us, what we are doing at the border, how we are in agreement with Croatia, Austria and how we are on this Balkan and Central European path. It is precisely because it informs the European Union that Slovenia is reaching full understanding of its policy. With regard to Austria, however, let me point out that if Austria wanted to close the border or block it in this way with a fence across the whole length to close it in this way, this would be contrary to the legal order of the Schengen, to which we would have responded very strongly. But there's no need for that. As I mentioned, it is only a few kilometres of a steering fence, which is also used at border crossings. It is true, however, that within the Schengen there can also be temporary border control, and we have already established it at the border with Hungary, so the Austrians, as well as the Italians, are, of course, showing that Slovenia is doing the right thing when it puts obstacles also on the Schengen border, because if this refugee flow is too large, we will all have to act accordingly together. Slovenia must prepare itself for this, and this is how we agree with Austria. I would stress, however, that we will not allow ourselves to be treated in any way outside the Schengen area and remain in the Schengen area of Slovenia. And again, the idea of a mini-scheng is made up, in fact, the product of thinking about some individuals. It has never experienced any more serious debates, not in debates within the Member States of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u31	Mr. Joseph Horvath, you have the floor to request that the next meeting discuss the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. That's right. I'm taking advantage of this business opportunity. Mr President of the Government, I, by my question to you, in fact, wanted to further encourage you, in the already mentioned European Council, which will be this Thursday and Friday, to reach a common statement that there is no idea of a mini-schenga that this idea should be suppressed in the Cali. This is too much excitement for our Slovenian citizens. Yeah, who are we? Can anyone with an interview play anything with our destiny? You know that from Pomurje, from Slovenian mountains, from Koroška daily or weekly, if you like, about 18,000 people go to Austria to work. Do you know what it means to go through border control every day? This means that the Schengen border would move to the Slovenian-Austrian border. And this was in fact a key intention to once in the European institutions, and here is certainly the most important European Council to agree, however, that there will be no reduction of the Schengen area. Because, as Junker, who heard this idea, said that if there was a reduction of the Schengen, if the Schengen fell, then it would also be logical for the euro to fall. And then what? Then this is practically the end of the European Union. Here is my great fear, not the exchange of fear, as one of your vice-presidents declares, is only my fear, which I am articulating here on behalf of citizens and citizens of this country, that we will lose what we have actually acquired all this time during the history of the European Union or at this time, which Slovenia is a member of the European Union. So I expect him to be at this meeting, because I hope that this procedural proposal will receive support, that we will have a report on the European Council meeting on 17 and 18 December at that time, and that the Government will be able to tell us what is actually happening with the Schengen area now. These are key questions for the development of Slovenian society, for the development of the Slovenian economy. We need to discuss this, and Slovenia needs to be informed objectively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u33	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 15 December 2015, in the framework of the votes. Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. When the entire government is gathered and you have practically given us a list of unanswered questions, written questions, after the meeting, I would like to invite you to invite ministers to answer their questions in due time. In accordance with Rule 249 of the Rules of Procedure, it is necessary to respond within 30 days. Here we have a list of questions, some not answered for two months or more, the deadline expired two months or more. There are also three questions from the Minister of Justice which have expired on 24 October and 16 October. 11. However, corruption is also linked to certain suspicions. Given that justice is a special area to ensure respect for the rule of law, the implementation of the rule of law is completely irresponsible. Among the unanswered questions is one question addressed to the Government and the deadline has expired. Some other ministers have this, too. That is why I propose, Mr President, that you are consistent in inviting ministers to answer their questions in writing, to keep them informed in writing, and to ensure that we have the answers to these questions in time. If there's no answer, you can't even ask a supplementary question. The cases then remain unanswered and are also important for the implementation of certain other activities of Members of the National Assembly. I therefore call on you to call on the President of the Government and the ministers to respect their obligations to the National Assembly and to Members who ask Members questions in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and not to allow themselves to be answered or not to answer, just as they seem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u35	I can only reply to this procedural proposal to follow the Rules of Procedure, which means that I will check the entire list and call on the individual ministers or the government to respect this Rules of Procedure at the point of reply to the question. Now Mrs Andreja Potočnik has the floor to ask the President of the Government, Dr Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr. President of the Government! The Slovenian economy is very integrated into global economic flows. Thus, the average share of the exchange of goods and services abroad exceeds three quarters of the gross domestic product. The death forecast of gross domestic product growth in autumn predicts a growth of 2.7% in 2015 and 2.3% in 2016. Exports and private consumption are key factors for further economic recovery. In the last year, several measures have been taken to increase the competitiveness of the Slovenian business environment, which is also becoming more favourable to foreign direct investment. In recent weeks, you have made several visits abroad, one also with a strong economic delegation. The fact that visits abroad are not yet on short lines is absolutely true. Each contact certainly contributes to the country's visibility abroad and also to the conclusion of concrete transactions. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! I want to know: What was the purpose of your visits in recent weeks, and how do you evaluate them? I thank you in advance for your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u37	President of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u38	Your Honor, thank you for asking. It's two visits. A visit to China and the United States. I visited China in the so-called "widest format" of sixteen plus one. It is about Slovenia participating in a group of sixteen countries which, together with China, opens up a number of economic and economic themes. My visit to China was important to maintain this format of communication between Central European and Eastern European countries with China. It is some of the members of the European Union, as well as some others, with this visit being held at the highest level. We have all been the highest representatives of countries, heads of government or countries, which is very important, because Slovenia cannot open its doors to the economy, especially in China, if it does not do so in contact with the highest policies in China. In China, it is customary that the government, or the highest leadership of the country, which wishes to cooperate economically with companies, must have direct contact with their authorities, with their Prime Minister, with the government, even with the President of the country, so that I can open the way for our companies. That was why this visit was so important that we went there in this way. At the same time, in this format, sixteen plus one signed the first written agreement between the countries where Slovenia took on the very important role of coordinator for forestry. Thus we will host all these sixteen countries in the coming year, with our worth plus China, where we will coordinate forestry activities. We have presented a number of opportunities for cooperation with our companies, as well as in other areas, and here we have continued some of the talks that we had before a good half year or a bad year with the top representatives of China in this format in Belgrade. Of course, with this environment, Asia, especially China, has been preparing things for a long time. To come to the conclusion of a treaty, there must be a lot of patience, a lot of negotiation, a lot of persuasion, but here we have already signed the first agreements, such as on exports of milk or milk products to China, which is very important for Slovenia at this point. In addition, we are preparing some other agreements. Above all, we have drawn attention to the potential for tourism. China also wants to promote tourism, says it is sending as many of its people to Slovenia for tourist visits. We have pointed out our outstanding service capacities. Very concretely, I cannot present here, but also very concretely where our companies can operate in service in China. I also visited our entrepreneurs in China, their association, individually, I spoke with them in particular, exchanged experiences, saw how we can encourage further cooperation with China in this area. And last time I visited our exiles, I also had a few other visits to the university and so on. Above all, with regard to the economy, let me reiterate that we have taken a major step forward in this agreement with China on economic cooperation. Let me also say that we continue to cooperate in this format, which is very compatible with the European Union's policy, so that Slovenia is going in the right direction. In the United States, we went in a similar way, but also through economic reoccupation, with a strong economic delegation to the best global companies, corporations in the field of information and communication technology. We had a large meeting together first where we presented Slovenia's investment capabilities. Then it was precisely that we went to the government's top representatives for this visit, opened up to us and representatives of the economy to meet with the highest representatives of IBM, Microsoft, Cisca, Oracle and so on, EMC, namely these largest corporations. We have concluded some very important agreements on further cooperation, where our government, together with our economic operators, as well as research institutes, such as Joseph Štefan, who was also represented there and our university, will go to some joint projects where we will use our existing forms of cooperation, our home knowledge and their additional knowledge to develop these technologies in the field of health, public administration, treatment of old people, smart cities, short-term technologies in the economy and everywhere else. Here we have opened the door to our economy so that it can connect directly with these companies, as well as our government, which will be able to establish a more effective upgrade to existing cooperation at the level of the whole system.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u39	I thank the Prime Minister for his answers. In accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we are moving on to the questions raised at the 13th meeting of the National Assembly. Minister of Health Marija Milojka Kolar Celarc will answer two questions. First of all, she will answer Mrs Jelka Godec's question regarding the Emergency Medical Regulation.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u40	Thank you for asking. Nicely greeted! I thank Member Godchev for the question related to the Emergency Medical Regulation. As you know, the proposal for Regulation 22 April 2015 was submitted to a one-month public debate. After completion [[…]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u41	Order!
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u42	The Ministry has examined all the proposals and comments received and has taken them into account mutatis mutandis when drawing up the final text of the Emergency Medical Service Regulation. [[…]] During the public debate, the Ministry received proposals concerning the way in which continuous healthcare is carried out as defined in this Regulation. After a thorough examination of all the proposals, it was decided not to interfere with the regulation on emergency medical care with the organisation of uninterrupted healthcare. The Ministry will review and also draw up a new regulation for the area of uninterrupted healthcare to determine whether and what changes are necessary after emergency medical care has been implemented in the Slovenian area. Until further notice at existing locations, the outpatient clinics will operate as before. That is to say, we have accepted the comments from the debate and maintained the duty stations. Exceptions will only be to the health clinics on duty, which are located locally or locally close to the emergency centres, as these will have to move from the nearest health centre within two months of the start of operation of the emergency centre. Furthermore, the Ministry also received proposals by defining acceptable access time. The acceptable access time is defined in the Regulation as an indicator of quality, which we urgently need. For reasons of clarity, the definition of available time in the adopted Regulation is different, i.e. the average time of the emergency medical emergency mobile unit, which may not exceed 15 minutes, with the export time not exceeding one minute of activation of the NMP mobile unit by the health dispatcher. With regard to the status and role of the first intermediaries, we have also taken into account the comments made in the public debate in such a way that the Regulation includes only those first intermediaries already included in the system and used for the so-called silent activation. They also made comments to the public health institutions and we have taken many of their comments into account. In addition, we have taken into account the decision to establish satellite emergency centres in particular in order to establish a single dispatch service that will measure the actual required response times and the number of emergency interventions. Only after such a transparent, actually measured time will we make a network of necessary satellite emergency centres. However, it will be possible to apply for a pilot project on the basis of the application of the operators themselves, and then at the Ministry of Health, we will determine whether the establishment of a satellite emergency centre pilot project is justified or not. And if it is, we will also establish this pilot project or SUC. However, it is necessary to establish a longer period of SSCs. With regard to the briefing of the Health Committee, I would like to explain that the Ministry of State of the Republic of Slovenia is in accordance with its decision 12. 11. the communication of all explanations relating to the Regulation, as well as all explanations on the comments in question, in the public hearing and how they were incorporated into the Regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u43	Ms. Marija Milojka Kolar Celarc, Minister of Health, will now answer the question of the lack of anesthesiologists at the Maribor University Clinical Centre. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. Thank you for asking, too. And if you'll excuse me, I'll start at the end, what's the situation today, how these problems are solved. Let me say that tomorrow is already the second meeting on this topic at the Emergency Centre in UKC Maribor together with the Ministry of Health, the Medical Chamber of Slovenia, extended professional colleges of Slovenia. Let me say that past rapid activities have produced fruit in the sense that there has been a certain reorganisation in UKC Maribor. In addition, according to my information, it has been possible to obtain contracts with five external anesthesiologists to date. I must say that as soon as I received the notification of the lack of anesthesiologists in Maribor, I sent a special letter to all the directors of all hospitals in Slovenia and to all their boards of institutions about possible assistance, of course if this is not at the expense of a smaller amount of work in the maternity hospital, so that everyone would jump to the aid of UKC Maribor. Tomorrow we will check whether this is really the case, if they have managed to obtain the participation of fifteen external anesthesiologists in order to normalise their work at UKC Maribor. However, we are aware that this is a short-term measure. Let me say that unfortunately, in the past, the Medical Chamber of Slovenia, which has the power to call specialisations, has apparently called for too few places of invitation to tender for anesthesiologists, that there is now such a critical shortage, despite the fact that one anesthesiologist has died, the other has retired and the other two have gone to work in Austria that this number has suddenly dropped. However, there have been many meetings, interviews before, and in the long run these matters will also have to be resolved systematically in a different way. One way is also, if necessary, we will now use it to import anesthesiologists from other countries that are not members of the European Community. We'll see about that after tomorrow's coordination. But this is an option that then exists in the long run. Most importantly, in accordance with the resolution, we will also make ten-year human resources plans for the needs of healthcare professionals of all categories and will also adapt the call for specialisations.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u45	Dr. Franz Duck, you have the floor to request a supplement to your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u46	Thank you for the report, if I may say so, Madam Secretary of State. I'm afraid I'm not satisfied with the answer. And I would be very pleased despite the opposition fact that if I said: Bravo, great, some urgent problem is solved. Madam Secretary has openly confessed. We'll check it out tomorrow. It's a matter they're dealing with, we're gonna be, we're gonna be busy, we've been on our side for a while now, and there's gonna be a review tomorrow. I don't like and I really don't want the media to run politics, which has been happening too much lately. Something comes into the media, then it's creaked up, as you say, and then it's all we're dealing with. But this, after all, also shows that a whole range of sectors do not achieve some minimum robustness. You know, when I talk about Maribor or read in the media, when an anesthesiologist talks about the fact that young people in specialization, with all due respect for them, are calling out, "what should I do, now I'm ahead of the fact that for the first time in my life I'm with an emergency C-section." These are not, I'll say, such innocent things and somehow I would expect you to take a more urgent action. Now, I'm going to say, this answer for me, even if you weren't bound to UKC Maribor, is kind of a non-response. We know why the problems, what happened, how long did they have the beard, but somehow from the answer, the clues, you know, we're going to analyze some logarithm, why it happened, and we're going to forget a little bit about what we're going to do most urgently. This is to ensure an adequate number of anesthesiologists and to relieve overloaded anesthesiologists who still persist in the UKC Maribor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u47	Minister of Health, Mrs Marija Milojka Kolar Celarc, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u48	Thank you. I said I started from the back up, but I didn't start. This information about the lack of anesthesiologists in Maribor came to me in early November. I didn't react right away. This isn't the first meeting. There were at least three meetings, because otherwise there would have been no agreement between these additional 15 who would now come to Maribor for help. I can tell you all of history after days of what was done since the first information in November. Of course, we immediately called for short-term action and a report on what was done in this regard. And we checked. Mr. Pivc replied on November 18th. Then there was the meeting at the Medical Chamber 26. 11. says one week from this first letter, where all actors, from the extended professional college, the Medical Chamber of Slovenia, to the Ministry of Health, were looking for solutions to UKC Maribor. They adopted seven conclusions and measures, which were implemented immediately. And tomorrow, we'll actually check to see if that 15 is enough. If there is not enough, I will immediately go into the measure of importing anesthesiologists from abroad, because I am aware that this is a pressing problem and that it will have to be solved. In the long run, as I have already said, these matters will need to be regulated systematically. Among other things, we have called for an additional number of anesthesiologists, regardless of how many cities the Slovenian Medical Chamber, which has the authority to do so, because we know that they are missing. Since the beginning of November, when I found out, there have been many meetings, activities, because otherwise we would not have had the opportunity to come temporarily to the aid of other anesthesiologists. However, I am aware that this is a short-term solution, in force, and that it will have to be arranged in a long-term and systematic manner that such things will not come.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u49	We are moving on to questions from Members of Parliament and Members in the first round. Mag. Ange Logar, you have the floor to ask the Minister of Finance, Dr Dushan Marble.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u50	Thank you, Madam President. Slovenia faced a state recapitalisation of Slovenian banks. Slovenia was one of the countries that reached out to this instrument on the consent of the European Commission and carried out, following the testimony of those responsible in the manner and model proposed by the European Commission. There is a legal dispute about this today, and in this respect we cannot comment on who is right, either those who challenge it or representatives of the relevant institutions. The fact is, in order to avoid doubts, the European Commission has drawn up specific legislation regulating exceptional measures to ensure the stability of the financial system. In this respect, given that Slovenia is Slovenia, I think that the only country that has in the strongest way authorised holders of stock and bond securities, the other countries have used so-called haircuts, and with us you have just cleared the holders of subordinated bonds, I ask the Minister of Finance: Has Slovenia already fully transposed a directive of the European Commission relating to emergency measures to ensure the stability of the financial system? In this respect, has Slovenia received any communication, a reminder or any letter from the European Commission concerning the introduction of this Directive into the domestic legal system? In particular, I stress Article 85 of this Directive, which directly regulates the legal certainty of those affected by the measure for the stability of the financial system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u51	Minister of Finance Dr. Dusan Maramor, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u52	Thank you very much, honourable Member, Mr Mag. Ange Logar. Slovenia has already transposed into the national legal order an important part of the EU directives relating to the banking union which you have explained. However, it has not yet definitively transposed all the directives. The completion of legislation aimed at finalising the requirements of the Banking Union is currently a priority of the Ministry's work in the area of the financial system. The legal acts, which form the basis of the banking union and the financial sector's arrangements in the European Union, constitute the so-called single rule. This includes rules on capital requirements for banks, investor protection and the prevention and management of bank failure. In specific terms, these are the following three directives: the Capital Requirements Directive, the Deposit Guarantee Schemes Directive and the Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive. The first of those directives is fully transposed into Slovenian banking legislation by the adoption of the new Banking Act in the spring of this year. However, for the other two Directives, which are closely intertwined after the content, the final transposition was provided for by a specific law that would fully regulate the area of bank resolution governed by the Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive and would also include a new regime of the deposit guarantee system and procedures for the regular winding-up of the bank — bankruptcy, forced liquidation. Due to the scope of the regulation and its substantive complexity, the planned procedures for the definitive transposition of the two Directives were unexpectedly withdrawn. Nevertheless, Slovenia has already established all the key elements which are important for the start of the full operation of the Banking Union with effect from 1 January next year. It establishes a national bank resolution authority, transposes the provisions of the Directives relating to the preparation and early intervention and establishes a scheme to finance bank resolution. In view of the non-notification of the rules, it is said that there was no complete transposition which would definitively transpose the provisions of the directives relating to the banking union, Slovenia received two formal reminders. It received the first one at the end of January this year in relation to the transposition of the Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive, and the second is related to the transposition of the Guarantee Schemes Directive relating to the transfer for which the European Commission is a Member State on 10 December 2015, which is said to have issued a reasoned opinion a few days ago. Slovenia now has two months to respond to this opinion and to act in accordance with the call of the European Commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u53	Mag. Ange Logar, you have the floor to request a complete response.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u54	Thank you. If I have correctly understood the Minister of Finance, the so-called Article 85 of the Directive on exceptional measures to ensure the stability of the banking system has not yet been transposed into Slovenian legislation. But it's one of the key mechanisms that's ultimately good for us, I don't know, our order and the banking system. In fact, Article 85 clearly provides that Member States must lay down in national law the right to appeal against the decision to take a crisis prevention measure; therefore, those who have been released must have an address to which they can complain. Furthermore, in the third paragraph of this Article, Member States should ensure that the proceedings are expedited and that national courts use complex economic assessments of the facts as a basis for their assessment. Look, 13. 12. In 2013, we dismissed shareholders as well as bondholders. Today we're 14. 12. This Decision shall enter into force on the Even if we do not take another one, the apparent Slovenian judiciary does not act in accordance with this provision of this Directive. I find it difficult to believe that it is in the interest of the Ministry of Finance not to rush forward with the transposition of this Article 85 in the directive. So let me ask you another question: When is the Ministry of Finance's commitment to fully transpose this directive into the Slovenian legal order and thus ensure that all holders of securities are provided with adequate legal certainty? Indeed, this legal certainty provided by the directive does not in any way interfere with the government's process, because it does not hold back the decision on emergency measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u55	Minister of Finance Dr. Dusan Maramor, you have the floor to complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u56	Thank you very much. You have rightly concluded that it is in the interests of the Ministry of Finance to transfer this as soon as possible. We had a special meeting and agreed that, irrespective of the original plan, the special law would fully regulate the area of bank resolution, as regulated by the Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive, and would also include a new regime of the deposit guarantee system and procedures for the regular termination of the bank – you spoke of it as bankruptcy, forcible liquidation – that matter would now be regulated in a separate law and not in the framework of the Bank Resolution Act. This will accelerate the implementation of the Deposit Guarantee Schemes Directive in a timely manner. We anticipate that we will prepare this now by the new year and that in the first quarter of next year this will be fully carried over. I would like to stress here that 2015, according to the resources we have at the Ministry, has been extremely difficult with regard to the financial system. We have adopted a new Banking Act, a new Insurance Act, a new Investment Funds Act, a new Intangible Securities Act, and we have yet to repair this ZUKSB, so that the work on these comprehensive laws has actually been extremely difficult, so we have arranged the entire financial system. I count that this is now a priority, all these laws are over, and we must do it as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u57	Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec, you have the floor to ask the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anji Kopač Dark.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u58	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister! This March, the National Assembly adopted the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, which allows all couples in Slovenia to enter into a marriage regardless of their sexual orientation. Since opponents of equality and the provision of equal rights to all citizens of Slovenia have submitted a request for a referendum, we will, of course, decide on 20 December whether the same rights should also be guaranteed to same-sex couples. The new law contains only four articles, and the substance is the amendment of the sentence "the marriage relationship is governed by the law by the living community of husband and wife" in the phrase "the marriage union is governed by the law of the living community of two persons". Nevertheless, opponents of equality base their objections on claims that the law will bring about radical changes. These claims include, for example, sex termination, paternity termination, maternity, changes in curricula, compulsory provision of free artificial fertilisation, and even go so far as to claim that same-sex couples will have the advantage of adoption. As a competent minister, I therefore ask you for some clarifications: What changes does the Law on Marriage and Family Relations actually bring? What is the adoption process in Slovenia? Who decides on these procedures? What conditions does a couple have to meet? How long has the procedure been going on? How much time on average does it take from filing an application to actual adoption? Since, in addition to these claims by opponents of equality, there has been several instances of the inadequacy of the Slovenian system of adoption by old parents, I would like to ask you for an answer in this regard. So: Why can’t old parents adopt their grandchildren? Is there even a country where we would allow such an option? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u59	Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anja Kopač Dark, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Thank you for the question, Mr. Vatovec. We have provided on the website of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities in this campaign all the explanations concerning the amendments made by the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, but unfortunately for this discussion, which is very similar to the discussion at the referendum on the Family Code, where the definition of marriage has been different, but I regret that the fears that appear in this referendum campaign are identical to the fears that have spread under the family code. If we go to the facts. As you well said, it is only a matter of changing the definition of marriage, which, by amending or amending the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, brings respect to article 14 of the Constitution of Slovenia, which states that discrimination is not permissible on the basis of personal circumstances, of course sexual orientation. With this change, we will only allow for the marriage of two persons whose sexual orientation is such that they love the same sex and not the other. As far as adoption is concerned, it must be made very clear that no one, both sexual and diversified, has the right to adopt a child. Adoption of a child is primarily a measure of the country by which we want to ensure the best opportunity for the development of a child and therefore it is always sought for the adoptive parent who benefits the child most. The process itself is two-step. First, the candidates for adoption are checked and, in accordance with our legislation, can only adopt spouses together; of course, there can be a different definition of unilateral adoption, where we already have, as has been said several times, already unilateral adoptions by the same-sex partners. But the fact is, marriages can only be adopted together. It's not about old parents that we can adopt. Why? Because by allowing adoption by old parents, the relationship between relatives is essentially collapsing. The aunt and uncle become brothers and sisters, so most countries do not see it coming, but the institutes — always looking for possible solutions for the child if he loses his parents, for example, within a wider family. This usually goes through custody or foster care. Most of these are in the system, and we have the most cases where old parents take care of this child or an aunt or an uncle. This, of course, preserves this attachment, but at the same time this relationship between them does not break. There are some facts to be said. In Slovenia we have between 10 and 15 adoptions per year. However, we have about 570 couples waiting for adoption in the register of possible adoptive parents. There's no waiting list, like sometimes we hear that if someone gets in line, then sooner or later they'll come. In adoptions there is no waiting list as such, always assessing what is in the best interest of the child. We also have bilateral agreements with some countries. We have recently concluded an agreement with the Czech Republic and Bulgaria. Unfortunately, we also note that adoptors who have the right to refuse have the right to decide which child they want to adopt, but there are also cases where we have a demand for about 15 children among our adoptors who do not want to adopt these children, which is, of course, the legitimate right of those who decide to adopt. I would like to say once again: adoption is no one's right; it is only the right of the child to provide him with a family environment that is best suited and best for his future life. And there's no way we can talk about the right of anyone to adopt. However, perhaps there are some interesting things that you mentioned at the outset.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u61	Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec, you have the floor to request an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u62	Thank you. In the introduction to the question, I have already mentioned those few points. The ones I put directly were the ones that were most direct and probably important to the point. But there is still a whole bunch of other contradictions that are coming. Among these are the ways in which the change of law will change the whole set of other laws and in some ways also disrupt the order of things as we know it in the current legislation. Above all, the most worrying are the claims that talk about the introduction of various theories, if I say so or so they are called opponents, to primary schools, kindergartens. This is primarily their main thesis on the elimination of sex. In short, we have heard and recently more often, that we will no longer be men and women, that there will be no more separation anywhere in public, and that this will also bring problems directly to the administrative units where marriages are concluded, and so on. In short, I'd like to ask the Minister if he can perhaps go further into this area. In short: Will the new law actually bring about a change, not just the definition of marriage, as clearly stated in the law? Will this also affect learning plans, in some ways also the freedom of parents to raise their children and generally to live in society as such? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u63	Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs, equal opportunities for Dr. Anja Kopač Mrak, you have the floor to complement the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. There is no law on marriage, except adoption, nothing you mentioned. The Law on the Treatment of Infertility and Infertility Procedures with Biomedical Aid, for which the Ministry of Health is responsible, makes it very clear that the right to insemination with biomedical assistance is primarily the right of couples, where it is a matter of health reasons leading to the fact that a couple cannot have a child. Therefore, our legislation does not justify a woman who intends to leave the child after birth to a third party. We don't actually have surrogate motherhood. None of this changes with the Marriage Act on this change, so all these fears are really just a fruit, I can say certain fantasies and we cannot possibly attribute these far-reaching consequences to the Marriage Act. The same is true of the kuriculum. But the fact is that children in primary schools today, on the basis of changes in society, including developments in sociology, when we talk about the sociology of the family, of course we are already talking about different types of families, nuclear, traditional, extended, combined and also same-sex families, and this is not a matter of marriage law, changes of this law, but of certain realities that are in society. It must also be said today that we already have adoptions by same-sex couples. At this point, we have about 15 in our country. No matter what happens at the referendum, things will continue, and the fact is that it is likely that we can give the right to enter into a marriage to two persons who have the same sexual orientation, and nothing else will be decided at the referendum. Everything else is the fruit, to put it mildly, the imagination of some. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u65	Mrs Vesna Vervega, you have the floor to ask the Minister of Health, Mrs Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Minister of Health! The Health and Health Insurance Act provides for the right of one of the parents in a health institution with a sick child up to the age of five. Therefore, parents have free accommodation and nutrition in hospitals under the burden of compulsory health insurance, but the Health and Health Insurance Act does not provide for the right of parents to pay for the care of the child or the hospital stock for the child in that case. As an argument it is stated that the care of a sick child is provided in the health care establishment itself or in the hospital where the child is being treated. Let me mention a specific case. A two-year-old child with special needs has been hospitalized. Although all care was provided at the hospital, the presence of one of the parents was necessary because the child refused to eat, slept, or simply did not function normally without the presence of the person to whom he was accustomed. Thus, the presence of parents in this case contributed to the effectiveness of treatment and thus reduced hospitalisation. Madam Minister, I ask you: Why can't he get one of the parents of the hospital stock for a sick hospitalized child by at least five years of age? Now, in order to be able to stay with a sick child in a hospital, he can only benefit from a year’s leave or simply obtain a hospital stock for himself, which is certainly not the right solution. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u67	Minister of Health Marija Milojka Kolar Celarc, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Member of the Vesna Verveg! You have rightly found that, in accordance with Article 23, paragraph 1, of the Health and Health Insurance Act, in conjunction with the Patient Rights Act and Article 40 of the Compulsory Health Insurance Rules, children have the right to be with their parents at the time of stationary and other health care; they are said to have a permanent escort or co-existence. In fact, rules and legislation do not give this right in everything and in full because it is essentially considered that the care of a sick child is provided in this case in the health care institution itself or in the hospital where the child is being treated. However, there may be exceptions. We have two kinds of exceptions. The first is that the appointed doctor of the Health Insurance Office may, in accordance with Article 30, paragraph 5, of the Health and Health Insurance Act, at the proposal of the UKC Ljubljana College of Experts or its Paediatric Clinic in the case of a child with severe brain damage, cancer or other particularly severe medical deterioration, also grant the right to compensation to one of the parents when that child is in hospital. In this case, therefore, matters are not excluded. The conditions for these exceptions for the exercise of that right are, therefore, that the child who is present is one of those conditions, which requires the opinion of the College of Experts and this last proposal of the College of Experts, is also an integral part of the medical and other documentation submitted to the appointed doctor, by which he then proposes the granting of compensation or compulsory parental presence in this case. Another such exception, or the possibility of entitlement to compensation for the care of a hospitalised child, is also in the case provided for in the second and third paragraphs of Article 40 and Article 138(6) of the Rules, where one of the parents, in addition to the right to stay in the hospital, also the right to compensation in sick, hospitalised children with severe impairment or injury to the brain or spinal cord, where training of parents is required for the subsequent rehabilitation of the child at home. Then in children with chronic diseases or disabilities, where training of parents is also required for the subsequent rehabilitation of the child at home. The duration of the training shall be dependent on the programme for the first time, but in each case it may take up to thirty days and not more than fourteen days. In both cases, the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia shall cover a cost of 70 % of the unit price for the non-medical part of the supply provided by the contract between the institution and the hospital. So there may be certain exceptions, I have said what needs to be submitted for these exceptions. With regard to your last question, however, we will consider what conditions the future Health Care and Health Insurance Act, which we are preparing, would essentially lay down this right not to be exclusive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u69	Mr Ljubo Žnidar, you have the floor to ask the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Peter Gasperšić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u70	Dear Minister, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues! According to an expert assessment of the state of roads in Slovenia, there are 61% of relatively poor roads in Slovenia, causing indirect damage to about 100 million per year. This is an alarming number, but it is also worrying about the budgetary situation for investment or the renewal of the roads themselves for 2016 – only 79 million in the investment itself. However, we know that it is necessary to maintain the quality of roads in Slovenia, around 220 million per year. Among possible solutions, reference is made to a constant source of maintenance and construction of state roads, the so-called petrol cent. If we look back, we had a special law on the so-called petrol tolar from 1998 to 208 under the Law on the Provision of Dedicated Means for the Construction of Motorways in Slovenia. During that period, that is to say in 10 years, a little more than a billion funds, earmarked, for the construction of motorways, were chosen from this title, and during that period much more was spent or invested in the construction of roads than were those earmarked. It is said that during that period we behaved like good masters, of course it was absolutely right, because we cannot imagine today that the highway cross would not be. The proposal for the introduction of a petrol centre is also quite concrete: in 2016 three cents, in 2017 6 cents and in 2018 9 cents respectively. For this reason, Your Honor, I ask you: Will the petrol cent be a new additional financial burden for all users, or will the petrol cent be the intended consumption of the already collected charges for this purpose — or at the price of fuel or actually at other charges?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u71	Minister of Infrastructure Dr. Peter Gasperšič, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Thank you for the question, Your Honor, Ambassador Ljubo Žnidar! If, at first, I am working on some of the general facts that led us to prepare this proposal for the introduction of the so-called infrastructure contribution or infrastructure centre. The fact is that, over the past few years, we have been faced with a lack of sufficient financial resources for investment and investment maintenance in the transport sector, which is road and rail infrastructure, which has had a negative impact on the state of this infrastructure. We know that, especially on roads in recent years, this situation has deteriorated greatly and we already have more than 70%, about 75%, roads in poor or very poor condition. This year, we had only €43 million available in the Road Investments budget and this amount included funds from European funds; in short, net budgetary investments were still less targeted. In the 2016 and 2017 budgets, these funds are expected to be slightly higher, we are approaching the EUR 100 million limit, which we estimate is indeed the minimum investment needed to maintain the current state of the network; in short, we are not in a position to ensure any improvement in this current situation. We estimate that investment maintenance and new investments in state road infrastructure at the annual level would require about 200 million per year – you mentioned 220, which I will say is here somewhere – and about 650 million euros for rail infrastructure. In short, the figures are pretty close to that 300 million. Of course, so much will be needed until we have fully restored and upgraded this infrastructure. We still have some missing sections, especially on the road network, where substantial investments in new construction will be needed, not just renovations. Thus, such an amount of resources is also necessary for the implementation of the national programme that we are currently preparing at the Ministry and will determine and outline the implementation of investments in road, rail infrastructure in the next narrow sense for 6 years. Otherwise, for the whole period of the transport development strategy adopted this summer, this national programme will cover this entire period until 2030. We currently have two types of dedicated resources available to carry out these investments. This is an annual duty for the use of vehicles in transport, from this title we collect around EUR 145 million, and the concession fee of Luka Koper, which belongs to the Republic of Slovenia, from this title an additional EUR 2 million. To establish an effective system, we see that we still have a breakthrough to what needs to be ensured. If we want to ensure this, we need to ensure, on a scale and after stability, an appropriate dedicated resource, which will then allow for the multi-annual planning of these investments, which we intend to draw up with this national programme. The identification of these dedicated stable sources of funding is also essential in order to ensure real medium- and long-term planning of investments in this transport infrastructure, because if we have this stable resource, we can make this long-term plan. As a new source we have foreseen this infrastructure cent, the proposal sets these maximum heights. The final height will, of course, be determined by this scope of the national programme. However, if I now touch on this question, whether it is envisaged as a new additional duty or it will be provided under the duties already collected, in particular on excise duty, I cannot answer you right now, because coordination is taking place, in particular with the Ministry of Finance, where we will consider all these aspects and then take a definitive solution. Will this be in the context of already accepted duties [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u73	Mr. Ljubo Žnidar, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u74	Thank you very much for that answer. This is said, in fact, if there is no final decision whether it will be within or whether it will be an additional tax, I personally believe that somehow earmarked resources are already collected by various taxes, taxes and so on, I would say, enough for this purpose. I think it's all about purposeful spending. For we know that if this were an additional tax, because I saw that up to 200 million per year were to be collected from the gas centre, and if I prejudged and said, yes, if 60% of that tax fell on the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and the economy, then we can say that for 120 million new taxes in Slovenia. On the other hand, if we have come to the knowledge that there are more than 600 million less investments in the following year, here are the new 120 million taxes, then we can imagine how we have burdened the Slovenian economy and the Slovenian citizens. Because from the road tax is 145 million a year, then the tax on motor vehicles is 28 million; of course, the profit of both Darsa and the DRI about 30 million goes to the state budget, and if we just add those numbers together, we actually get to that value that we need, that's worth a little over 200 million. Minister, I appeal to you to take this view in particular, that the funds collected are earmarked for this purpose and that this is not an additional tax.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u75	Minister of Infrastructure Dr. Peter Gasperšič, you have the floor to complete the response.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Surely here is the main purpose of this proposal, which we have prepared to ensure that these funds are earmarked. What you have referred to as possible resources is not yet earmarked resources are funds in the integrated budget. In this proposal, we have also proposed that, in addition to the infrastructure contribution as a means of destination, the profits of Dars, the profits of DRI, then there are some additional benefits that are collected for extraordinary transport and so on; in short, where they are at a smaller scale. However, it is necessary to know, for example, if we are talking about the possibility that the tax on motor vehicles should be deliberately discoloured, i.e. for road infrastructure, that this is a contribution actually fully contributed by our citizens, while for the infrastructure centre, you yourself have mentioned, but it is quite a good part of some contribution that would be made for this purpose, i.e. investment in road and rail infrastructure, by other users who are not citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. That is why we felt that it made sense to raise some money in this way. But the key thing is that this money that we are making is actually going to invest. Because, as you said, resources for investments are shrinking, and in this way we want to maintain this dynamic investment at some level, which, as a result, provides for some economic development again, both because of the direct effects on the economy itself, if you want, or construction and as a result, because the improvement of road links will reduce the resulting damage. You mentioned that about 100 million a year is due to congestion, increased fuel consumption, pollution — these resulting damage will then be reduced. In short, multiple beneficial effects will thus increase investment in road and rail infrastructure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u77	Mr Ljubo Žnidar, you have the floor to request that the reply or procedural proposal be completed in order to discuss your response at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u78	Your Honor! I propose that a public debate be held. The actual gap between the investments needed to rebuild to maintain the situation of the bad roads as it is, but not that this is rapidly deteriorating, that I am not too optimistic to say that this situation would improve considerably in order to have a public debate on this. I believe, Mr Minister, that indeed these funds are going into an integrated budget. Now, however, there is a need to set aside purpose here. If we look at the structure of the price of petrol, taxes and excise duties are 65% – taxes and excise duties are in the structure of the price. That's a very high percentage. If the petrol cent goes into this part, there will be already over 70% of the various duties and burdens in this part. The tax, this is called excise duty, which comes into the budget itself of all energy consumers, is collected annually in the state budget of around 100 billion. If we exclude only fuels, gas and oil or gasoline, this actually represents 95%, so to speak, a billion from this title is collected in the budget. In fact, the biggest problem is to ensure the commitment of the funds already raised. That's what they call a fund-raiser. This gap is actually now at the time of the introduction of the new tax and, on the other hand, a significant reduction in investments, this is absolutely too much for the Slovenian economy and, last but not least, for every fuel user in Slovenia. This is a major impact on development itself, on development and on the improvement of the financial situation, which we know is provided absolutely by the economy. If we reintroduce a new additional tax in this part of the economy, then we know that Slovenia will not be able to wait for this development. Since this is a broad and very important segment in the future and the development of Slovenia, I propose that a public debate be held on this title. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 15 December 2015, in the framework of the votes. Mrs Iva Dimic will ask the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Dr Anji Kopač Dark.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u80	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Madam Secretary! I want to know: How will the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities in the event of the entry into force of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations implement the second paragraph of Article 3, which states that the importance of marriage is in the design of a family for all in accordance with the law of the eligible group of citizens? I also want to know: Is the Marriage and Family Relations Act the only and direct legal basis for the implementation of the adoption of children in the Republic of Slovenia? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u81	The Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anja Kopač Dark has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President of the National Assembly. Thank you, Mrs. Iva Dimic, for the question. With regard to the implementation of the second paragraph of Article 3, which speaks of the importance of marriage in the design of the family, the State will do as it has done in the referendum if I say so, the Law on Marriage and Family Relations. This is mainly through preventive measures, but here is an important resolution on family policy that has expired and that needs to be adopted again in a broad dialogue with all stakeholders, because it is particularly preventive, how, in what way you help parents to have children, and on the other hand, with two arrangements as so far as possible. This is by regulation in the area of adoption and regulation in fertilisation with biomedical assistance, which, of course, does not have any nature whatsoever. You would like to say that because this second paragraph of Article 3 states that this will be the basis for amending the articles relating to adoptions or perhaps for the law on fertilisation with biomedical assistance. This will be decided by the National Assembly and everything else, perhaps if you point to it, of course, is absolutely unfounded. At this point, the law on fertilization with biomedical assistance speaks of it as it speaks. However, it is unlikely that they would want to require the same sexes to have the right under this Article and that they can justify this by amending the Biomedical Aid Act. This is as if parents who cannot have children are not in some way entitled to adopt, but we know that it is not real that 570 parents who want to adopt are in the register. Of course, no law can give them that right. Rarely, unfortunately, they have this opportunity to adopt a child here in Slovenia or perhaps abroad. The number is up to 44 to 50, maximum, including adoption abroad. These are in some way facts and we can convert them in one way or another and also the Law on Marriage and Family Relations with this novel does not in any way change the provisions of motherhood and paternity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mrs. Iva Dimic, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, you have not answered my question as to how and in what way or how the Ministry will ensure the implementation of the second paragraph of Article 3, which states that the importance of the marriage is in the design of the family. You said with preventive measures: I don't know what these measures are. And yet I would like to answer another question that I am interested in: Is the Marriage and Family Relations Act the only and direct legal basis for the implementation of the adoption of children in the Republic of Slovenia? I'd just like to ask: How will you protect paternity, motherhood and children, which is a constitutional category under Article 53 of the Constitution? This is exactly what changes in the new novel in some way, in the new law. I didn't suggest anything about what was going to happen, but maybe you could just answer me: How can two homosexual men carry out, or how does the second paragraph of Article 3 apply to them, the importance of marriage in the founding of a family? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u85	Thank you very much. To complement my reply, I give the floor to the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Dr. Anji Kopač Mrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u86	Thank you. I apologize, I have previously forgotten the second part of your question where you asked me whether the Marriage and Family Relations Act is the only and direct legal basis for the adoption of children in the Republic of Slovenia. The answer is that the only and direct legal basis for the implementation of adoptions of children in Slovenia is, of course, recognition of foreign judicial decisions and jurisprudence – we also have a Supreme Court decision, which we have already discussed on the occasion before. In accordance with my best ability, I have replied that we will be doing what we have been doing so far. In particular, preventive measures are important by allowing those who want to have children to have them, where there is a major social situation: the crisis affects the number of births, the possibility of employment for indefinite periods has a very important impact on the number of births in our country. They are also important, and unfortunately we do not have the possibility of having an impact on the number of births with family policy, for example with children's allowances, because data shows that these do not affect people's choice for a child or not because of the height of the child's supplements. [[…]] With all these measures, as we have done so far, the resolution on family policy will be one of the key when we talk about how we will encourage families in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic, you have the floor to complete the reply to the debate on your response at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Because the Marriage and Family Relations Act is the only and direct legal basis for implementing the adoption of children in the Republic of Slovenia and where the importance of men and women in this law is changing, I think it makes sense to have a broader and public debate on this subject. That is why I also propose an in-depth debate, and I expect Members to support this issue, but to clarify whether or not someone is lying or deceiving it and how this will happen or the law will be implemented in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u89	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 15 December 2015, in the framework of the votes. The question will be raised by Mr Primož Hainz to the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Marble.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u90	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister and Minister, Dear Mr. Mumor! The insurance company Triglav recently sold a 97 % share of the New York bus carrier Avrigo. As we read in the media, Avrigo sold it to a well-known entrepreneur, which is cheaper for a good half million than Slovenian railways. It is alleged that the Slovenian State Holding Authority was not able to decide on the consent of the Slovenian Railways to purchase this company. At the same time, I would like to point out that, after some studies, the purchase by Slovenian Railways is intended to create a high synergy between bus and rail transport, while at the same time we could save the company from hiring bus transports, of course, that I am not talking about half a million sums. Since it seems to me that the management of the Slovenian State Holding has not been able to decide in due time on the agreement to purchase, worrying about the reasons for the delay, or on the following: How did the purchase by Slovenian Railways not take place? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u91	Thank you very much. To answer that question, I give the floor to the Minister of Finance, Dr. Dusan Maramor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Dear Member, Mr Primož Hainz! The Slovenian State Holding Act, inter alia, that the Slovenian State Holding Company carries out all the investments of the Republic of Slovenia, including the Insurance Office of Triglav and the Slovenian Railway, on behalf of and on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia, in accordance with the principle of independence. This means that the government or the ministry must not interfere with their management. In accordance with this principle, as Minister of Finance, I have no jurisdiction in Avrigo's sales procedure. Only SDH has competence, which in this particular case explained to me for the purpose of yours that it received an application from Slovenian Railways for an agreement to purchase a 97 % stake in Avrigo on Friday, 20. 11 o'clock this year, 3:46 p.m. by e-mail. SDH should submit a decision or agreement to purchase as the Slovenian Railways Assembly by Monday morning at 9 a.m. Given the size of the deal, it is 14.8 million euros, and a very clear procedure for deciding whether to give consent to such SDH deals at the weekend, of course, could not give. The sales procedures of Avrigo SDH were not known, nor did he have information from the Slovenian Railways, as was the time-table and why it was given such a short time-limit for giving consent. In the light of this SDH explanation, I estimate that the reason for such a closed transaction was elsewhere. The fact is that the Slovenian Railway Supervisory Board gave its consent to Avrigo's binding offer on Friday, 20. 11. 2015 is the same day as SDH’s consent was requested. However, it has not yet been known that SDH’s consent is also required for the status of a binding offer by the seller. The main problem for me, as Minister of Finance in all this matter, is that during this time SDH did not manage SDH as a company in the majority or 62.56% of the ownership of the Republic of Slovenia during the sales process. This is an absurd and unacceptable situation resulting from the withdrawal of voting rights to the State as the majority owner of the Triglav Insurance Company by the ATVP in 2013. On the basis of this decision, the State of Insurance Triglav was unable to exercise management privileges and thus, inter alia, directly appoint supervisors and indirect members of the administration who also decide on such transactions. A week after this sale, that is 2. 12. This year, the ATVP granted the country voting rights, which was also based on the amendment of the takeover law that we adopted. The decision will be authorised in a short time, so that SDH can again fully exercise ownership rights. In doing so, I expect SDH to be one of its first tasks, of course in accordance with the legislation, including the audit of Avrigo’s sales procedure and the appropriate action in the event of the infringements found.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko will ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology Mr Zdravek Počvalško a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished Minister and the rest of the ministerial team, welcome! If we look at the data on the value of exports themselves on the European market, we can see that our far most important partner is Germany. For 2014, we had € 4.6 billion in exports. Austria followed with a little over €2 billion, as well as data from 2014. Exports were in 2014 as well as in 2015, and in view of the forecast, will also drive our economic growth in the future. Even today, a similar issue has arisen between the questions of the Member States on several occasions, the exposure of the so-called mini-schengna, which has somehow emerged in the European Union area in recent weeks. Although the idea was first highlighted by the Dutch finance minister, we know that the Netherlands will take over the presidency from January onwards, which means that it will be involved or in some way directing all the upcoming talks, the key talks at European level. Although today the Prime Minister has somehow rejected this idea, we certainly cannot simply throw it away. The consequences can be catastrophic for Slovenia. Slovenia, I believe that the European Union is assessing by action and not just by word of mouth, so this seems even more important to me. Today we don't have the so-called mini schengna, I hope we never have it. But we are already facing a record number of immigrants in Europe, who are somehow also transiting across Slovenia, and, of course, the result is that the borders are in such a way or otherwise, I will say, shut down or, in some way, restrict the transition, of course, with the basic objective that this flow is as controlled as possible, which is, of course, right. In doing so, however, there are already many criticisms by economists that there is some damage to them. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you: What will be the impact on Slovenian exports if this idea of the so-called mini Schengen is realized? What are the consequences for the economy now due to greater border controls? What will you do as Minister of Economy that our exporters will not feel that way in the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u95	I give the floor to the Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Zdravek Počvalšk, to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u96	Madam President. Messengers, Members, honourable Members! The establishment of temporary technical steering obstacles by the Republic of Slovenia is primarily aimed at the first part of the dispersion and targeting the transition of refugees to checkpoints. This calls for the protection of citizens and the functioning of the country as well as the protection of refugees. At the same time, at our ministry, we are aware of the burdens of border areas where refugees can cross the border with Slovenia. This is an activity that we believe is crucial in that the things we have heard about today that will not happen to us again and again. I'm talking about the so-called mini-schenga because I believe that Schengen is defending itself at our Schengen border. Now, the fact is that in our neighbouring partner country, Austria, they also decided to build a fence last week, and that they want a refugee who comes to Austria on the so-called Balkan route, to prevent the crossing of the green border. In addition, Austria has set up a new reception centre on its side of the border crossing, Špilje, part of which will also be a fence to direct refugees to the entry point. In this light, we do not think that this activity itself will have a direct impact on the free movement of goods or the trade flows of Slovenian exporters. Of course, there were no negative effects in the economic field in this construction of the wire fence at the border with Austria. However, the psychological impact of this activity cannot be overlooked here. Slovenia is in the Schengen area and remains in the Schengen area, and I would not repeat here what the President has already said twice today; in any case we believe that the mini scheng is gone and will not. Everything else that has been said to have been discussed at some levels is true, but this is not an official policy of those countries and that we have strong assurances that this will not happen. Once again, I believe that the mini-schengen can be defended only on our southern border, although I believe that our activities in this psychological sense are also deeply communicated and that they have affected the fact that the countries south of us have gone to a different light and that their actions have also affected the fact that we now have this wave on a slightly lower level. The fact is that what you said is: Austria and Germany are our most important partners, Germany is first, with it we have 10 billion euros in trade or trade, half of which is exports, half of which is imports. It is necessary to know that we export to Germany more than Canada, more than Portugal, more than Greece, and that this is our living aorta, which we cannot afford to endanger in this light. Therefore, for all these reasons, it is important not to close the borders, and our activity is targeted, I repeat, to prevent the spillover of refugees to the green border, not to close the border with the neighbouring Republic of Croatia. In this light, we also understand the activities of Austria, which are at this border crossing because of the road, because we have a large refugee centre on our side, wanted to direct this refugee wave and prevent an uncontrolled crossing across the green border. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u97	Mrs. Susana beautiful Šimenka, you have the floor to request a supplement to the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u98	Thank you for your word. I fully agree with you, but, however, look, the distinguished minister, the economists are already warning today because the border is not closed, but because of all these technical obstacles at the border, the flow of goods is slower. Trucks can't just drive through, they're in the middle of occasional controls, which means the delivery time is a little longer, which, of course, also means higher transport costs. Given that some of our companies also have "just and time" supplies, this is extremely important, and it is very difficult to calculate this time. We can't just say that it doesn't exist. However, I am interested in the need to keep thinking, not least at the border with Italy, there is some way that controls are increasing and everything really needs to be done to make the flow of goods happen, as it is today, which means good for the economy, because this is crucial; it is crucial for Slovenia, which is crucial for our economic growth. If we look at what has already been mentioned, the autumn forecast of Umarje, 2015, 2.7% economic growth, in 2016 2.3%. Of course, not least all social transfers are linked to economic growth. But it must be borne in mind that this autumn forecast does not take into account the migration crisis, what has already happened to us and may be us in the coming year. That's not the best way to rely on that information. Nevertheless, Minister, I really want to know: How will you react in the future that in fact our economists will have no losses and will be able to export as they have exported so far? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Minister of Economic Development and Technology Mr Zdravko Restoršek, you have the floor to complete the response.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u100	Thank you. In order to ensure that the economy is not damaged by the refugee crisis, we cannot. We are already finding that individual companies in exposed areas around the Dobova area on the southern border, Gornje Radgone and Šentilja on the northern border are more affected than others. One company to a greater extent, the other to a lesser extent, depending on the industry, depending on the activity. These are the facts. Of course, I must reiterate once again that the direct impact on the economy's suffering from the damage caused by the failure to communicate or supply goods at this time is not at the southern and northern borders. But we are aware of the problems that you have mentioned or taken into account; and once again, this Schengen border is being defended, at least as far as our view is concerned, at the southern border, in the way we have to do our work in relation to refugees, in accordance with the Schengen rules. If we could agree sooner, this would be much more southerly, and we would not be forced to impose this unpopular action with a wire fence. However, I believe that with the first six fenced, we have made a strong psychological impact on all those who are south of us, to take this matter more seriously, and that we will come to the point that we may not have to take this action to the end and that we will collectively do certain things in areas where we should have done them before. But in any case, when we are alone, if we want to prevent so-called, I will say again, in my opinion, the non-existent mini-schengen, we must also be prepared for this matter in this context. The problems in this direction of our transport to the north cannot be ruled out, but I believe that all the moves we have made, which we are ready to make and which we are going to do, are aimed at keeping our economy able to keep its transport flows to all its outlets, but which are to the greatest extent in these two countries you have mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Ma'am mag. Alenka Bratušek will ask the Minister of Health Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, Minister! According to statements and partial measures in the legislation, the Ministry of Health has deviated from solving the key dilemmas of Slovenian health. Instead of serious reform, we have been analysing Slovenian health care for the past year, which is facing many and increasingly difficult problems that the Minister does not want to see. Enough cutting tapes and building interventions to hospitals, it is time to face serious problems in them, says Slovenian Medical Chamber President Andrej Možina. Nothing happens to standards and norms. They do not undertake health reform, this shows ignorance, the inability of both the minister and the entire government to do something, says the President of the Medical Union, Mr Kuštrin. The 451st day is today, Your Honor, since you have been seated on this hot seat of Minister or Minister of Health. The health situation is, not only my own, but the assessment of someone else, from day to day, worse. 451 days is still a time when at least a small step in the right direction could be taken. The non-trust that you received from the medical organizations is our estimate of the peak on the i. As we said, not a single change, a serious change, at that time, was not on the table or even those that were and were prepared, were either withdrawn or withdrawn. That there is total chaos in health care, and that there is also a pattern of personnel. From the Oncology Institute, the Institute for Health Insurance of the Republic of Slovenia, the Celje Hospital, and here is also the Clinical Center. Ladies and gentlemen, due to recent developments, I ask you: How do you plan to act? Are you thinking that a meaningful government and president would be burdened by a resignation and give someone else the opportunity to seriously address the situation in Slovenian health care?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Minister of Health Milojka Kolar Celarc will answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u104	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Member! I am very pleased with this question, I must say, because I will have the opportunity to answer these questions, because you, Mrs Bratušek, have been leading the health department for some time, you certainly know that the problems accumulated in this sector over the past 15 years are very large and that interest groups are also very large. You also know that the average mandate of past ministers of health has been less than two years and that unfortunately no minister has been able to make major structural changes during this period. Well, if I start all over again. With regard to the obvious fact that we have nothing to show that this week the government will consider or the committees, and the government will probably next week, the Resolution on the national health plan for Slovenia for 2016 to 2025, referred to as the Common Health Society. This is a key strategic document that talks about our future, about the objectives of the health system, about measures, activities, about carriers and also about resources. Let me say that this resolution has been coordinated with more than one hundred stakeholders or stakeholders and not just once; that this resolution has been coordinated with the European Commission, with all the relevant DGs for health, employment and social rights, for finance; that this resolution is also concrete because it has very precisely defined objectives with business indicators at the end of the period and also in the interim period; and that this resolution may have been created and that it incorporates the results of an analysis of the health system, which it has also had to do because Slovenia unfortunately does not have or since its independence. This analysis, covering more than 370 pages, will also be presented and fully translated and published on our January website. The results of this analysis were the basis of a final structural change in Slovenian health care. It also showed that in Slovenia we have neglected the management and management of public health institutions and the area of financing. And if I are to say what has already been done, in spite of everything, that these two strategic documents have been done, the amendments and additions to the Health Act, which regulates in a transparent manner the award and execution of concessions, have been prepared, in the final phase, also a comprehensive system law on pharmacy activities, other minor changes have been prepared, as you know, and some laws have already been adopted, not to mention emergency medical care, since it has already been mentioned that emergency centres must be completed and put into operation as of 1 January. Yes, and so we hurry to open them and they will all be completed and built until the day exactly and given to use. In the resolution you can also see what we will do in the years until 2025. Just for a little while now, what is envisaged immediately after the new year or by the first half of the following year; this is the Health and Health Insurance Act. We're preparing a law on patient rights. As you know, the pilot project of the waiting period gave first results. Today we have already shown the reduction of waiting lines at the press conference and, of course, all other changes, which are very clear and taxively mentioned in the resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Request to complete the response of the mags. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I'm a little less pleased with your answer than you were with my question. And yes, I know about the accumulated health problems and far from being responsible for all of this or the vast majority of them. But you're responsible for not doing anything in 451 days. And today you are explaining to me that we should be happy or that the resolution by 2025 will save everything. Great, in 2025, honey and milk will be drained, and we have problems today and here! I will be happy with the marriage proposals if, of course, you do not withdraw them sooner, because you have withdrawn everything you have tried to do. Point on i, but I mentioned earlier, but there's a medical staffing, and even the biggest black spot is the placement at the Clinical Center. Ms Brigita Čokl is suitable for the performance of the duties of the Clinical Centre, but she is neither suitable for the Director nor for the performer of the duties at the Celje Hospital. Can you explain to me how this is possible? And: Is it possible that the claims circulating across Celje that Mrs. Chokl ended up at the Clinical Center precisely so that the director who is a member of the Modern Centre Party may be at Celje Hospital?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc will answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u108	Thank you, too, for this additional question, honourable Member. I think it should be said that they appoint hospital directors of sacred establishments, which are the autonomous and highest authority of management and control. As you probably know, as soon as I came to the Ministry, I adopted a special protocol on what is called or who can run and can become a member of the board of the institution in the interest of raising the management, management at a higher level of expertise and responsibility. That's one. This applies to all institutions, this also applies to UKC or, if you want, to Celje Hospital. But just for a little while. What was done in the past year? So you would be making structural changes in the health system without looking at one side of what really needs to be done in our health care and not saying everything on the average that health is in disarray because that is not the case, and on the other hand having some strategy, some vision of development. These are the two roof documents that are absolutely necessary if we want to make the real long-term vision, the demographic trends that have seen changes in our health care. But if I go back, what have I done besides these two strategic documents, which are both very difficult and extensive in their own way, as well as the budget. You yourself know: water rehabilitation – Oncology Institute; projects, continuation of the construction of DTS of a new emergency. Now the final rehabilitation of the water supply at the Oncology Institute – with all the problems that have been and the replacement of operators and supervisors – will be completed, as the contract has been done, without additional means. We haven't removed any laws. The Emergency Medical Aid Regulation, where we introduce a single, professional, one-stop system of emergency medical care, which is urgently needed in Slovenia, which has proved very well in the refugee crisis, that it must be delegated, structured in one place; and this is the responsibility of the Ministry of Health and this has also been done.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mag. Alenka Bratušek, you have a request for a debate in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I don't know why you're so optimistic when virtually everyone in health care is standing up to you. Given that health care is one of the most important systems of the social state, I think it is right that we also discuss this issue at a meeting of the National Assembly. Personnel is just one segment, you can accept higher expertise, I don't know what standards, but the fact is, it's being staffed like it's never been before, and it's so bad. Look at hospitals that have been in hospitals for months, one for years, not CEOs, but performers of duty. And yes, it is proposed by the councils of the boards of directors and appointed by them the performers of duty, the distinguished minister, but you or the government name the sacred institutions. So absolute is responsibility and this is the perfect responsibility for what is happening in health care at the Ministry and the entire government. Since I appreciate your work, I know you from the Ministry of Finance's work, I don't think you'll be doing yourself a very big service in your professional career with this ministerial trip. Perhaps you would like to appeal to reconsider if it is not appropriate to burden the Prime Minister of the Government and the Government together to find a person who will obviously be able to talk to health professionals in a different way. Even if you have no idea how good the ideas are, I can't imagine how you'll be able to do them with such resistance on the other hand, the resistance of virtually all medical organizations. That is why I think it is right to discuss this in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Mag. Bojana Muršič will appoint Minister of Health Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Dear Minister! As I have already stated in my letter question, this time I am interested in the dental care of the elderly or the adults. I also came from the Resolution on the National Health Programme 2015-2025, Together for Health Society, chapter Primary Health. Findings that dental work is poorly regulated are worrying, especially during this long-term crisis, when the cost of repairing teeth exceeds the income of the individual, waiting periods are quite long in public health or even in relation to the basket. Of course, I cannot go beyond the fact that good dental and dental health is very important for the general health of people as well as for the individual’s self-esteem and inclusion in society. Of course, I welcome the resolution that is required after the introduction of preventive activities for adults, so I ask you here: How will preventive activities in adult dental care be carried out? Are any plans prepared, in any way, for this preventive activity to be carried out? However, I cannot help but overlook the fact that in the last 15 years dental technology has changed or evolved significantly and, based on practice, new materials have been found to be more successful and less harmful to health and also replace amalgam seals or black seals. I believe that these materials should only be removed from dental offices and replaced with materials that would also be accessible to adults from compulsory health insurance. In this regard, I ask you: What is your opinion on replacing amalgam with other materials used in dental care? Is that what you think at the Ministry? And if: How, or when, could we accomplish this? However, I must also point out that some countries such as Denmark, Finland, Sweden and Norway, which is not a member of the European Union, have banned these amalgams. I want to know: Are there also discussions at European level on a general ban on the use of this amalgam? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Minister of Health Milojka Kolar Celarc will answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u114	Thank you for your word. Once again, honourable Member, Mrs Bojana Muršič, thank you for the question. You are right to say that oral diseases are one of the major public health problems in the world. Because poor oral health also has a very important impact on the general health of the population. Some oral disorders are associated with chronic diseases such as diabetes. Pain and disturbances in chewing, feeding, communication that may result from poor oral health also have an important impact on the quality of life. Oral diseases also limit activities in the education process, work and cause a significant number of both school hours and hours lost. Preventive health measures are known to lead to significant improvements in the oral health of the population. In the field of dental care for children and young people, access to preventive activities in Slovenia is appropriate and another is the case with adults. Preventive activities should therefore be primarily directed at children and adolescents and particularly vulnerable groups such as pregnant women, chronically ill, elderly people, people with reduced abilities. The Ministry of Health is following the Scandinavian countries which include these vulnerable groups that need more health care in the insurance system. Unfortunately, the current financing system and the peacock basket do not provide preventive services for adults in the context of health insurance. In order to ensure preventive activities in the field of adult dental care, both the funding system and the basket of rights should be amended. Preventive activities lead to better oral and systemic health as well as ultimately to cheaper dental care, which the Ministry of Health will also seek by changing funding and changing the rights of the basket, as we have already found, in the resolution on the national plan. With regard to the abandonment of amalgam, I would like to say the following: due to the toxicity of mercury in amalgam seals, which could cause adverse effects in seal carriers, dentists and the environment, the European Parliament started a debate already in 2005 on the possibility of banning amalgams within the European Union. On 10 October 2013, the United Nations and the European Union signed the so-called Minamata Convention, which states in Annex A that Member States should initiate procedures for the lifting of amalgam, not by any means immediately banning it. The Minamata Convention is the first global act on the management of mercury. Dental amalgams are listed in this Convention among the ingredients containing mercury and it is therefore recommended in Annex A to the Convention that States initiate procedures to progressively reduce the use of dental amalgams, not with immediate prohibition. In view of their own, unfortunately, in this case, the financial capacity available for dental care should determine the rate of gradual reduction of dental amalgams. The provisions of the Convention recommend to the States parties the following measures to reduce the use of dental programmes in dental care: one is the adoption of national objectives under the prevention and health promotion programme, the adoption of national objectives leading to the most effective reduction of the use of dental amalgams. Promoting the use of clinically and cost-effective alternative materials and promoting best environmental practices with a view to reducing the release of mercury. Further, when we write laws, it is necessary to say what will be the rate of abolition of amalgams in Slovenia in order to confirm this, financial evaluation is necessary and must be accepted by the Health Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The request to complete the answer is mag. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Minister, for your comprehensive response. I am pleased that you too are expressing the importance of dental care for adults. Otherwise, I must say that you have answered all my questions, but I would like to draw attention to Amalgam bays that cause problems and affect my health, as the research has shown — the thyroid, Alzheimer's disease and other things as well. I expect you to advocate that the lifting of amalgam will take place as soon as possible, because this is very important; and that replacing these bays with other, more accessible or less harmful health effects will be more involved in the basic basket of health services. I expect you at the Ministry to advocate that this deadline will be as short as possible, that patients will be provided with as much care as possible, that these preventive adult activities will also be included in the basic health basket's rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, will you answer? Here you go. Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u118	Thank you. It should also be said that research is also being carried out on other replacement materials that would replace these dental amalgams and have no detrimental effect. As I have already said, I will also take the lead in drafting this legislation on the basis of a resolution, in order to gradually join Slovenia in this replacement. Let me say, unfortunately, dentistry has also been somewhat neglected in recent years, given the state of the Ministry. Here we have such a state that it will almost have to be put on a new footing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak will ask the Minister of the Interior a question. Spring Györkös Žnidar. Given her excused absence, please identify yourself to the way you answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Let the oral answer be at the next meeting of the National Assembly, although it is likely to be a little late at that time. I ask the Minister two questions, both related to the statement of police officers, regarding new and replacement employment in the Police and the negotiations with the Police Union of Slovenia and the Police Union of Slovenia. The bet itself is not a special or exceptional situation, as police officers often strike; even at the time I led the interior ministry myself. I'm interested in the differences between what the union says and what the minister says. From the beginning, she talked about the fact that the government had already met a number of police demands, including the fact that she had allowed the employment of 50 police officers. But the police say it's not true that it's only 8 police officers, and other jobs are elsewhere, after administration and so on. This is probably not a particular problem, since at least the government's acts should contain what individual employment is for. A much more interesting part of the answer that I have promised myself today is this one; in this government all that is impossible is possible here. The Minister supports the police's demands. At least that's what she said at the beginning or even before the sentence. Now he's negotiating with them. How can you negotiate with someone you agree with? How's it going now? It's probably a special art. And that's what I wanted to ask the secretary how it was going. It's very strange that you agree with someone, and then you negotiate with them. How can you negotiate if you agree with him? If you agree with him, you probably go to Dr. Marble's, talk to him about the money, and the problems are solved. The minister agrees with the police, so it's unusual how he can negotiate. If you were to negotiate, it would be quite different, which you disagree with. I would like an answer to this question, Minister, and I request an oral reply at the next meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Lah will ask the Minister of Finance, Dr. Dusan Marble, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Nice greetings to the ministers! I would like to ask the Minister of Finance today. We all know that the Slovenian economy is over-indebted, that it has over-indebted itself in recent years, and that a number of companies have ended up due to over-indebted loans. However, some companies that could no longer pay interest or any obligation to banks came into their own hands because of the interest of the banks and became their owner. The bank, which is owned by the majority of the country, is probably only looking at how to get as much out of this property as possible, how to sell at the best price, get rid of this investment and get back all those loans that it just gave to the company. But since the banks are state-owned, I wonder if the government is watching over these companies? Because companies are not just some property or some value that the bank is looking at, but there are many other things in the company – capital in workers, knowledge, jobs, after all in the contributions paid by the company. The view should be a little wider, not narrowly left to banks that do not even know how to run businesses, in my opinion, and there can be great damage. I want to know: How does the ministry or government monitor this? What leverage does it have with regard to any sales that are pointless, premature or indirectly cause more damage than benefits; how does the ministry or government control the management or conduct of its property in practice because the banks are majority owned by the State?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Dr. Dusan Maramor, Minister of Finance, will give an answer. Here you go. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Before I begin, only this warning – the Slovenian economy is no longer indebted. We are now on the average of the European Union's debt almost after all the indicators. But it was, and it was a strong one, over-indebted after the start of the crisis. He's holding on to what you said. These problems arising from this over-indebtedness are also problems related to poor claims in our banks and the management of these poor claims. I would say so, but the bad claims in our banks are still far above average, and we are among the countries that have the most grossly poor claims in bank balance sheets. This is one of the areas that we need to tackle extremely intensively. We have taken a number of measures, partly following the European Union's demands, and partly taking action on our side. With regard to these measures, the restructuring of these claims, the restructuring of companies, as you mentioned, and all that is involved. With regard to these bad claims, I would say that the first thing to do is not to make new bad claims. We have multiple mechanisms here. The first mechanism is that where the request by the European Commission has been recapitalised at the time of granting the State aid licence, it is called for the recapitalisation of banks; it is a requirement that during the restructuring period banks that have been recapitalised can approve new loans, provided that they obtain a capital return of at least 7 % in 2014 and that in the following years up to 10 %. By doing so, you are demanding that you give credit only to those businesses that are good business, and you do not increase bad claims. In addition, we must mention the impact of the new law governing banking, which I mentioned earlier. While banks have sufficient capital and liquidity after recapitalisation, it must be realised that, on the basis of the new banking legislation and past bad experiences, credit standards are now stricter, as I have mentioned. Banks are also more cautious about taking on additional credit risk and prefer to switch lending to less risky commissioners; in particular the population and other forms of investment. This banking law now ensures that new bad loans will not be or will be substantially smaller than they were. Regarding what you asked, however, the basic question is how these bad claims, which are in banks, sells, or restructures, or how they are being cashed. And the basic logic of the amendment of the ZUKSB, the law on this restructuring of banks' claims, is that DUTB will have, after a new possibility of restructuring companies differently than it has now; and also more possibilities of financing restructuring. DUTB is now the institution that can collect lenders, those who have bad loans to a particular company, and then lead the restructuring process. They may make a replacement of these claims into equity shares, they may be co-financed when this is adopted at this meeting of the National Assembly; and they shall pursue an active policy to try to maintain jobs and businesses where it makes sense. Where it makes no sense, DUTB will cash out the insurance that is for these loans and the company will cease to operate. This amendment of legislation is crucial. We still need to adopt an annual work plan, an annual management plan with the country's capital investments. We will probably have this next week at the government's meeting, where there are also targets for bad bank claims, so this is then in the management of SDH, which must ensure that these objectives are also achieved.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr. Bell Lah, you have the floor to request a reply, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u126	Mr. Minister, I was wondering why banks are rushing to sell a public company. Today, however, I have heard from you that at this meeting a law is being passed that should give the bad bank a chance to manage it differently. But maybe there's a reason he's in such a hurry, because then it probably wouldn't be given any more of the results that the company's been showing lately. It's about the company, you know, I think you've also discussed at the coalition and the government when banks changed their loans to equity, they switched directors or managers, and the company started collecting very quickly. In the bad five months, their value has increased by almost 30%, and it is suddenly in a hurry to sell it. It's about 350 employees. A company that has created its brand for 50 years has technology that is the only technology in Europe for certain products. And now there are buyers who want to buy a fast-growing company before the performance of this year's business. They've been doing a lot of work for the second year. We were wondering why we should sell before the new year. The assessment also showed that the value increased by almost 30% from the end of May to the end of October. Today it is also intended to be sold to a competitor from another country who wants to practically simply absorb these technologies. But we do know that the number of workers will go half.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u127	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Dr. Dusan Marble's Minister of Finance to complete the answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u128	What is crucial with regard to the Slovenian State Holding Act and the DUTB, which regulates the functioning of the DUTB. These corporate rights in the Republic of Slovenia are not managed by the State in a company that is considered either to be a country's capital investment or for claims such as DUTB; these ownership rights are not managed by the State; they are managed by these two institutions and, of course, have very clear objectives. For example, with SDH, it means that one who can exercise the right to information, as well as those who, on the basis of such data, can be given an assessment of work, such as administrations, SDH works or the specific claim of DUTB; the Ministry does not have that power. [[Incomprehensible]] From this point of view, it is very difficult to comment on this case, because I do not know exactly what case it is. But according to the legislation, according to plans, the annual plans work SDH for what he has in his hands, and on the other hand the DUTB, what he has in his hands. Their objectives, however, are to maximize the value of the assets; in the case of DUTB, to restructure and make the company operational again in accordance with the DUTB plan. This is their goal, and I doubt that they will deviate from the objective in their work. But in case you do, then the ministry and the government can reach out.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Lah, you have the floor to request that the next meeting of the National Assembly discuss the answer to your question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u130	Thank you very much. I will take advantage of the business opportunity to vote on the debate in this national assembly. Minister, this is Trimo Trebnje, who pays 5 million contributions each year to the state budget. Where's the receipt? Where's the rest? But apparently, it's left to the mongrels now, that's for the banks that only see how to get as much out of the company as possible. If they gave it to the company 11 million and now they're going to sell it for 40, 50 million; of course, that's a success. The second year, however, the state will be able to give – not the bank – a few million social contributions to those unemployed. That's probably not in line with the law. I also told one committee that it was true, as the late mother of the Prime Minister said, that every piece of shit is not illegal. This is not an illegal act either; but from the point of view of the country, it is a healthy farm of intelligence that is a major mess. The consequences will be known in a year or two, but no one cares if the workers have created a company, a brand, hired so many workers, conquered markets for 50 years. They are now doing well over those results that you mentioned earlier, in which cases banks could still be helping to have such a profit. Trime Trebnje now creates such profit and even more. The works are huge, but unfortunately they're left to the butchers, the scavengers, to tear this company apart, the banks get as much back into their own account as possible. That mountain will be left to the local population, to the municipality, after all, to the country. This is not how it is done, although we do not have the right legislation, but it needs to be adopted, it should have been adopted long ago. If that's how it's done with companies like this, including others, if that's how it's done so far, I'm really worried about where we're gonna get to. I'm not surprised where we've come from, when every worker sees, the employees work hard, they've fired enough workers to cut costs, now they're working full steam, they're making profits; tomorrow they'll be easy on the road. The new owner will stop the development and marketing of their market and fill this market with his products. It's sad that the state can't do anything here. It refers to some legislation, apparently proposed by officials and is inappropriate and harmful.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 15 December 2015, in the framework of the votes. Mrs Violeta Tomić will raise the question to the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnificent Nutrition. To Diane jedan, who's gone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u132	Thank you for your word. At the next meeting, I would like an oral answer to my question. I'm sorry he's gone. I'm sorry there's no Prime Minister here to share my deep grief with them. I'm grieving today. I'm sorry about the Kolpo River. It's a lot to mention. I grieve for innocent, poor animals who match and bleed in pain in your so-called technical obstacles. I grieve for poor children who have never seen the sea, but now they won't even be able to swim in the Kolpa River. I'm sorry about tourism. I grieve for my White Land, which has lived until now, and now the government of Mira Cerar has struck her dead. I'm sorry about Slovenia, which was surrounded by a barbed wire. And I grieve for Europe, which has fallen through history with its wrong policies. The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food also covers hunting, fisheries and the care of wild animals. We have seen horrendous images of animals caught up in the so-called technical obstacles set by this government. We have seen this, and this is also pointed out by animal protection organizations, hunting families, and people along the border who are no longer free to walk their dogs and domestic animals in order to move freely around. The barbed wire or so - called technical barriers have blades that are made in such a way that if an animal or man catches them, it is difficult to get out; and the more the sausage cuts, the more it bleeds and the more it bleeds until it bleeds to death. In the area where you set up technical barriers, migratory flows of game take place throughout the year. Under the highways are special passageways through which animals can safely cross motorways. There are no crossings at the border. By setting up a wire fence, the government has prevented many landowners on both sides of the so-called technical barriers from processing the fields normally. The farmers are concerned about what will happen with the spring seed and also with harvesting. They won't be able to use combines in some fields. That's why I'm asking: Did the government also include in the price of protecting borders with technical barriers the price of social distress for farmers due to small crops, income losses and further abandonment of farming in the border band? Does the State intend to compensate farmers for the inability to use agricultural land? How do you think the setting up of technical barriers will affect the population of wild animals, especially endangered species? Don't you think by putting the wire on the line, you're putting the social security of the people at the border? I also want to know: Who signed this decree? How much did the wire cost? Luke the moon didn't get an answer to that question. When will it be removed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr Daniel Krivec will ask the question to the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Peter Gasperšić, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u134	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting to all ministers present, especially Minister Gasperšić, to whom I also address the issue in connection with Block 6 of the Šostanj Termoelectrica. We have dealt with this issue many times in this National Assembly and also in the Home Committees and have adopted a number of conclusions. Similar conclusions were also adopted by the government in connection with risk management in the construction of Block 6 of the Šostanj Termoelectrica power plant, in conjunction with the adopted guarantee law. And in this regard, I ask the Minister: Has the Ministry already obtained a document on the planned risk management measures in connection with the investment in Block 6 of the Šostanj Thermoelectric Power Plant and in connection with related companies since the conclusions were adopted and also taken? Has the Ministry already obtained a confirmed NIP 6, this is the Novelled Investment Programme, regarding the Termoelectric power plant Šostanj? I am asking this question precisely because Minister Gasperšič, in his responses to the Home Working Committee in the past, spoke of the Government taking a decision to set up a working group to prepare certain documents in conjunction with Block 6. At that time, he also discussed the need for maximum involvement and the possibility of further damage that would occur if the risks associated with the project were not sufficiently managed. At that time, he also mentioned that one move – I am talking about 2014 – had already been made. He mentioned that there was a change in the management of Thermoelectric 6 at the time. From this point of view, I also ask: Is the last exchange at the Termoelectrica Šostanj related to the implementation of this Decision and the management of these risks? Because since 2012, it's been the fourth director. I think this way we'll have a hard time handling all the risks at the Chestnut power plant. This is also clearly one of the measures recorded in the Magnetogram from the Committee and I would also like the Minister's comment in this connection. But above all, I'm interested in: Is NIP 6 confirmed and this is a document with which we can operate in our discussions? Is the document on the management of these risks already obtained and held by the Ministry?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u135	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Peter Gaspersic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u136	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Mr Daniel Krivec, Commissioner, thank you too for the question raised. Your questions mainly or mainly concern management issues, which are primarily the responsibility of the Slovenian State Holding and through it also the Ministry of Finance or then the Government as a final-stage assembly. The Ministry of Infrastructure then regulates these technical issues relating to energy issues and in this role our Ministry also cooperates with the Ministry of Finance. But since you've asked a question about certain documents, I'll try my best to answer. At the Ministry of Infrastructure, we received long-term business projections from HSE, both for HSE and for the whole – these long-term projections relate to the period 2015-2030 – as well as long-term business projections of individual companies, namely HSE and TEŠ, also for the same period 2015-2030. These business projections were adopted by the management bodies in HSE and their content was also made known to SDH. The projections were made on the basis of a baseline review and a set of envisaged business measures to be carried out in HSE, TEŠ and Premožnik Velenje during the period until 2020 in order to ensure a smooth operation that will enable TEŠ to fulfil its obligations. The HSE and TES leaders presented these long-term projections to us at a meeting held at the Ministry of Finance. We also received the so-called NIP 6, which was previously coordinated between the management bodies of companies within the HSE group. We received this document and also reviewed it at the Ministry in terms of the fulfilment of the commitments made in the guarantee law and also in the contract. In short, the commitments made by TEŠ. In doing so, we found that the commitments made by TEŠ were breached when the guarantee was issued. These are commitments we know about value, about the price of coal and so on. As a result of the breach, a 600-megawatt substitution block project in TES was also subject to penalties under the Treaty on the regulation of relations. The NIP 6 document is available and can be forwarded to the National Assembly if it has not been transmitted to you otherwise. As far as the issue of TES’s replacements is concerned, I would not comment here on whether this is now in the role of solving the problem and ensuring a successful business. I certainly hope so, and I hope so. It is, however, all the responsibility associated with this to the management of a company which also has its own rules and codes, which persons are competent and qualified to perform these leading functions in society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr. Daniel Krivec, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u138	Thank you, Minister, for the first part of the answer. However, I did not receive an answer as to whether NIP 6 was confirmed on the competent authorities – TEC, HSE and others; whether it was verified. I must say that we do not have the NIP 6 with us, but we did have all the previous NIPs that were actually confirmed on these bodies. Still, I expect we can get this document. However, there was also a joint meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space, where some of the decisions were taken which required the Ministry to provide us with certain reports in connection with HSE subsidiaries; with the long-term sustainable operation of the Drava Power Plants, the Societal Power Plants and other subsidiaries in relation to HSE. Of course, everything in connection with risk management in block 6 project. At that time, the committees were also invited to report to us by the end of the year on the possible planned regulation of energy pillars under the energy concept; of course, also in this connection, on all projects related to this sustainability of Block 6 and investment. You have already mentioned the violation of this guarantee contract and also the replacement in this management post. As I read to you, in one of the committee's magnetograms, you yourself mentioned that certain moves are also related to changing the management of TES. That is why I have also asked this question. While you say that this is a matter of management or a supervisory council, I believe that, given that the country is practically 100 % owner, it must still have an attitude towards such replacements, as you confirmed by your debate on the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u139	Thank you very much. In order to complete my reply, I give the floor to the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Peter Gasperšić, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u140	Thank you for your word. Document NIP 6 was adopted and confirmed on all HSE bodies, including the Supervisory Board, according to our information. This is the last final document we've been briefed on. As far as other commitments and sustainability reporting are concerned, I do not currently have information that any reports are ongoing. However, we will verify this and also properly implement these reports if these deadlines are now up. As far as substitutions are concerned, our view is that this is in the competence and responsibility of the administration, which has also carried out these moves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mrs Ljudmila Novak will ask the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Maji Makovec Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u142	Dear Minister, Minister, colleague and colleague! A good year has passed since the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, which in the assessment procedure decided that the first sentence of Article 86(2) of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education in work relating to publicly applicable primary education programmes is inconsistent with the Constitution. The Constitutional Court has provided that the Consulate of the State must abolish the constitutionality established within one year of the publication of this Decision in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. More simply, according to the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, it is not right that different schools implementing the publicly applicable primary school programme are not financed in the same proportion and the programme is not financed by 100 %. I want to know: In what way and when will you propose to the National Assembly a legal solution that will eliminate this unconstitutional situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u143	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič to give an answer; please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u144	Madam President, I thank you for your question! Private schools implementing the public programme shall be understood as schools rich in school space in accordance with the Constitution and the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education. Their programmes represent a content and software complement to school space, including selection. With the adoption of legislation in 1996, schools that had already remained since then were also systematically placed in the education and training system of the Republic of Slovenia. Three more primary and three secondary schools and more kindergartens were established following this legislative supplement. Many of the social changes that have taken place in recent years have also begun to update the issue of the relationship between public and private education in the international area – not only in us but also in the wider world. However, not only in terms of the implementation of the basic mission, in particular the objectives of education and education, but mainly of quality; that is, comparability, feasibility and, above all, social change. That there are more and more open issues is also evidence of international studies that have taken place over the last 10 years, such as the OECD 2012 study, which is part of the PISA or OECD comparative studies, which are also being continuously accepted in Slovenia. This points to changes in the social environment and also to other dimensions to be taken into account in analysing the area under consideration, particularly in terms of tradition, the development of individual school systems and the various factors affecting the placement of education itself in national education systems; this is private work and especially recent definitions. It is not only a matter of funding, as the decision has also opened up and has also given its opinion or direction, but we are also talking about programmes – who actually owns the programme, how this programme arises, what are the material or other conditions, such as ownership of premises, and of course other factors. Not only those who link public or private funding. Also a recent study of Education at this time, we are talking about the so-called Education at a Glance, has raised questions about accessibility, quality, the right to choose and justice throughout the education system. We are not talking about individual countries, but comparatively in Europe and beyond. In this spirit, our White Paper has also reflected, or various authors have given thought to, this aspect and include reflections in both private and public terms. Another very important direction has emerged recently, and this is the Unesc Declaration, where we all endorsed the concept of education 2020-2030, which again calls for these reflections, i.e. the comprehensive regulation of issues, accessibility, the right to choose, diversity and, on the other hand, the enrichment of school space with quality and standardly guaranteed implementation. So we are not just looking at this part in a financial, concrete way. In addressing the financing issues of private schools that already exist and have proven their quality and also operate in the spirit of standards that are comparable at this time, we also want to link other issues that relate to possible arrivals or possible establishment of new private schools such as: the adoption of programmes, the implementation of programmes, the definition of quality assurance in the implementation of programmes – this is, of course, one of the key parts that these studies indicate, which I have previously defined; the registration and the provision of personnel and material or other conditions. And the proposals for this more comprehensive regime, i.e. respect for the constitutional decision and, of course, broader reflection on how in these social processes, changes in social perceptions and actual developments – let us also take on migration flows, which now also open up a new dimension in education – to prepare a comprehensive proposal in the coming months and by mid-2016 to also implement the so-called Zofko-B (ZOFVI-B) process, which will address other types of issues.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u145	Mrs. Ludmila Novak, you have the floor to request a reply, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u146	In Slovenia, we have three private primary schools, i.e. 0.7%; and they certainly cannot endanger public education, as we hear several times the emphasis of some. And we can say that these schools have proved to be of good quality, with regard to training programs, and also with their parents. Therefore, it is more than justified for the state to pay the programme, i.e. the publicly applicable primary school programme, because we know that primary school is compulsory. And this funding is for salaries, teacher benefits, material costs for the implementation of the programme; it is not about investments, investment maintenance, new investments and equipment. Whatever we look at, the country has profits or less education costs if such private primary schools operate and are also of quality. Parents also have a greater choice, including competitiveness; of course, we must be careful in the future that no one will have such requirements for compulsory primary education contrary to our culture, ethics, principles and so on. I also ask, given that this decision is obviously not to be implemented within one year: Will you also provide the financial resources for back-up? Because you say that you will not put a new proposal into the procedure until next year, or you will provide funds back, because we know that this is about €300,000 of additional money per year.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u147	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič, to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Of course, we will also examine this part when preparing a more comprehensive proposal, so we are already trying to harmonise this aspect of quality standards, what this means in the end for financial implementation as well; and the comparability of implementation, which I think is a key part of ensuring these standards and implementations. As far as the adoption of a constitutional decision is concerned, we know that we have just one of the 2011 constitutional decisions in our department, which has never been implemented; although there have been many attempts to draw up legislation. Therefore, we will also identify ourselves on this issue of funding in accordance with the legal standards and requirements arising from the decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mrs Ludmila Novak, you have the floor to request that the next meeting of the National Assembly discuss the answer to your question.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u150	Yeah, I thought I'd make that request the whole time. But for now, I will say that I believe in your word, and because we know that we will be discussing this subject in the framework of the legislative proposal in a short time, so I will not make this request. For now, I believe in your word, and I hope you'll justify my trust.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u151	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Marko Pogačnik, who will ask a question from the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Maramor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u152	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister! I would like to ask you a question about the shares of the Sava Reinsurance Company, which are owned by the New Maribor Credit Bank. In the last week, the Finance Officer wrote that the Republic of Slovenia intends to buy a slightly over 2% share of the Sava Reinsurance Company from the New Credit Bank. I want to know: Does that information hold? Does it keep in mind that the purchase, which at about today’s market price, is expected to be worth little more than €5 million, is actually paid from the budget? What are the reasons, and why is the State considering buying this share?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u153	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister of Finance, Dr. Dusan Marble, to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Sava RE or Sava d.d. Reinsurance is in line with the Country Capital Investment Management Strategy, as we know, classified as a significant investment, which means that the State must maintain 25% plus one share in it. In addition, the strategy provides that this investment is subject to the condition of the dispersion of ownership or that SDH must, in this case, ensure that the conditions of dispersal ownership of private owners are met, up to the amount of the total share of the country's capital investments. There's only so much to know. All management entitlements linked to a specific company shall be carried out by the Slovenian State holding company, which shall take into account the guidelines set out in the Decision on the State-owned Capital Investment Management Strategy. In addition, the annual investment management plan and the principle of economic efficiency in any investment acquisition or disposal. Since the Sava Stock Exchange is listed on the stock exchange, I can't provide any more information. I just can't answer that question.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u155	Mag. Marko Pogačnik, you have a request to complete your response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u156	Thank you. New Credit Bank Maribor is supposed to sell this 2% share of these shares. The Finance Officer wrote a lot of articles about this. It would be a personal surprise to me, too, if that information is true. It holds, in particular, that this purchase is to be made from the budget by the State. We know that SDH already owns or owns 25% plus one share of Sava or Sava RE. Sava RE is also defined as an important investment in the State Asset Management Strategy. I personally see no valid reason to increase my share of this company. It was also promised in 2013 that the stock of this company would be listed on the market and that preparation for sale would start gradually. I mean, the Minister-in-Charge that this EUR 5 million would be if we decided on this purchase, the actual question of the meaning and the usefulness of spending tax or budgetary money. Otherwise, the ownership structure would have been given 24% to defend certain statutory thresholds or similar. And at a certain point, it would be a surprise. To refer to this information that you just gave me, it seems to me that, on the one hand, it would be funny that you can't answer because there is a stock exchange. I don't think you want to answer that question; I don't know where the reasons are. I am sure that this money would be unconscientious and recklessly used in the event that the state would really choose to do so. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u157	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Dr. Dusan Marble's Minister of Finance to complete the answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u158	Not that I don't want to, but in the case of this particular issue, I can neither confirm nor deny such information. This would, in accordance with the Market in Financial Instruments Act, be considered to be an illicit supply of internal information and could affect the price. I can't answer you in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Lisec will ask the question of the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u160	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues, nice greeting! As a member of the Education Committee in the past days, I have looked at the coalition contract from your department, which is a more general document, without some binding future and content parts, which is not your fault, as you are the fourth Minister of Education in this government; two regular ministers and the President of the Government, who was twice in D.C. When I look at the Government of Slovenia's Standard Work Programme for 2014 and 2015, I hoped that your coming to the Ministry would stop all this work in the past year, and also this year I have had some acceleration. Unfortunately, I note that you have adopted one important law that we will adopt at this meeting of the National Assembly, and unfortunately all the rest – at least according to my information – I hope to receive different answers today – stands. If we look at these normative programs, they are: the Sports Act, the Higher Education Act, the Law on Research and Development Activities, the Law on High Schools. As colleague Novak said before, we have a decision of the Constitutional Court of December of last year saying that we need to equalise the 100 per cent funding of primary private and public programmes. In short, work is enough not only on your department, you are also involved in some other laws that need intersectoral coordination; and I also have no feeling that things are moving at a fast pace there. That's why I want to know: How many employees are in your ministry? Where and what are the main reasons for not accepting certain important laws? When can we expect substantive decisions on individual laws, such as whether to adopt or adopt the Higher Education Act separately and the Law on Research? When and what laws can we expect in 2016, if we already know that in 2015 two thirds of the laws will not be seen in the National Assembly? And the key question that I repeat in other departments is: In your opinion, what is the responsibility of officials to carry out their duties conscientiously or conscientiously? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u161	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič for an answer; please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u162	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Member, Mr Lisec, I will answer directly to all the laws that have been put forward. Sports Act – 15. 12. There is an expert council on which we will finally agree on some more substantive and technical details. By the end of the year, our colleagues have been tasked with publishing it on e-democracy. You can practically expect it in a few days for public debate. The law or amendment of the Higher Education Act, followed by that earlier decision in 2011, is in preparation. Together with the working group, with all stakeholders and all representatives, they resolved most of the issues related to the transition to institutional accreditation and internationalisation. There are also open issues in the area of financing, namely the visa for the implementation of the Constitutional Decision. We also coordinate this part until the end of December and the first days of January. We expect to round up the novelties in the first half of 2016. However, we would like to come up with a proposal which is as clear as possible in a consensus and which respects the constitutional decision in particular. You know, however, that the financial, public financial frameworks are different than they were in 2011, when the constitutional decision was defined. The Law on Research and Development Activities – for the first time in these days a working group is meeting, the draft law is being prepared by the Ministry, and will be coordinated again in a segmental manner, in particular in the preparation of previous proposals for laws. On e-democracy, however, you already have ZOFVI in that part that touches on all the decisions of the Committee that have been adopted in the last period, in particular on the areas of violence, criminal work and the participation of teachers or teachers in these proceedings; on the other hand, on the arrangements for records and surveys. This is crucial that we can continue to adequately prepare and implement all educational processes in the next school year. However, the second part of the ZOFVI is being prepared, this is ZOFVI-B in our department, which will address what I have already explained, as far as the constitutional decision is concerned: public-private appointment of directors and working time. These are three key areas that are not easy to regulate and also need a broader view, as well as a broader consensus on how to put the last two content into the legislative framework in a prudent, gradual and at the same time calmed way. What follows is the scope of the Law on the Implementation of International Programmes in Education and Education. You'll find that on e-democracy, too. This is a rare case in Europe. Unfortunately, in Slovenia we do not have a formal legal framework. In fact, we regulate what is going on and at the same time we give jurisdiction, we call it the international mirror of Slovenia; also in the field of education or the adoption of programmes which are already accredited abroad or which have some appropriate comparability by quality. As regards the area of information work, where this is not a legislative part, this is one of the key documents, this is Slovenia's digital strategy, including cybersecurity. This part is also in coordination with DG Connect, i.e. European work, which is also one of the most important development documents covered by this ministry. It is also a number of other emerging areas that are either regulated by the rules or regulated by areas that touch on the implementation of laws that have been adopted previously. If you remember, in July we also accepted the amendment to ZOFVI in the area of 20, 30, 40. It is a potential opportunity for schools to include appropriate teaching staff in a way that makes it easier to implement additional areas such as the enlarged programme. So much for a summary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomaž Lisec, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u164	Thank you. I really hope that the Law on Sport, the Law on Higher Education and the Law on Research and Development will be before us before the end of June, because we probably both know that the issue of financing higher education begins on 1 September and 1 October. While it is up to you to provide funds in budgets already in actual budgets, although here I have a feeling when I was looking at the 2016 budget, I am very afraid that these laws will not enter into force with 1. Is There a God Who Cares About You? 9 and 1. Ten. 2012 [[?]] Because I don't believe you have the resources in the budget for these laws. I am particularly interested in the Law on Research and the Law on Higher Education: How does your schedule follow the financial structure, that is, the budget of your ministry? Are you preparing any other laws in 2016? According to my information, there is an urgent need for amendments to the Law on High Schools. The point that we are very interested in in the SDS Group – the Law on Vocational and Professional Education and the Law on the Guidance of Children with Special Needs. I expect one specific year 2016 because I want you to speed up your affairs, if possible also reorganise the ministry and, respectfully, finally take decisions. As I said before, the more you talk to the stakeholders, the more you will be each other; which is probably not the intention of a good minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u165	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr. Maja Makovec Brenčič to complete the answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u166	Thank you very much. I did not mention the other proposed laws on the normative programme. However, you have mentioned them yourself, especially those relating to vocational education. There's a law on apprenticeship in preparation. I must explain that working groups, including in relation to the economy, with all stakeholders involved, also the parliamentary groups, are acting on the basis of the preparations we have announced in this Parliament. We will stick to the timeline, because this is also crucial for the development of economic integration and education. As for ZVis, innovations and the expected budget, however, the situation is that for the first time we have ensured for a long time that we are raising funding in the field of science and higher education through Index 106. This is the first sign of a upward trend, and we are also following, practically indirectly, in relation to comparable macroeconomic criteria, not directly, because the frameworks were, of course, slightly different in 2011, the growth of this sector, as it should have already been. I think that we are also giving the right sign that, indirectly, despite the fact that the constitutional decision has not yet been translated into law, we are already following the actual stability and development of this sector in particular. This is the first of these forecasts recently, and I can also say that the stakeholders have taken this very constructively.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Hanžek will ask the question of the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Dear Minister! We have learned from the media what Roma representatives have also confirmed that the financing of the project has expired, together with knowledge that covers Roma kindergartens or incubators throughout Slovenia. Apart from the Municipality of Krško, which has taken over funding for the activities of pre-school education of Roma children to an urgent and limited extent; but not for other activities, it seems that this has actually stopped financing activities that are necessary for our society, not just for the Roma community, but essential and essential. If we listen to Slovenian politics, regardless of color, everyone seems to support Roma integration into Slovenian society as quickly as possible; however, principled attitudes and statements are not enough. Many different obstacles must be removed, which materialize this principled agreement — employment, living conditions, education, and much more. In particular, it is common to all that early inclusion of Roma children in pre-school education is crucial. The abolition of kindergartens for Roma children will certainly not help. Regular funding from the state budget will be needed, not only through occasional projects or through leaving good will and limited funding to the municipality. This is also stated by the Kindergarten Act, which states in its 29th Article that funds are provided from the State budget for kindergarten departments in hospitals, for children with special needs, for Italian and Hungarian language departments and for Roma children's departments. I also point out that the former government's programme of action in 2010-2015 has already promised to transfer Roma pre-school content into a regular budget funding system, but this has not happened so far. That's why I'm asking you: How many Roma preschool children have been deprived of access to preschool education since 1 December 2015? Who is responsible that the tenders did not take into account that the school year expires 31. 8. And the new EU financial perspective is being implemented as from 1 January 2016? Or when and when will the state meet the legal obligations of regular system funding for preschool educational content for Roma children? How is the financing of the others under Article 21 of the Kindergarten Act taking place? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Minister Maja Makovec Brenčič will answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u170	Dear President, honourable Member Hanžek, all of you! Since 2008, the Ministry has funded four projects from the European Social Fund in the area of more effective integration of Roma children and pupils into the education and education system. And the total value was 7 million euros. These funds also financed the work of Roma assistants, the work of educated Roma who provided teaching aid and activities in the Roma settlements themselves. The main purpose of cooperation in this field work is to raise the social and cultural capital of Roma as well as more effective integration with the wider environment. I must also say that these are also projects rewarded by the European Union and also recognised as examples of better Roma inclusion; I am talking about European comparisons. The extent of the resources and thus the activities we have provided in this way are even beyond what we could have in any way within the national budget; and we are therefore continuing with these projects. Let's move on to one. 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on It is true, however, that the interim period of these few months remained open because it was not possible to draw funds from the European Fund or from cohesion resources before that. While this has been our desire and a strong initiative to the Government's Development Service and European Cohesion Policy, in view of the implementation of the perspective, this bridge is in fact necessary. In particular, in one of the cases that you cited and learned from the media, we cooperate with the congregation and will also reach a bridge to this problem. And here I would also like to thank the local communities, which are very involved with us in the integration or activities and implementation of Roma integration processes, especially children, and the integration of these with the wider environment and integration into educational processes. I would like to point out that all these projects are in line with the Strategy for the more effective integration of Roma pupils into the education and education system of the Republic of Slovenia and that this strategy has been complemented in 2011. It is the starting point of 2004 and is also adopted by the General Education Council, which means that the subject matter of the learning process is also provided with professional views. What has been added is the concept of preschool education and the early integration of Roma children. And that is why this project, which has been mentioned, will certainly be one of the key integration and active integration projects not only within the system itself, but also primarily and first within the Roma settlements. This was also the desire of the Roma community to carry out activities in parallel. One part of the activity in their core, daily life and, on the other hand, within a comprehensive school system. Let me also say that, at this point, the financing of all vulnerable groups is not only about Roma but also more broadly. At the moment, specifically where Roma children are involved, there are 6 public kindergartens and 8 wards. Then there are other vulnerable groups, which are also systematically covered by contracts, i.e. integratively, we also finance for the purpose of systematic integration. In this regard, vulnerable groups are also hospital departments and so on, where Roma children can also be involved if this is necessary. Gardens, such as those mentioned in Kerin's Thunder, were designed after the adoption of the strategy for the purpose of implementing integration at several levels. So one is a Romani - Romani way of life, a Roma settlement. Here we have respected, as already mentioned, the community, as well as cooperation with Roma mothers, and on the other hand we have tried to integrate all these lives through so-called incubators. You know that we have financed 8 incubators in the past, and we will continue to do so in the coming period. What I think is crucial in this and, as well as in the Joint Knowledge Project, is greater attention to the more comprehensive integration and strengthening of social and cultural capital; in particular, with a view to making it easier to implement our Regulation, in particular Article 31 of the Rules on Standards for the Conduct of Pre-school Education Activities, which applies exclusively to Roma children.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Mr. Hanžek, please, you have a request to complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your comprehensive response, but what I asked, I didn't get. Everything else I agree with you, you said very well, and these projects are also great and good. Only one thing is if the law states that these activities are financed from the state budget, and we see that in Roma children they are financed from an EU budget that is or is not; this means that this is not in accordance with the Roma. Secondly, you haven't answered me. I'm interested in how the funding goes for the other groups. Now I don't get it wrong that the rest of us should be the same. Are they all equally funded? I think there has to be a systemic source of the state budget. Where the country gets it, it doesn't matter. There can be no funding depending on whether the European Union will give or give a little more or a little less. We'll just leave the kids at home. Just as if we had primary schools, because we will say that roughly – we did not get the money from the European Union, but from September to 31 December children will stay home. I didn't get the number of children left without access to preschool education. Even if you don't tell me how many kids are left, it's no problem. That's all I want to know. Do you think in government or in your ministry, perhaps in connection with the Ministry of Labour, Family and Equal Opportunities, about how to resolve these issues? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Minister Maja Makovec Brenčič will answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u174	Let me explain. It is both types of funding, it is an integral part and it is a part coming from the European Union. That is why I also identified contractual funding for vulnerable groups, because this was your broader issue. These include already named 6 public kindergartens, where Roma children are included; 9 kindergartens, which have 11 hospital departments organized in regional hospitals. In Garden Vodmat we finance a hospital kindergarten, which also works within the University Clinical Centre. We have 7 contracts with kindergartens involving children of both nationalities. These are four bilingual kindergartens and three kindergartens for members of the Italian national community. This is the part that is a systemic part, and we complement this part with European resources. I agree that the project may or may not be; but believe it, when we are planning a policy to draw on the financial resources of the new perspective, we have the advantage of particularly vulnerable groups. This is also a European strategy, and our strategy also follows the direction of the strategy itself, which we have already completed in 2011; probably to the greatest extent in the field of education or the inclusion of children and also Roma. We are not just talking about kindergarten work, we are also talking about the work of integration to the highest level of higher education. Even with those results, we can be satisfied that there are more and more Roma children, even those who wish to join the final diploma, i.e. higher education. This information strengthens the behaviour that we have these systemic projects on the one hand and integrated funding on the other hand as a whole. While we see this as a comprehensive development system, we will continue to do so very intensively. However, we are also doing very well and working together with the Office which is responsible for the implementation of this strategy. I can say that from the point of view of education, we also work with the Roma community in a very nice, constructive and also with initiatives coming from local backgrounds. And I think that this is the right way to find out where we can help better, even more effectively with certain instruments. However, it is a broader system of social and cultural capital, integration, integration, which cannot always happen overnight. So the combination of integrated and European resources, as well as most European countries, does so.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Šircelj will ask the Foreign Minister Karl Viktor Erjavac a question. I would like to ask you to define yourself in response for the Minister's excused absence. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u176	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I ask Minister Erjavac, Minister for Foreign Affairs: What is the role of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and thus the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in responding to questions relating to the current situation in the European Union and Europe in general? On the one hand, we are witnessing the migration crisis, and here we can see that the European Union has not yet fully resolved it. The question is, does it work? On the other hand, we also have a turbulent situation in the area of membership in the European Union. While the European Union, or at least some of its visible representatives, ruled out one country from the European Union six months ago, if it does not take financial measures, it was Greece; on the other hand today we have Great Britain or the United Kingdom preparing for a referendum on whether or not it will still be a member of the European Union. On the third hand, we have security problems mainly with regard to terrorism, which occurred in the most brutal form before the time in Paris. Also, threats in other countries are not negligible. And in the face of all the problems that the European Union has, on the one hand, are the idea of a mini-schengo; on the other hand, of amending the Constitution on the European Union; on the third hand, of how to keep the European Union as it is today. Since many meetings are taking place at different levels in Europe, I am interested in the strategy, vision, views of Slovenia on these issues, especially from the perspective of Slovenia retaining the right place in Europe and the right place in the European Union. In particular, so that, for the first time, Slovenians and Slovenes know where this government is headed and, for the second time, that security and security are ensured. That is why I am asking the Minister for Foreign Affairs about this question and I would like to ask for a written answer in this regard.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert will ask the Minister of Justice mags a question. Goran Klemenčič; please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u178	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister! The Minister's duties include the so-called supervisory function either over the judicial administration or over the conduct of the state prosecutor's office, the functioning of the courts. In the past, when you were President of the Anti-Corruption Commission, you had a lot to say on a number of occasions about unacceptable delays in procedures and related transparency. Let's see what the reality is. The authorities, or their agents, who are essentially most called to respect the Constitution and the law, are in violation of this and no one takes responsibility for it. And some specifics. In accordance with the law, the Attorney General must send a joint annual report to the National Assembly each year. This is supposed to be in the National Assembly no later than April 15th. The document is also very important in terms of work efficiency analysis. The state prosecutor has been in breach of this legal provision almost regularly; this year we only received a partial report in due time, the rest later. So it was not until December, that is now, at the end of the year, when a new report would practically be on the table, that we considered the report on the work of the State Prosecutor's Office for 2014. The same was true of the Council of Justice when it had a legal function to draw up a report on the effectiveness and effectiveness of the courts. Thus, the then President of the Council of Justice, Dr. Miro Cerar, broke the law because he did not submit these reports in due time. This year’s report also reached the National Assembly on the last day, just before the deadline, which also shows that it is not exactly a good organization or a willingness to get this report in time. That's why I'm asking you: What, in particular, will you do to ensure that the leaders of such important bodies do not act in authority, violate legislation and act completely irresponsiblely to the legislative branch of power? Even more so because these are areas where these same people demand respect and sanction violations. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u179	Thank you very much. The Minister of Magic will answer. Goran Klemenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u180	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear Ambassador Anja Bah Žibert, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Thank you for asking. I also have to tell the public and the others that I'm glad you put it on me. The question, as foretold, is so loose and wide that I must say that until the last moment I was on the thorns, what are you going to ask me? Your written question was: I will ask the Minister responsible for the field of justice about compliance with the time limits laid down in the laws on justice. It's about 9,000 over the thumb. And I know from your previous discussions that you are very respectful of my expertise, but for 9,000 years I cannot say. Therefore, I will be happy, if you so request, to provide further clarifications in writing as well; at present I can only try to answer some of your questions from my head, as I say, at home. I think that some of the hands were exceeded, they were not exceeded in the way that the side of the bell should have been; because the reasons were also given for the hands, although all together should strive to be absolutely respected. In particular, in the State Prosecutor's Office's report, you can't have an opinion here that, say, you've been pleased or unhappy with him. Also, the Ministry, as Minister of the State Prosecutor's Council, said that I am not fully satisfied with the initial draft report, so it was only, as you said, that the State Prosecutor's Office dealt with it last week. The committee responsible, acting unanimously on the initiative of the coalition and in cooperation with the opposition, requested that the report be completed. It is also true that the State Prosecutor's Office has major problems with the information system and with the preparation of the report. I am pleased, however, that I can also use this opportunity for the first time since the adoption of the Law on State Prosecutor's Office, which was adopted many years ago, under my ministry next week, published in the Official Journal the Rules on Annual Reports and on Work Plans, which has long been prescribed by legislation; no minister has adopted it so far. This will specify more precisely what form of the annual report should be, just so that it is better communicated to both Members and Members of the general public and, of course, to the Ministry of Justice. As far as the judiciary is concerned, I think the last report prepared by the Supreme Court was, I don't think, I know that it was attached to time, in time periods and was also quite quality in terms of analysis and so on. Whether we are satisfied with the content or not is another question. But just a report, I think we agreed here both on the representatives of the executive branch of power, as well as on the opposition and position in terms of the fact of the report itself. I think it was positively accepted, because it was quite a message and detailed. Here, too, I would like to say that for the first time before the end of this year, we will adopt a special rule on so-called time-standards, which have already been re-established, I think that for 4 years the Law on Courts, as well as no minister, including the ministers of previous governments, including your governments, have adopted such a rule. It is about setting time standards for how long a single phase of different procedures from criminal, unfair, economic and so on should last. These time standards – we are currently coordinating them with the Supreme Court – will also be published publicly and every citizen of the Republic of Slovenia will have the opportunity, in essence, to know what the average duration is, when he will receive an invitation to court for the first time, if the hearing is cancelled, when he can expect a second and so on on on average. This will be the first time in the Republic of Slovenia that a criterion will also be effective in the work of the courts, in terms of this quantitative work. As with the Council of Justice, I don't know, it happened many years ago. I agree, I absolutely agree with that, and I know whether or not I expect you to remind me, in addition, that I, as President of the KPK, have been late reporting to the National Assembly. I agree that these things need to be taken seriously, but reports always come and I am also pleased that, unlike in recent years, the National Assembly is now regularly considering. I recall a mandate between 2004 and 2008, when civil society had to go around Parliament and read the Ombudsman's reports because the National Assembly had not considered it for several years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, do you request a supplement to your answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u182	Thank you very much. By your old habit, you spoke again about other things and some other governments. I asked you about your work. Once again, the prosecution has not prepared a report in time. The fact that they have problems with the information system has already been heard for the previous year's report, now that is the same and I just don't believe it anymore. As far as the court's report is concerned, look at the last day. If what you said in the past about transparency and importance is acceptable to you, then you have double criteria. But Minister, among these violators you have yourself, and I will tell you, not what you thought I was going to say, what is already a well-known story, is the question of implementing the Mutuality Act. In fact, this law provides that the report should be sent twice a year to the National Assembly. Twice a year. Under your authority, according to your ministry, you did it for the first time, a few days ago. The worst and most unacceptable thing is that you wrote in your explanation for the delay that this part of the law is pointless to represent an administrative obstacle. Now, take the role of a citizen. Does this mean that from now on every citizen, something in the law will not seem wise and worthwhile to him, simply says that it is an administrative obstacle and that it is unwise? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u183	Thank you very much. The Minister of Magic will answer. Goran Klemenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u184	Thank you very much. No, Madam, that I have spoken of everything else, I have answered your question first, and then I have also asked your question in the context of other governments. But as for the specific question that you have asked, it is the following: because you have not given me an answer in advance, I will try to answer it. The Mutuality Act, see the last report. The law states that the Ministry of Justice, on behalf of the Government or the Government, must report to the National Assembly twice a year. The last report, I think, ended at the end of 2012. At the end of 2012, I don't remember being a minister since 1. 1. 2013, I don't remember. But I became this a while ago, and I was after two ministers, including one, I was the same in Janševa and the Bratuška Vlada, who then sent the report again. As soon as we realized we were obliged to send him, we sent him. So in 1 year we sent instead one report, and two years ago there was no reporting at all. We sent the report just because there was no reporting in the past, we covered in this report a period from 1. 1. 2013 or something. As I say, I will gladly answer you in writing. However, I remember precisely, because the Secretary of State has warned me about this, it is not true that we have excused this with the fact that this provision makes no sense. That wasn't in the government's files, so you said on the board when it was discussed. In the interest of complete transparency, however, we have written down in the Government's works: this is a law that was passed in 1990, a law that was passed when Slovenia joined the European Union and we are all afraid that foreigners will pick up all the Slovenian land. Remember the Spanish compromise and the thorny path of the then minister, I apologize again for taking a step back, however, Minister Peterlet and so on. We were all afraid of what would happen, and so it was stipulated that the National Assembly should know twice a year how much foreign land had been purchased in Slovenia. At the moment we entered the EU, at the time we entered the EU, this law became irrelevant for EU citizens, and you have also received a report that is extremely short, even though it relates to a few years, and it is pointless, in our opinion, that we are burdening the National Assembly with such bureaucracy because several figures are reported. This was the law that was passed before the entry into the European Union. Of course, the National Assembly will decide on this, we just wrote, as it were, that, by no means, we did not report it because it was pointless, but because it was actually kind of rude for the State Assembly to burden it with such reports. As long as that is true, we will respect that absolutely. And as soon as I realized that this was not respected, we also gave you the report. As it is said, however, the last report was sent at the end of 2012.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, you are requesting a debate in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u186	Thank you very much. The minister won't hold. The last report was considered at the end of 2013 and was, of course, for 2012. You have performed in 2014, since then you could have practically a third report. So that your answer, of course, does not drink water and precisely because it does not drink water or drink many other statements, I suggest that the violations of the terms of marriage be discussed in this National Assembly. And one more thing, Minister, it has been written that the matter is pointless and represents an unnecessary administrative burden and therefore there is going to be a change of law. However, the law is still in force and no one in this country can pre-amend it, interpret it as meaningless and unnecessary. Otherwise, you let citizens and citizens know, don't respect the laws, because they're going to change that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Mr Bojan Podkrodšek will ask the Minister of Finance Dr Dusan Maramor and Minister of Public Administration Boris Koprivnikar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u188	Dear Vice President, thank you for your words. Honourable Minister of Finance and Public Administration, colleagues and colleagues! Of course, we live at a time when we adopted the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016 and 2017 a good week ago. We live at a time when, of course, all the mayors are dissatisfied with the principal who was assigned to them, of course, to all Slovene municipalities. We live in a time when everything is wrong in health. We are living at a time when more institutions are dissatisfied, especially with a financial cake that has been cut off by these two budgets. Of course, I have our Slovenian police in mind. However, Minister, I think that a few months ago I asked a question to the well-respected Minister of Public Administration about the measures, where the state or government, the whole ministry, has also looked on the other side, where it can, in its own words, falter. We know that we have many agencies in Slovenia, which I agree for sure, this is my assessment, they have no real purpose, and they are spending money. In Slovenia, we have many buildings owned by the state and we have large rents in private-owned buildings. Of course, through this budget of these two years we find that there will be fewer investments, even in the past there have been fewer investments, services are still everywhere the same. That's what I'm talking about. I'm talking about some department. I'm talking about the services that are under this department. Therefore, the distinguished Minister of Finance and Public Administration in the Republic of Slovenia, I ask you about the measures you have foreseen so far, or the results of these measures, in particular the measures you foresee in the future. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Dr. Dusan Maramor, Minister of Finance, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u190	Thank you very much, honourable Member Mr Bojan Podkoršek. I would like to reiterate what I have already repeated as one of the challenges in adopting the budget, where I have said that the wishes and demands of individual users of the budget are far beyond what is possible in a given situation. With regard to capabilities, of course, we must continue to take measures, despite better economic forecasts, which reduce the expenditure of the country's budgets, because we need to address the structural deficit, the deficit by 2020, first, zero. In relation to this objective, a state budget was also planned, reducing expenditure by 3.3% in 2016 compared to 2015, and a total of the budgets of the State sector by half a percentage from 18.3 to 18.2 billion euros. At the same time, the share of the gross domestic product of the state budget expenditure is decreasing from 25.6 to 23.9 % and for the whole public sector from 47.7 to 45.8 %. This is the direction now where spending is falling, the key expenditure is wages. With regard to salaries, 2016 was relatively complex and we agreed on measures in the area of salaries and other expenditure for employees, as this had to be regulated in order to terminate the measures already in force. We have endeavoured to reach a new agreement in the negotiations with the trade unions on labour costs, which would allow adequate retention of growth in this area. Of course, if this were not the case, the increase in labour costs would be around 10% for the whole public sector in 2016. The agreement reached was 3.47% increase in wage and labour costs, as it was slightly higher than planned in the budget. Approximately 2.8% of growth was planned, a difference of 0.67% of labour cost resources will be covered by users in their financial plans with sound and rational action in all areas. In addition to the measures in the field of labour costs, the Government has taken measures to increase the efficiency and organisation of the implementation of the procurement procedures and other measures to be discussed by Minister Koprivnikar. All these measures together have led to this large picture of a reduction in expenditure, which is not just a country's budget, including individual other parts of public treasury for 2016. Now I'd just like to ask Minister Koprivnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u191	Here you go, Mr. Boris Koprivnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u192	Dear Member, in a hundred seconds, it is difficult for me to tell you what this Government has done to reduce costs. I'll just try to count it. Reverse auctions have been introduced, 7 % savings. Electronic public procurement. Assembling public procurement both in health care and in other areas and spreading them. Training of contracting authorities in this area and, of course, the adoption of a new law which enters into force with April. We centralise information technology, infrastructure, financial and human resources. Here we expect in three years 20 million additional savings. Just on Sunday night, last night, we launched a state computer cloud on which we will also combine applications and thus reduce costs. We centralise the handling of real property, exactly what you announced, only in 2015 direct savings a million and a half, because we use our own premises to a greater extent and less rentable. We've set up records, we're preparing migration plans. We have placed the authorities in certain locations where they can function more effectively and generate about 1.5 million additional revenues by selling off unnecessary state assets. Finally, we have taken 22 measures, 11 are implemented, 11 are still in progress, and therefore we expect to be able to achieve significantly greater savings in this area as well, a functional analysis is being prepared to measure the efficiency of the public sector and to define a public administration development strategy, which sets out in 9 objectives in a timely manner which will need to be implemented more rationally.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Mr. Bojan Podkoršek, a request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u194	Thank you for your efforts, for your answer. But it's a fact, Mr. Secretary of Finance, that you know that because you're an expert in this field, you can go straight into the details. It is a fact that one indicator, as a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, I imagined when your government was visiting Gorenjska. I do not think that in all history in the Republic of Slovenia it has happened that when the government comes into one region, the mayors will resist it. I've been working on several mandates in the local community. I have to admit, it didn't matter whether she was a left or a right government. When the Prime Minister arrives when ministers arrive in a region, I think they have been preparing for a week or even more. From this I also come, and I do not blame you both, nor have they established some services that need to be combed during this period, I do not blame you for the situation as a whole today, but the fact is, I am interested, the state is in debt of over 30 billion. The country pays over a million euros in interest. So, with all these numbers, it actually hangs on our economy. But I am concerned, so I would sincerely like, of course, to commend all the efforts that have been made in this direction, but it is likely that much will have to be done in this area, to put a lot of effort and time into making these results significantly different. I'm thinking about our police again. I am of the opinion that there are many segments, and there are items in the state budget that could be reduced, and we give them to our beloved police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Is he going to answer? Mr. Boris Koprivnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u196	We just agreed that I would try to answer that. You yourself said that all of this is being passed on to the economy, and at the same time in the same breath, let us also say that public expenditure should be increased. And the task of the government, I must say, is very difficult, is to try to balance between these public expenditure in some way, because it is too often publicly said that the role of the government is not to give or take, but to allocate what is actually possible in terms of taxes and other contributions. With regard to the participation of the mayors at the meeting in Gorenjska, I am very sorry that the mayors of this meeting did not attend. At the same time, it has given us this opportunity to be able, with some mayors, especially in Krańsk, to define precisely the forms of cooperation that will be good both for the congregation and for the country. And let me say that it is always difficult to listen when we say that there are probably some areas from which it could be taken to give those that are currently considered more necessary. But no one actually calls these areas. And believe me, on the government side, both when preparing the budget and each individual decision very carefully, we ask very profoundly where something can be rationalised, I have previously provided you with some of this information, and where something can be taken. You mentioned the agencies, this year's contract arrangements, agency property arrangements, a functional analysis was prepared, and we will ask ourselves for each other, and we have already asked the ministries in question whether there is an urgent need, but the agencies are 16 and there are not a lot of them, so this is one of the smaller areas. As for police officers, nurses, soldiers, public servants, teachers, and so on, I return to the thesis that it is a difficult task for the government to try to balance the contribution for these systems, all of which are crucial in a way that also on the basis of data not the street, but on the basis of data it identifies where those anomalies may be, those injustices that need to be addressed also through changed funding methods. For local communities, however, this government has offered intensive dialogue and concrete measures that can and already reduce the cost of local community work, but it is also in the mayors, in local communities, that these offered tools, such as public procurement, such as the free use of applications provided by the State, such as the establishment of the defence, which it has given the opportunity to use by local communities. Because if you look at how public finances have moved over the past years, it is very easy to see the fact that the state budget has fallen by 8%, but the budgets of local communities have also increased by 9%, including the number of employees. This also indicates, somewhere, that we must all rationalise our actions together and that this commitment is also necessary in terms of national competitiveness.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Mr. Podkoršek, do you request a debate in the National Assembly? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u198	Yeah, thanks again for the word. First of all, thank you both to the Ministers for their response. Since this question seems extremely important to me for the further development of the Republic of Slovenia, I propose to the National Assembly to place it on its agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordiš will ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Karl Viktor Erjavac. Given Mr Karl's absence, I ask that you also define yourself to the way you reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u200	Thank you for your word, chairman. I would like Mr Karl Erjavac to answer my question at the next regular session. The issue, however, concerns current developments mainly in the Middle East. Following the terrorist attacks on Paris, France asked the members of the European Union for military assistance. According to French Defence Minister Le Drian, France could be helped in two ways; they could either be directly involved in the fighting operations in Syria and Iraq, and this is an approach chosen by Germany, but they could relieve the French of any other intervention and military operation, but this was also decided by our Government, which increased the number of soldiers of the Slovenian Army on the mission in Mali. The countries that have responded to France's call have also said that Slovenia has supported the French bombing of Syria and Iraq, or in a broader sense Western imperialism, and will be responsible for all civilian casualties that have arisen and will be produced. It will also cover possible incidents if I recall in this place the Turkish shooting of a Russian aircraft, a hunting bomber over Syrian territory and in the Syrian airspace. And because of all of this, before the decision to provide military assistance to France, each government should carefully consider the consequences of French attacks and interventionism for the future, both Syria and the Middle East in general. In this context, I should like to recall the consequences of another decision, namely the previous Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Iron Dimitrij Rupl and his signature of the Vilen Declaration. With this statement, Slovenia then supported the attack on Iraq, even before the Americans provided any evidence of weapons of mass destruction. Of course, these evidences later proved to be completely fictitious. The consequences of this reckless aggression and intervention on Iraq are still felt today. In fact, the country of Iraq has decomposed, the Islamic State has risen on its mountainside, and the entire region has fallen into a refugee crisis that is also pouring into Europe. And I firmly believe that Slovenian citizens do not want the government to sign such decisions with a Bianca view of imperialist bickering throughout the region. That's why I'm interested in three from Mr. Erjavac: First time. If the French government presented to him the objectives of its operations in Iraq and Syria? Another time. What groups in Syria will France bomb or support? And for the third time. How will French bombing contribute to peace in Syria and the Middle East? I thank you in advance for the Foreign Minister's response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Mahnic will ask the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Maramor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u202	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Last year, the NATO Summit was held in Wales, where Slovenia, together with other NATO member states, committed that in 2020, due to the changed security situation in the world, namely, the European Union documents and the Union, if we look at them, would say three years ago how we had some tomatoes, how no one can help us, how we were safe in this environment, how there was no crisis and all that, in just two years it changed, they committed themselves to raising all defence spending to 2% of GDP by 2020. Within this, 20% will be earmarked for investment and development. If we now look at the state of our budget, specifically the defence budget, we allocate 0.97% this year. Next year, this figure will be even smaller by 0.03%, so this is going to be 0.94% of GDP. As far as the structure of the defence budget is concerned, however, we are the worst of the 28 Member States of the NATO Union, 5 years from now or 4 years from now, to invest and develop within the defence budget 20%, today we are spending less than 3% and, as I have already said, we are on the tail of countries. On the Defence Committee, we have discussed this several times and come to some conclusions, or I have personally come to some conclusions, that there is no problem at the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces, that there is not even a problem at the Ministry of Defence, that there is not a problem at the Minister itself, but that the problem is obvious at the President of the Government and at the Finance Minister, who clearly considers security or concrete defence and here the Slovenian Army, civil protection as some non-digib. After the last two, three months, we can see that it is far from being so, just to remind us of Prime Minister Cerar's statement to NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg, who visited Slovenia this July: "We will not lower the defence budget next year, it will remain at the same level, that is 0.97%, and then it will rise by 0.04% every year." What's the reality? We know that Slovenia's GDP is higher, although we have nominally increased the defence budget by EUR 5 million, on this account that we have transferred membership to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Ministry of Defence, but this does not count in NATO because they are looking at the percentage of GDP we are earmarking for defence, but it has declined. Mr. Secretary, that's why I'm interested: How will you explain all these matters next year 8 and 9 July at the summit of NATO, which will take place in Warsaw? What did you do last night? Are you going to increase the number? [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Dr. Dushan Marble, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Mahnic, Commissioner for Defence, shared the fate of the financial and economic crisis with the remaining stakeholders over the past period. In fact, it carried a considerable, much greater weight of this financial crisis than other sectors, which also reflected after 2010 in the reduction of defence expenditure. These fell from 1.65% of GDP in 2010 to 0.95% of GDP in 2015. In nominal amounts, this means a reduction from EUR 582 million in 2010 to EUR 367 million in 2015. This is said to be a significant part of the crisis. In the budgets adopted for 2016 and 2017, the trend of falling defence expenditure to a nominal extent is halted. This is reflected directly by the increase in the integral resources of the competent authority to maintain the defence capacity, amounting to EUR 331.7 million in 2016. According to the 2015 rebalancing, the index is 102,41. In doing so, we need to know that the entire state account from 2016 has a 3.31% reduction. In 2017, a good EUR 333 million, the index again 102,81, is higher according to 2015. As a result, the share of the Ministry of Defence's financial plan in relation to the State budget is also increasing. In 2015, the share of the financial plan in the state budget was 3.4 % and in 2016 and 2017 it was 3.65%, as the remaining expenditure is falling. This does not mean an increase in defence expenditure throughout GDP, as you yourself have found, but it does mean a halt to the current downward trend, but it can also provide a good starting point for their growth in the next medium term. In the next medium term, the RS government will also strive to maintain the current trend, i.e. halting the decline in defence expenditure or seeking to increase it gradually in line with national public funding options. You asked what the deal was yesterday that we would take into account the new security situation by 2017 when we were making a budget change for 2017. In doing so, it should be borne in mind that the Republic of Slovenia, as a member of the EU and of the European Monetary Union, is committed to respect common rules in the movement of public finances and in the wider macroeconomic field. In addition to the State budget, public finances rules apply to all other institutional units classified in the State sector. As you know, we've just said that we're going to eliminate the structural deficit in five years, and of course we have limitations here. All the changes that are, are at the border, is that if we have now stopped the nominal downturn and started with the nominal increase to the defence budget, of course now there is a new upward trend and we will certainly be here to the maximum possible, taking into account these commitments that we have at Nat. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Mr. Jan Mahnic, if you would like to complete your answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u206	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Minister, all the numbers you've listed for me, we know them practically if we just open up the budget. However, you did not answer my question about what you and the Prime Minister will say next year at the NATO Summit in Warsaw, given that the budget has been promised not to fall. And once again, NATO doesn't nominally count, and even in NATO, they know that there's five million, as much as you've raised the defense budget, that you've raised it at the expense of membership fees. Of this, Nato has nothing, of which the Slovenian Army has nothing. And if we look at the 2017 budget and it's going down, I'm speaking nominally. And assuming GDP goes up again, there will be a problem. Last week I hosted here a military attaché, and I was ashamed to be a British colonel, imagine a Slovenian colonel going to the British Parliament and there questioning Members, what do you think you're doing, just taking from Nate, giving nothing back. Tomorrow we are hosting the Montenegrin Defence Minister. You have probably read the articles in connection with Slovenia and NATO in recent weeks. I can honestly tell you, if it was now that then he chooses whether he takes Slovenia among his own species or takes Montenegro, we stand on the line. Because of our promise of specific things, among other things they have been waiting for in NATO since 2006, 2007 to establish this motorized battalion fighting group, we have offered them two, but because you had to use these patriots to destroy Janez Janša, you have also destroyed the Slovenian Army. We have nothing to offer. Go, Mr. Secretary, and see what kind of military equipment there is. Once again, I'm asking: What are your excuses for not raising the defense budget?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Minister Dr. Dusan Maramor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u208	As I was told, the commitment on our part was that it will no longer be reduced nominally, and this was the commitment that the President of the Government made in 2016, which also happens because it increases nominally and increases nominally in 2017. Clearly, the situation has been so severe that the assessment of the military's need to make a defence is not to reduce other parts of the public sector, such as education, health and so on, in times of crisis. Now, of course, the situation is different and for 2017, as I said, when the budget was changed, this was also an agreement yesterday, the defence budget will be improved so that it will grow in the share of GDP.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Mr. Jean Mahnic, do you request a debate at the National Assembly? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u210	Thank you, Vice President. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the National Assembly hold a debate on this subject. When the Minister replied, I quickly looked at RTV, Prime Minister Cerar told Stoltenberg that Slovenia will no longer cut the defence budget in 2016, and every year since 2017 the defence budget will increase by 0.04%. So I doubt that he had in mind the nominal for 2016, but then for the following years he would have a percentage or relative to GDP. Since we all know, once again, then there's a table there and they just see, oh, the country has raised in terms of relations with BD, they're no longer interested, not at all, if we're giving for some membership. We will have to talk in this National Assembly if the request for discussion is supported, if it does not, we will already call the Defence Committee, there is no problem, but we will not invite the Minister of Defence, we will invite the Finance Minister, we will invite the President of the Government, because now there has been a lot of this, and I am also a member of the Plamentary Assembly of NATO, we can also tell the Coalition Members when we go to these summits, what questions we are getting, what kind of visions we are getting. Slovenia has become a purely irrelevant partner of NATO, looking at us here for some political reasons. If this is no longer your priority, we can have a discussion, tell us, somewhere else we see what I know, what new pact is being made, Warsaw or what I know, where you're going, what are not listed. But, you know, don't make any promises, and then we don't make any promises. It's no problem for me if you've decided otherwise, but then say so. Not that, as it is now said, it is such a lack of resources that we cannot even buy basic equipment for all soldiers over the next two years, so as to modernise as much as possible or at least make them all look the same. In the first half of 2016, the need to land the Falcon will be obvious, the end of the government's journey will be the end of the transport of human organs – this project has been praised by the previous minister – not to mention that the obvious things will come so far that in the second half of 2016, we will land the Slovenian Army helicopters, which are old, which are long-term, one after the other. I hope we are aware of what this means, especially in terms of rescue in the Slovenian mountains. But you will bear those burdens, you will have to give answers to the Slovenian public. The Slovenian public sees what the Slovenian Army is like, that they are well-trained, but with the equipment it ends up or under the line, with the financial resources it ends. These are too small and it is high time that we are aware of this situation and raise the defence budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow afternoon in the framework of the vote. Dr. Mr Franz Trček will ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Karl Viktor Erjavac. In view of the absence of the Minister, please also define yourself to the way in which the reply is made. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u212	Thank you for your word, chairman. Respectable others! Minister Erjavec, together with Minister Irena Majcen, forcibly transferred directly the elected member of the leadership of the representative union of Slovenian diplomats, trade union secretary Peter Golob, to another ministry. This somehow got rid of the loud unionist and whistleblower, who publicly warned of clientelism and other irregularities of the MZZ. The Minister argued that relocation was necessary because, I quote, "work needs in the Ministry of Environment and Space", which according to the fact that 700 employees in the Ministry of Environment and Space were employed in the Ministry of Health, it was kind of funny, because he had chosen the clearly disturbing gentleman mentioned earlier. This transfer is not a minor caprice, it is a very serious attack on trade union rights or a violation of fundamental rights of employment, as regulated by, say, the ratified ILO Labour Convention 87, which, on the other hand, stipulates that labour organisations have the right, I quote, 'to freely choose their representatives'. Mr Minister is a lawyer, he worked at the Office of the Ombudsman, he must be aware that you are violating the Conventions means a deliberate violation of fundamental human rights. This government serves capital openly and shows a machete's attitude towards trade unions, but it should stick to at least some basic democratic rules and respect constitutional order. The case was also raised by the advocate of the principle of equality, which he warned in the inquiry, and I quote, "that facts have been given which show suspicion of direct discrimination, victimisation and perhaps also of the initiator's harassment due to political conviction and membership and the operation of the union." He also found suspicion, I quote, "direct discrimination and victimisation of the Union of Slovenian Diplomats". It is also very disturbing to note that the problem, I quote, is "clientistic employment in public administration" and that analyses have found that the same problem in the past was also large in particular at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs itself, specifically at the diplomatic service. That's why I'm asking Mr. Erjavac the question: Why is he bullying a unionist with a whistleblower? What message does the Government of the Republic of Slovenia give to whistleblowers? Instead of doing her duty to protect the complainants, she bullys them herself. I would also like to ask further questions about the non-coordination of the work of diplomatic missions, which is clearly reflected in the statements made by certain ambassadors, for example in Mr. Kacin's statement, the Ambassador to NATO, who of all the accredited ambassadors there, when the background of the Turkish-Russian conflict has not been officially known, is complicated, gives me one of the most striking statements and I hope that Mr. Minister will answer me [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u213	Thank you very much. How would you like to have an answer, Mr Member? Lip. Thank you very much. We are moving on to the second round of questions from Members. Mr Matjaž Hanžek will ask the Minister for the Environment and Space of Mrs Irena Majcen.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, in early October I received your answer to my written question on the same subject. It states that your ministry is extremely well aware of the importance of NGOs operating in the field of the environment. The data of environmental NGOs associated with Plan B for Slovenia network show that in 2013 only 0.07% of all funds allocated to NGOs were received by environmental NGOs. In your written reply, which is partly misleading, you state that in 2016, the Ministry is planning EUR 200 000 for NGOs and EUR 250 000 for 2017 that a public call for co-financing of EUR 200 000 was issued for 2015 and 2016, that the Ministry of Public Administration has €6 million for co-financing of the content networks of all NGOs in the country. In verifying the information, I note that the Ministry of Public Administration has issued a call for environmental NGOs to run for a maximum of EUR 265,000 for a period of four years, that the call for the Ministry of Environment and Space for 2015 and 2016 is still pending and therefore will not receive anything from this address from NGOs this year. The Ministry has not issued other calls for NGOs this year. In Slovenia there are 55 environmental NGOs with public interest status and many other smaller organisations that are also important for environmental and nature protection. The proposed funds do not confirm your claim that your ministry is extremely well aware of the importance and role of NGOs. At the same time, it is clear from your response that you have not responded to the initiative of environmental NGOs through a systematic solution to the problem, which would provide sufficient and predictable funding for a longer period. That's why I'm asking you: When will you approach the systemic long-term resolution of the problem of financing environmental NGOs? How do you respond to Plan B's proposal that 1% of environmental taxes should, in the light of good practices from other countries, be intended to finance the activities of NGOs in the field of environmental and nature protection? What do you plan to do to prevent NGOs from being forced to cease operating in 2016, 2017? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Ms Irena Majcen, Minister for Environment and Space, will reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u216	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members and Members! Mr Hanžek, Commissioner, thank you for the question. As you have stated, in our written reply we have provided an answer which speaks, of course, of course, about the fact that at the Ministry we are familiar with the situation of environmental NGOs, which also presented to us how they imagine this solution. Of course, it follows from their proposals that, for example, by financing the funds earmarked for the Eco-Fund projects, I would say that, at the very high level of these funds, I admit, this situation cannot be resolved. To be aware of how difficult it is to cover all their needs with financial means, it shows that for 2016 and also for 2017, I will say, as the only item we have increased the financial resources by 100%. So for 2016, EUR 200 000 is provided and EUR 250 000 is provided for 2017. I am aware that in recent years these non-governmental environmental organisations have been operating under other systems, they have also received European funding, which will also be possible now, namely, the Ministry of Public Administration has a call for proposals to strengthen the capacity of non-governmental organisations in particular to promote and deliver public services in the period 2015-2019, and of course environmental NGOs will also be able to run for these funds. As has been the case in the past, it will probably be possible to obtain some European funds through their tasks and the work they are doing. In fact, environmental benefits, as you state, or to give a share of environmental benefits to NGOs, are part of an integrated budget or are the revenue of municipalities. There is currently no target item for environmental benefits, so this proposal cannot be operationalised. It is true, however, that we have called for an additional EUR 200 000 under the Climate Fund item, it is an area of awareness and information, and there is now a choice. However, the content areas of awareness-raising, education, training for the transition to a resource-efficient, green and competitive low-carbon society are further related to information on the benefits of climate change mitigation and the practical aspects of the implementation of measures and the promotion of action, information on the new international climate agreement adopted in Paris and awareness and information and education for adaptation to climate change. In fact, there is currently a selection of projects that will meet these conditions and will be allocated financial resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Hanžek, if you please, request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u218	Thank you very much. As I understand from your response, it seems to me that it will not be possible in the future to start with some systemic long-term solution to the problem of environmental NGOs. Here we are talking, as you yourself said, although it was a 100% increase, about 200,000 euros, it is a terrible little in the budget, if we think in the millions that this government, by the way, found for a razor net, which destroys, among other things, the environment, destroys forests, water, rivers, that I am not talking about animals. For the destruction of the environment, in the tens of millions of countries, the country is prepared, but for NGOs that are supposed to worry you, and 200,000 euros will be allocated. I almost don't know what to ask you here because you told me that, at least so I did or fix me, that long-term systemic funding will not be, a percentage of that, because it is an integrated budget, we can't even count. But maybe we could add: If and when do you think about how you would organize to prevent environmental NGOs from starting to operate soon? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Mrs. Irene Maycen, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u220	Thank you. It is true that this selection, which you yourself have highlighted, is still missing from these tendering funds of the Ministry of Public Administration, which speak of the possibility for NGOs, in particular for the promotion and delivery of public services in 2015-2019, to be able to run for these funds as well. It is also true that the Ministry provides part of the resources relating to certain services, such as the rental of premises for these NGOs. But it is true that in the coming years, I can admit that it is not possible to address this issue now, prepare and discuss these taxes, environmental taxes. It is true, however, that it takes more time for us to draw up such a response at the Ministry, especially because of the changes that then touch legislation. In terms of the functioning of these non-governmental environmental organisations, I hope to say that their ability to raise funds is also wider. The organisations themselves are still so far, when I look at the financial source of our ministry, so it was smaller than now, and these NGOs have managed to operate and develop, which means, of course, that in the future, these resources are also needed, which can, of course, be outside the Ministry of Environment and Space system, pump and ensure better or better cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Mr Luka Mesec will ask the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Marble. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u222	Thank you for your word, chairman. Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I'm going to ask you a question about Adria Airways Technics. We now know that on 24 November a contract was concluded for the sale of this company to the Polish company Linetech Holding. The sale was decided by the Slovenian State Holding Company and by the German State Company Fraport, the half-owner of Adria Airways Technika is the Ljubljana Airport, which was privatised last year. Unfortunately, this decision has made it impossible for the internal ransom to be taken over by the employees. In Adria Airways Technika, which has about 200 employees, 150 employees contributed their own funds to the labor buyout. And together with the borrowed funds offered to take over the company for a good EUR 5 million. However, in the sales process, they had no opportunity to improve their offer and their offer was not treated properly. In this case, SDH should protect public interest in order to maintain high professional jobs and knowledge in Slovenia. The SDH investment management strategy also imposes: firstly, to check the possibility of internal redemption, and secondly, to introduce job security and job retention into the sales contract. But unfortunately, we need to find out that SDH has not done his job. Not only did he not verify that he had not treated the offer of workers fairly, but it was even worse that neither the labour council nor the trade unions in the company were officially aware of the sale process. In addition, SDH did not respond to the list of non-financial commitments proposed by the union representatives. This violated the rights of employees under the Law on the participation of workers in management, since the management did not organise consultation with workers. Last week, a representative of the employees on the board of directors resigned because there was an attempt to bully the employee, which is why employees in Adria Airways Technika are already collecting a petition. Under the law on SDH, the Ministry of Finance is a guardian of public interest. However, as Minister, you shall sit at the meetings of the Supervisory Board in order to take care of this public interest. That's why I'm interested in three things: First time. Why was the offer of employees not treated equally? Another time. What guardians in the contract do they have to protect the jobs and development of this company? Third time. Will you examine and sanction violations of the rules that have taken place during the sale process? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Minister Dr. Dusan Maramor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Mr Luka Mesec, honourable Member of the Slovenian State Holding Act, which has been in force since 2014, takes into account all the OECD guidelines for corporate governance of state-owned companies, provides that the Slovenian State Holding shall manage all the investments of the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with the principle of independence. This means that the government or the ministry must not interfere with their business and decision. In accordance with this principle and on the basis of the 2013 decision on the privatisation of 15 state-owned companies, SDH also carried out the sale of capital investment in Adrie Airways Technika. In particular, it is 52.15 % of the share owned by SDH. In view of the above, as Minister of Finance from the point of view of my field of work, I cannot give you a direct answer, and it has already been put to a concrete question by the SDH President of the Management Board, Mr Marko Jazbec, at a joint meeting of the Committee of State Finance and Monetary Policy and the Commission for Public Finance Supervision, which discussed the SDH Annual Report on State Investment Management for 2014. On the basis of information from SDH, I can indirectly tell you that SDH has fulfilled the definition of the National Assembly by concluding the Adrie Airways Trade Agreement. The sales process started in January 2014. During the sales process, various potential investors showed interest in the company's ownership, including employees in the company who showed their interest through the newly established Adrie Airways Technika Holding Project, d. o. o., Ljubljana. With the help of legal and financial advisers, SDH and the Ljubljana Airport led the sales process in accordance with the rules and in a competitive and transparent and equitable manner to all potential investors. Within the process, they pursued the objectives of maximising the purchase, repaying the loans granted to the company and acquired by the owner in 2012 and at the same time acquiring the owner who will support its growth and further development and maintain key functions in Slovenia. Employees were treated equally or non-discriminatoryly on the sale process. In the process, SDH took into account the country's Capital Investment Management Strategies regarding the examination of the interests of employees in the company's internal ownership. Employers not only examined the interest in the internal ownership of employees in the company, but also the initiative group to buy the company and consequently Adria Airways Holding Project, d.o.o., treated the potential buyer in the sales process equally. In the competitive process, the three bidders were selected to offer the highest purchase price for equity and to ensure the immediate payment of the loan. The offer of employees was the worst among all three offers, as was the company which, on behalf of the employees, did not show sufficient financial assurance as to the ability to finance the transaction. The sellers have estimated that the company needs to be linked to strategic investors who will help replace risky buyers and obtain new quality customers. Connecting to a strategic investor will make it more competitive on the market where more than 40 providers of such services appear on the radio in which the company operates. Connecting to a financially stronger owner will also make it easier to access financial resources. The Slovenian State Holding assesses that the sales process was carried out in a competitive, transparent and equitable manner to all tenderers. He has provided a responsible owner to develop Adria Airways Technika, and could be said for the sake of her employees in particular.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Mr. Luka Moon, are you requesting a supplement to the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u226	Thank you for your word. Mr. Minister, of course, we don't ask you to interfere with sales procedures, because we know you're not allowed by law. However, we demand that you verify the legality of these procedures and that you defend public interest in these procedures, which is enshrined both in the SDH Act and in the management strategy. For example, where it was breached, first of all, the seventh paragraph of Section 3.3 on the management strategy requires SDH to verify the possibility of internal redemption, and not only that, SDH must actively enable internal redemption. Thus, in accordance with this Regulation, SDH should allow workers to improve their offer if it has been valued as the worst price, as you said. And I want to know: Is it right for you that SDH did not do this? Thus, the specific question is that they have not made it possible to improve the offer. Next time you say the offer was the best. The management strategy also requires, inter alia, that the purchase cannot be the sole objective of the sale, but that non-financial objectives such as employment and company development should be taken into account. Paragraph 8 requires SDH to enter into a contract with security guards to stay in Slovenia so that employment does not fall. And I'm really interested here: What non-financial links have been accepted? Have the provisions of this direction been consumed? SDH is argued that it was not possible to include non-financial requirements of workers because the providers were in conflict of interest. But in this case the management strategy is therefore useless with such reading. If workers want to buy the company, they can't make demands from the workers' point of view, but if they want to make trade demands, they can't buy back the company. And I want to know: Is this regulation bad or is the practice of SDH here as it is?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Dr. Dushan Marble, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u228	Now I don't know the details of the contract, but we can ask SDH to give you this if any commitments have been made here. That's what we're gonna do. With regard to development and employment, however, the financial capacity of the customer is crucial. And this taking into account the customer's financial capacity and, of course, the difference between what the financial capacity of the employees or the internal purchase was and what kind of buyer he bought was clearly a sufficiently convincing reason for SDH that this was one of the elements that stated that this buyer, which was now sold to the company by the sales contract, was financially stronger and can thus provide better development and also a strategic buyer than would have employed himself.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Mr. Luka Moon, are you requesting a debate in the National Assembly? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u230	I would ask the Minister if he could provide these answers by SDH. At the same time, given that we have not received any answers, whether the provisions of the SDH Law have been taken into account in this case whether the public interest has been protected or whether the workers have been informed or whether there has been a proper procedure for allowing the increase of the offer by the workers and so on, I propose that the National Assembly discuss this. In fact, Adria Airways Technika is a company with more than 200 employees, which is extremely important for the Slovenian aviation industry, but also indirectly for tourism, is a company with high added value and highly qualified workers, so we cannot accept this place so easily that the logic of maximising purchases can easily prevail and all other provisions, both the SDH Act and the Law on the participation of employees in management, are easily propelled and the employees are clearly bullied. So I suggest we talk about this. However, I would ask the Minister to provide information, in particular on which non-financial commitments are covered by the purchase contract, and to explain or explain by the Ministry whether all the items of the SDH Act and the management strategies in this case have been taken into account and whether, as such, the procedure has been carried out legally and correctly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. We're done with the questions. To the President of the Government, ministers and ministers, I thank you for the answers given. I hereby end the 1st item of the agenda, which we will continue tomorrow, on 15 December 2015, when the National Assembly, in the framework of the votes, decides on the proposed decisions. I am also adjourning the 14th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Thank you very much.
