ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 5th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Jana Jenko, mag. Tanya Zink, mag. Klaudija Markež, Mrs Jelka Godec, Mrs Nada Brinovšek, Mrs Irena Grošelj Kosnik, Mrs Vesna Vervega by 2 p.m., Mr. Marijan Pojbič, Mr. Benedict Kopmajer, Mr. Ivan Hršak from 3 p.m. on, mag. Ange Logar, mag. Marko Pogačnik, Mr Jožef Horvat, Mr Franz Breznik, Mr Marjan Dolinšek, Mr Jože Tanko, Dr Vinko Gorenak and Mag. Branko Grimes. I welcome everyone here. We're moving on to 27. On the day-to-day basis, that is to say the proposal for a decision on amendments and amendments to the decision on the reshaping of the University of Maribor. The draft decree was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Petr Macko, to further explain the motion for a decree.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u2	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Members and Members! The proposed decree amending and supplementing the Decree on the Conversion of the University of Maribor changes the seat of the Medical Faculty, which moved to a new building on Taborska ulica 8, Maribor, before Slomškov trg 15. In addition, the headquarters of the Faculty of Tourism, which changed the title of the seat on the Road of the First Fighters 36 in Brežice, before the Market of Evictions 12, Brežice. The name of the Faculty of Construction in the Faculty of Construction, Transport Engineering and Architecture is further changed, which describes the field of study and research activities of the Faculty on the proposal of the University of Maribor. Finally, in a decree with the Statute of the University of Maribor, a number of areas are aligned with the areas which have been added to the Statute on the basis of the fifth paragraph of Article 6 of the Decree on the Conversion of the University of Maribor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u3	The proposal for a decree was considered by the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as the working body of the mother. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of the Magi. I'm holding Bon Clanjschek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u4	Thank you very much. Your Honor! At its 6th session, on 11 February 2015, the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth addressed the Proposal for a Decree amending and supplementing the Decree on the recasting of the University of Maribor, submitted by the Government for its consideration and adoption. The opinion was delivered by the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the proposed law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and from a legislative and technical point of view and made comments to Articles 2, 3 and 4. In this regard, their representative explained that the provision of Article 3 of the novel, which is transitional in substance, should be dealt with more clearly, since it cannot be understood what the statute should be aligned with. Article 154 of the Constitution, which provides that the Regulation shall enter into force on the 15th day following its publication and that the time limits may be reduced only for justified reasons, in cases of sudden occurrence of circumstances requiring immediate action to prevent possible abuses. In the framework of the shorter debate, the Minister presented the change of seat and the change of name of the three universities within the University of Maribor. No amendments were tabled by qualified applicants within the time limit. On the basis of Article 131, paragraph 8, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee has drawn up and adopted an amendment to Articles 3 and 4 of the draft decree. In accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he voted on the articles of the draft decree and adopted them. In the light of the amendment adopted by the Committee, the text of the amended decision, which includes the amendments adopted, is prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u5	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Primož Hainz is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u6	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr Secretary! Allow me to present the position of the Desus Group on all three of the decisions we have before us: Proposal for a decree amending and supplementing the Decree amending the University of Maribor, Proposal for a decree amending and supplementing the Decision establishing the University of Primorska, and Proposal for a decree amending and supplementing the Decision establishing the Faculty of Information Studies in Novi Grad. In the Desus Group we will support all three decrees relating to the University of Maribor and Primorska and the Independent Higher Education Institute in New Town. It is only a matter of more or less harmonising legal acts in view of the actual situation with regard to college seats and addresses, with changes to their names and the addition of study areas. In these last words, "adding study areas", let me stop for a moment. Adding study areas means increasing the number of equal study programmes. It is nice and right that we allow students as many study options as possible, but it is still important to ask whether the dissemination of study areas and this programme is justified in quantitative terms in view of the costs required after rationalisation of all segments of public spending. Is it reasonable and justifiable that as a result we have a large number of studies spanning all colleges and institutions in classrooms for a few students, for example less than ten. It should also be considered or asked whether the number of studies does not compromise the quality of the studies. In view of this and some other issues related to this large number of new departments, the same departments of different faculties throughout Slovenia, and given that a debate is currently under way on the new Higher Education Act, we call on the Ministry and the Government to approach the reconstruction of this area with great seriousness and discretion. As I said in the introduction, the Desus Group does give its consent to all three decrees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u7	The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Dr. Franz the Crusader.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u8	Mr. President, the well-respected High Council! In view of the fact that this and the following points are being amended in two public universities or in relation to two public universities, in Maribor and in Primorska, in the Group of Social Democrats, we are presenting a united position on both proposals. In addition to technical alignment with the changes to the designation of individual members and the seats of the decree, they contain more important substantive provisions or amendments or extensions of the study areas of the individual members of the two universities. Thus, the Decree on the Conversion of the University of Maribor is complemented by the study area of art at the Faculty of Arts and Technology at the Faculty of Energy. However, the decision to reshape the University of Primorska is complemented by a new study area at the Faculty of Mathematics, Science and Information Technology, by social sciences or narrow psychology. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will support the proposals for amendments to both decrees. In doing so, we would like to point out that our support is not based solely on the formal reasons stated by the applicant in the explanatory statement in the sense that it is merely a technical confirmation of the decisions taken previously by the Senate of the University and the Government. As pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, the system for determining additional study areas is legally inappropriate. It is unusual that a hierarchically higher legal act, which in this case is, is subsequently aligned with the statute of the university. It also follows from that opinion that the National Assembly is not only a formal observer and a confirmer of the decisions already taken, but also has the opportunity to make a substantive decision on the amendments to the law. The consequences of a different decision from that previously taken by the Senate of the University and the Government are not clear from the current legislation. Therefore, we expect from the competent ministry the normative changes that will determine the competence of all three stakeholders in the decision-making of the study areas in a clear manner both by the Senate of the University and the Government as well as by the National Assembly. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we will support the amendment of both decrees, as it were, but point out that in the light of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, we join the right to make changes to individual decisions not only formally but also substantively. That is why we will not only take advantage of this right when we vote on these, but also when we vote on amendments to other decisions still in the process of being adopted in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u9	The word is given by the Group of the United Left for her by Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that. I will present the position of the United Left Group not only for this point, but for the next two points, it is said, for all three decrees. Amendments and additions to the decrees on the transformation of the University of Maribor, Primorska and Novoměški Faculty of Information Studies seem to be part of the formality that comes on the agenda of the National Assembly. This is about introducing new programmes or technical changes, such as the transfer of the head office of a university or institute, but this certification is illustrative of certain problematic aspects affecting higher education areas. Science can only develop according to its own internal logic, it regulates relations within itself, and, finally, the idea of the autonomy of the university emerged. However, concrete examples show that the arrangement — and here I am thinking mainly of the Higher Education Act — is disorderly and inconsistent. On the one hand, the National Assembly confirms what is already being done, on the other hand, we have the constitutional autonomy of the university and the National Assembly must not interfere. I mention all of this because of the decision we will be considering in the near future. We will test the implementation of the educational science and teacher education programme at the Theological Faculty in Ljubljana. Clearly, this is not in line with the principle of lay-off public school. It is clear that it is not in accordance with the principle of separation of religious communities and of the State commanded by the Constitution in its Article 7. Teacher education is and must be the primary task of the Faculty of Education and Philosophy. It is understandable that in some professions additional pedagogical knowledge is acquired – but, what is the profession of theology, please?Oh, my God! For an additional subject of religion and ethics, professional training is provided, otherwise it requires religious, not theological, knowledge. It is an invasion of private interest in public education; an intrusion of a certain global view into public education, which must be neutral and accessible to all. Invasion of the clergy of the Catholic Church into public education. Theological college should not educate teachers and teachers, but to a certain extent it is already doing so. While the university decides on the programmes itself, the curriculum of education and teacher education at the university of theology is a witness to what the autonomy of the university has become today. Autonomy that does not work in the interest of science, in the interest of the whole society, in the public interest, is not autonomy. It is just an appropriate excuse, the cover of an ambitious elite, which is further fueled by market pressures. The university is subordinated to commercial logic and thus does not serve the quality and diversity of studies and does not serve social development. Content following market dynamics or having a narrow interest in academic privilege are being introduced. Public education is cut short by austerity measures and, on the other hand, by private ambitions of economic and religious centres of power. That theological faculty is the one teaching the teacher’s staff clearly indicates the right’s interest in the half of the educational system. We won't support the United Left this time. We will not support them because they point to the irregularity of the legislation in the area of higher education. They show what is the situation of a university that needs comprehensive and thorough reform. But not in the style of a proposal for a new law on higher education, which means further collapse of the public higher education system through corporate management, the introduction of tuition and the subordination of the university of the market. Only the democratisation of the university can guarantee its autonomy, which will serve the public interest, but not the social development of capital, the narrow academic elite or the political interests of the right or the private interests of the top religious communities. Democracy, which will restore autonomy and public interest in the higher education system, must lead to the reform of the Higher Education Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u11	Ms Irena Kotnik, SMC Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u12	Dear Secretary-General, Members and Members of Parliament! In the SMC Group we support the proposal for a decree on amendments and amendments to the Decree on the Conversion of the University of Maribor. The amendment of the decree is necessary because of the change in the title of the Faculty of Tourism, the change in the title of the Faculty of Medicine, which moved to new premises in 2013 which gave students and professors normal working conditions, the change in the name of the Faculty of Construction to the Faculty of Construction, Transport Engineering and Architecture, which accurately describes the field of academic and research activities of the Faculty. It is also necessary to amend the decision by introducing two new study areas. In 2012, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia gave agreement to the University of Maribor on the study field of energy technology at the Faculty of Energy and on the art field at the Faculty of Arts, with changes needed to coordinate classifications of types of educational activities. The amendments and additions to this Decision follow the principle of legality and transparency and the principle of autonomy, and the main solutions therefore relate to the regulation of the establishment of two members of the University of Maribor and the harmonisation of two new study areas. The list of study areas in the founding act, which we are adopting today and where the University of Maribor can carry out study programmes, is actually increasing transparency in the implementation of the higher education institution's study activity. On the other hand, new study content or study areas can be an important element in improving the educational process in this field, allowing students to acquire new knowledge and competences within the added study areas. As regards the change in the title of the Faculty of Medicine, which is in fact related to the construction of the new Faculty of Medicine in Maribor in 2013, we have achieved an important achievement of quality in higher education in both teaching and research. Accordingly, we will also support all amendments and additions to the decision on the transformation of the University of Maribor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u13	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Andrej Chus.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, colleagues, representative of the Ministry! We have before us a motion for a decree on amendments and additions to the Decree on the Conversion of the University of Maribor. It is essentially a minor formality, i.e. the legal obligation of the National Assembly, and, of course, we are predicting support for it. In essence, it is only a matter of changing the title of the Faculty of Tourism, as well as of agreeing to change the title of the Faculty of Medicine in Maribor. It is a very important acquisition for both the country and students, as it will also be possible to improve education in the new medical faculty. The working conditions will also be much better. Allow me, however, because we are in the field of higher education, to also, of course, touch on the amendment or reform of the Higher Education Act. In the National Assembly, we have amended or amended the existing law 24 times, indicating, of course, the need to root out and comprehensively reform higher education legislation. But let me also comment on the proposal made by the government or the ministry. The proposal interferes with the constitutional autonomy of the university, in particular with the aim of establishing a system of internal organisation of universities, which is contrary to Article 58 of the Constitution, which guarantees the independence of the university and establishes that the university is autonomous and itself provides for internal organisation. The resolution itself, which is to be adopted by a high consensus of all stakeholders, is, according to the data when the resolution is adopted, the power to say that the high consensus is an excessive claim. The idea of allowing greater interdisciplinary and multidisciplinary programmes, improving cooperation with research institutions and the economy, we can agree with the economy, but we cannot agree in any way with the origin of the resolution on the intervention of a habilitator in the field of habilitation, which is left to the autonomy of the university everywhere, as well as the record on the regulation of the internal organisation of universities, and we understandably cannot agree with any record in the future law, as it is an infringement of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and a violation of the autonomy of the university. The material, i.e. the proposal of the law, correctly states the findings of the NAKVIS on the inappropriate age structure of lecturers and, at the same time, confers on these regular professors and scientific advisors the privileges of uninterrupted further teaching, young candidates, that is, professors and extraordinary professors, and puts before the periodic international call, which is a kind of division of citizens into first-class and second-class citizens. At the same time, there is a clear discrepancy between the views of contract labour law and the equality of treatment and expectation. So, we're going to make it difficult for young people to make progress, and we're going to protect regular professors like nomadic bears. While there is much to be said about free education in Slovenia, it is free of charge only on paper, many times forced camps in primary schools, or optional work volumes, for which strangers and parents have to decide on the basis of the teachers' demands, and eventually also pay for the teaching materials that students have to buy, and the room that students have to pay in the dormitory and the state supports them with a minimum subsidy. The suspicion that universities want private resources from students, i.e. rents for student rooms, to improve their material status, by adding student homes, is unfortunately impossible to get rid of. The non-transparent way of reaching out to public institutions, universities, financing with tax money, private money for parents and students will necessarily bring poverty to students' living and working standards. Thus, all interventions related to the internal organisation of the university, either a violation of the autonomy of the university or the seizure of private money in a non-transparent manner, even without taking into account the principles of the Public-Private Partnership Act. So much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u15	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. No amendments have been tabled to the proposed decision. The vote on the motion for a decree will take place on Monday, 9th, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. 3. 2015, in the framework of the vote. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 28. On the day-to-day basis, this is on the defence of the proposal for a decision amending and supplementing the decision establishing the University of Primorska. The proposal for a decree was submitted by the Government to the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, Dr. Petr Macko, to further explain the motion for a decree.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u16	Thanks again. By amending the Decree establishing the University of Primorsk, the title of the seat of the Institute of Andrej Marusic is being corrected according to the actual situation, i.e. Koper, Museum Square 2. For reasons of transparency, there are also fields of study – social sciences, psychology at the Faculty of Mathematics, Science and Information Technology and Art at the Faculty of Education – which have already been established in the Statute of the University of Primorska and have obtained the consent of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which allows for the fourth paragraph of Article 6 of the Decree establishing the University of Primorska. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u17	The proposal for a decree was considered by the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as the working body of the mother. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of the Magi. I'm holding Bon Clanjschek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Your Honor! At its 6th meeting, on 11 February 2015, the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth addressed the Proposal for a Decree amending and supplementing the Decision establishing the University of Primorska, submitted by the Government for its consideration and adoption. The opinion was also given by the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the proposed law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects and made comments to Articles 2 and 3. It was of the view that it would explain how, in the event of conflicting decisions by bodies adopting amendments to the Statute, such as the Senate and the Administrative Committee and the National Assembly adopting amendments to the Decision, the members of the University would proceed with the implementation of additional study programmes in practice. It also drew attention to the provision of Article 154 of the Constitution. No amendments were tabled by qualified applicants within the time limit. The Committee, without discussion and on the basis of Article 131, paragraph 8, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, drafted and adopted an amendment to Article 3 of the draft law. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted by the Committee, the text of the amended decision is prepared on the basis of the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u19	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ms Irena Kotnik, SMC Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u20	Mr President, honourable Secretary-General, Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a decree amending and supplementing the Decree establishing the University of Primorska regulates the seat of the Institute of Andrej Marusič and the study areas which have already been added to the Statute, namely social sciences, psychology at the Faculty of Mathematics, Science and Information Technology and art at the Faculty of Education. With the proposal for a decree on amendments and amendments to the Decree on the Conversion of the University of Maribor, which we are adopting today, due to the transparency of the two new study areas, it is also necessary to add it to the establishment act of the University of Primorska. These study areas were already added to the Statute of the University of Primorska and in 2014 they also obtained the consent of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The purpose of the draft decree is to regulate the data on the head office and study activities of the University of Primorsk, and to amend and supplement this Decision follow the principle of legality and transparency and the principle of autonomy. The new fields of study or new study content may mean a positive shift towards improving the educational process in this field and acquiring new skills and competences of those students who will decide to study within the new fields of study, both psychology and art. The very list of study areas in the establishment act that we are adopting today, in fact, increases the transparency of the implementation of the higher education institution's study activities. For these reasons, we will support the proposal of the Decision amending and supplementing the Decision establishing the University of Primorsk in the Parliamentary Group of the Party Mir Cerar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u21	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Andrej Chus.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u22	Have a nice hello again. We also have before us a proposal for a regulation on amendments and amendments to the Decree establishing the University of Primorsk, even in this case it is a matter of general formality, nothing of substance or substance, which should be discussed or warned, and therefore, on behalf of the SDS Group, it would continue to debate on the subject of higher education and regulation of this legislation. In fact, as I have pointed out earlier, there are some really controversial and bad solutions in the proposal for a law on higher education, which is under public scrutiny, but I would like to say that the crown of everything bad that is proposed is also the proposed new way of appointing a Rector. This is a unique thing in the democratic academic world and the worst political intervention in the autonomy of the university since normalisation. Under the proposal, the Rector is to elect only a Senate instead of all the habilitated teachers, which narrows the number of voters from hundreds to, say, a tenth and increases the possibility of an interesting or political influence on the selection of the Rector. In the proposed amendments to the Higher Education Act, we also see the intention of abolishing private higher education and preventing public competition. The proposal, which defines the conditions for the establishment and functioning of the university, contains solutions that, without a dance, define such conditions that private universities or colleges will not be able to implement them. It is necessary to know that Slovenia is totally impossible to compare with those European countries that in the past have had normal development without totalitarian systems, without abolishing private property and decommissioning, where private individuals can accumulate enough capital to develop a private educational institution today or in the present. It is quite clear that today in Slovenia there is hardly enough private capital to provide the full criteria or conditions for the establishment and operation of a private faculty with full-time lecturers or to provide a condition for at least 75% of staff to be employed in the form of a regular working relationship for more than half-time. The proposal also places obstacles in front of public colleges, as it imposes on all higher education teachers and co-workers to demonstrate minimum comparable standards for election in the titles of higher education teachers, which should not concern regular professors. After their election to the regular profession, they shall have a secret mandate without re-election and without checking whether they show any standards, minimum domestic or foreign, as the latter shall not be checked for regular professors. There is also an unknown fact about what international standards are that the proposal is intended to refer to. The solution suggests the depriving of young personnel, which suggests a distortion of competition. It is also unclear who should check and by what criteria the faculty's ability to establish scientific and research or artistic cooperation.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u23	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. No amendments have been tabled to the proposed decision. The vote on the motion for a decree will take place on Monday, 9th, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. 3. 2015, in the context of the votes This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 29. Point of the agenda, on the basis of the proposal for a Decision amending and supplementing the Decision establishing a single higher education institution of the Faculty of Information Studies in the new city. The draft decree was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, Dr. Petr Macko, to further explain the motion for a decree.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u24	Thank you very much again. The Decision amending and supplementing the Decree establishing the Independent Higher Education Institute of the Faculty of Information Studies in the New Town governs the change of the establishment of the Faculty of Information Studies in the New Town, adds the name of the Faculty in the English language, adds a new field of study to which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has already agreed to the 2013 Decision and introduces the translation of the study areas from the current ISCED classification into the classification system of education and training of CLASSIUS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u25	The proposal for a decree was considered by the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as the working body of the mother. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of the Magi. I'm holding Bon Clanjschek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Your Honor! At its 6th session, on 11 February 2015, the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth addressed the Proposal for a Decision amending and supplementing the Decision establishing a stand-alone higher education institution of the Faculty of Information Studies in the New Town, submitted by the Government for its consideration and adoption in the National Assembly. The opinion was also given by the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the proposed law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects and made comments to Articles 2 and 3. In this regard, their representative explained that the text of the decision merely changes, which should be taken into account in the title of the draft decision. However, in explaining Article 2 of the draft decree, it explained that there is no clear relationship between the classification so far and the new CLASSIUS classification and training system, in particular whether their concept is identical. As with the other two comments, it reiterated its comments on the conflicting decisions of the bodies which adopt amendments to the Statute and of the National Assembly which adopts amendments to the Decree and on the provisions of Article 154 of the Constitution. In the context of the shorter discussion, the Minister explained that the Government had agreed to an additional study area of the Faculty of Information Studies in Nova City, namely computer science, on 23 May 2013. No amendments were tabled by qualified applicants within the time limit. The Committee drafted and adopted an amendment to the title and Article 3 of the bill and voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted by the Committee, the text of the supplementary draft resolution, which includes the amendments adopted, is prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u27	Here comes the presentation of the position of the members of the groups. Ms Irena Kotnik, SMC Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u28	Have a nice hello again. The Faculty of Information Studies in the New Town was established in 2008 due to the needs of the economy and the local environment and one of the objectives was also to increase the openness and competitiveness of higher education. The amendments and additions to the decree we are adopting today are necessary because of the change in the head office of the Faculty, the added name of the Faculty in English, the alignment of the decree with the classification system of education and training and the additional field of study, namely, the area of computerisation to which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has already agreed in 2013. The list of additional study areas in the establishment act in which the faculty can carry out study programmes also increases the transparency of the implementation of higher education activities. The amendments and additions to this Decision follow the principle of legality and transparency and therefore the main solutions relate to the regulation of data on the establishment, designation and study activities of the Faculty. In the SMC Group, we believe that these changes to the decree we are taking today are also following the original purpose of establishing the Faculty of Information Studies in New Town. On the other hand, the new study content or study area, which is added in the proposal for a decree, will be able to contribute to the improvement of the educational process and to the creation of quality human resources in the field of computerisation. For these reasons, the SMC Party, like the other two proposals, will also support the proposal for a regulation amending and supplementing the Decision establishing a separate higher education institution of the Faculty of Information Studies in the New Town. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u29	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, for which Mr Chuš is his colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u30	It's the third time we've had a nice greeting today. We also have before us a proposal for a decree on amendments and additions to the Decree establishing a separate higher education institution of the Faculty of Information Studies in the New Town. The motion for a ruling itself will be supported. Here, too, it is only formal matters, so we agree to do so and we see no problems. In doing so, we would, of course, point out in our parliamentary group that it is a college with annual incomes of one million and a half euros and what this college does for the local environment, students, to connect with the economy and beyond. We must also ask ourselves what the Minister of Education has done in recent years, which has received €700 000 of copyright fees and has prepared a very bad proposal for a law on higher education. As it is said, the proposal of the Higher Education Act, which was prepared by the Ministry, interferes with the constitutional autonomy of the university, prevents the entry of young researchers and lecturers, while empowering regular professors, allowing interference by the public with private education, abolishes private higher education and prevents public competition, breaks the public sector. In doing so, I would also like to point out that the proposal in Article 26 also abolishes exceptional studies. At the same time, the area for which we are even discussing amendments to the Higher Education Act should be completely absent. We're missing the funding arrangements for higher education. The judgment of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia has made the regulation on the financing of higher education, which has been financed over the last few years, all the time since Minister Golobič, aware of the illegal and competent ministry of the issue. The latter was also an alleged ground for the opening of the Higher Education Act. The fundamental problem is that the starting point of the new law on higher education is precisely this key problem, that is, the funding of higher education is not solved, but that the legislator, under the pretext of solving funding, goes to other issues, such as interference with university autonomy, provided by Article 58 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. In the area of financing, we miss any indication of funding measures that should follow the principle of fairness, namely that all existing public universities in the current system of financing due to comparable status should be financed in the same percentage – that is, today they are not. For example, the University of Primorsk receives significantly less funding than the University of Ljubljana, which is currently privileged and should not be. In our parliamentary group, we will support amendments to the Faculty of Information Studies decree, but we will certainly not support amendments to the Higher Education Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u31	The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Dr. Franz the Crusader.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u32	Mr. President, the well-respected High Council! In view of the fact that the position of the Faculty of Information Studies in the New Town departs from the regime applicable to the university under consideration, the position of the Group of Members on amendments and amendments to the decision establishing it is to be submitted separately. Let me mention in the introduction that we will support the amendment. The reason for the separate position is the desire to establish a new university in the New Town. Any extension of the study areas of the Faculty there should therefore also be assessed in terms of how much it contributes to strengthening advocates' arguments for the establishment of a new university. As it is known, we are reserved in our parliamentary group for initiatives for further fragmentation of higher education space in Slovenia. The progress of the process has not been satisfied with the expectations of an important contribution to quality. Moreover, many examples show that it served only the promotion activities of political February from certain areas, and a qualitative assessment has thus often had to remove political calculus. In the idea of "university in every Slovenian village" some are still generating higher education local patriotism has led to poverty in particular of existing, established institutions, causing the greatest harm to students. At the same time, it should be reiterated that the regionalisation of higher education was mainly carried out through socio-economic programmes of dubious quality, which today is evidenced by figures at the Employment Institute. It is interesting that political decision-makers are responsible for this, which are declared to be great advocates of entrepreneurial practices and science, and they even express negative views on society. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we experienced ambitions during the procedure of the Decision establishing the independent higher education institution of the Faculty of Information Studies after the extensive expansion of the study areas, but we could not support the intention or attempts to include in the proposal for a decision study areas that deviate significantly from the intended establishment of the university. Finally, let us express the expectation that the Ministry will continue to act responsibly and will not be subject to appetites after the extension of the study areas where they are already represented to an appropriate extent. Quantities cannot become a quality criterion. As it is said, in the Group of Social Democrats, we will support the proposal for a decree because we believe that the placement of computerism between the Faculty of Information Studies fields makes sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u33	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. No amendments have been tabled to the proposed decision. The vote on the motion for a decree will take place on Monday, 9th, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. 3. 2015, in the context of the votes This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 19. At the end of the day, this is first of all a proposal for a law on amendments to the penal code. The draft law was tabled by a group of 21 Members and Members with first-signed Mr Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of 21 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed law to Mr Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Mr Stare and Mr Boss, dear Members, dear Members! As has already been said, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have decided to try again to amend the Penal Code in articles relating to so-called terrorism. For the first time, we failed on 19 December last year when a general debate was held in the National Assembly on the basis of our proposal. Then we somehow reviewed your arguments and your concerns, of course some of them were on the spot, and therefore we decided to re- prepare the matter in those articles that we consider to be flawed. In fact, we add only two paragraphs in two articles and not a new article or as we were then. We do not refer, as was the main observation, to United Nations Resolution No 2178, because some of you said that the resolutions of the United Nations are not cited in laws, otherwise we incriminate such acts in this resolution. This resolution is adopted by the United Nations Security Council without a vote last year, and it speaks of this, or states, to do everything in their power to prevent financing, recruitment, arms and the transport of warriors themselves, as foreign terrorists, individuals intending to participate in armed conflicts abroad in order to break the constitutional order of a home country, foreign country or international organisation. Article 108 of the Penal Code states that an act of terrorism in this way is one that threatens or threatens a terrorist act is one that seriously endangers the constitutional foundations of a country. We propose that the word "worrisome" be deleted because it is difficult to define a serious threat to constitutional foundations. However, if we define simply to endanger the constitutional basis, the matter is significantly easier. We also propose to add a new fourth paragraph after the third paragraph of Article 108 of the Penal Code, which reads: "Who wishes to achieve the purpose referred to in the first paragraph by intending to participate in or participate in an armed conflict outside the territory of the Republic of Slovenia shall be punished with a prison sentence of five to fifteen years." So it's about those who fought there and came back, and also those who intend to attend. So it's a prevention. We also propose to add a new third paragraph to the second paragraph of Article 111, which reads as follows: "The same shall be punished by the person who encourages the planning of the offences referred to in Article 108 of this Code or who consents to participate in such offences outside the territory of the Republic of Slovenia." In the first paragraph of Article 111, the words 'or jointly' shall be added to the words 'or to participate in an armed conflict outside the territory of the Republic of Slovenia'. Well, it refers to those who recruit. We're making a more specific proposal. It is said that someone who protects someone to participate in armed conflicts, say, either in the Islamic State or, as I have already said at one of the previous meetings, this also applies to someone who would eventually go to fight in Donetsk or Lugansk, for example, on the side of the pro-Russian rebels, whom we know that they also want to break the constitutional order of a country, Ukraine, although there is a "worrisome" to break constitutional order, if I may say so because we know what is going on there. A joint meeting of the Justice and Home Affairs Committees was also convened last week. I am pleased that we have been assured there by the Minister of the Interior and the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice that other proposals are also being prepared or as a package of these counter-terrorism measures, in particular in terms of travel documents, administrative matters, amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act. I'm sure these matters are also important. The European Council is also expected to adopt some common legislation in May, which would then be implemented by the Member States of the European Union into their legislation. However, as I have already said, the government is in some way thinking that [[sign for the end of the debate]] We don't need a code. We have a different opinion in the Slovenian Democratic Party, which is why we are proposing these amendments, which we will support.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u35	For an introductory explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Mr Dark Staret.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u36	Dear President, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! At its 23rd meeting on 18 February this year, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted an opinion on the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Penal Code, which was tabled by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank. As already in the first proposal with similar content in December 2014, the applicants refer to the United Nations Security Council resolution on threats to international peace and security caused by terrorist acts caused by atrocities in Syria and Iraq. The draft law proposes that the Penal Code amend and supplement Articles 108 and 111 and criminalises the purpose of participating in armed conflicts or military operations abroad. The government has already adopted a negative opinion on a similar proposal for a law in December, as mentioned since it considers that the proposed amendments are not necessary. In fact, the current Penal Code in the Republic of Slovenia, according to the Government, already contains such incrimination. The Government considers that the doctrine of the proposed Article 1 relating to participation is not necessary because it is described as a form of enforcement in the form of participation and is covered by established forms of participation in the offences defined in the general part of the Penal Code. However, with regard to the incrimination of the intended participation, the Government considers that excessive interference with individual freedom is an issue. This is all the more questionable or exposed, taking into account the provision of the Penal Code on guilt. We are further concerned about this intended participation in relation to the external appearance of this intention, which is intended to achieve the purpose referred to in Article 108(1), as proposed by the proposer in essence. The main feature of the preparatory actions is that the perpetrator has not yet carried out any sign of the crime, and it is therefore totally inconceivable that the criminality field should be moved to the naked area. In fact, it is known that the occurrence of a crime, so-called iter criminalis, has four stages: naked slander, preparing an offence, an attempt and a complete crime. There is no incriminating naked slander anywhere in the European space, because it would essentially mean that we are interfering with the area of emotion, thought, mental state of an individual who is not even articulated and would move it into the crime zone. According to the Government, the proposal is based on Article 1 of the Penal Code. Finally, it must be reiterated that all interventions in criminal law must operate within the framework of the legal system of human rights and fundamental freedoms. The possible dilemma between freedom and security, which may favour security, is, in our view, a false dilemma, for that means giving up freedom. If the KZ-1C proposal had been adopted, which the Government opposes, there would have been a new legal situation in addition to that, if it could be argued, so far the operation in foreign terrorist organisations has not been a crime. Ensuring security in particular through criminal law instruments must be an area that operates hand in hand with the exercise and respect of the protection of human rights. As the Government considers the proposed solutions to be excessively and unwarrantedly interfering with the individual's freedom, and as I have said in the first place, such acts are already in force under the applicable Penal Code, which is why the Government does not support the proposed Code for all these reasons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u37	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Andrej Chus.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. From the discussion or presentation of the Government’s position, we could say: Nothing new in the West. Head to the sand, there's no trouble in the world, everything's good, it's important that we're moral, ethical and clean. At the outset, I would like to say that we are proposing to amend the Penal Code as we are aware of the trends that are taking place in the world. At the final stage of globalisation, which is present today in the world, it appears that something today is 5,000 kilometers away, and then the next day our neighbours. And of course, all of Europe, the whole world is taking action, lastly, Germany, a few weeks ago, has actively done so. Austria too, where they are adopting a package of legislative amendments. With us, however, we are somehow aware or agree that there is no problem, that everything is good and that it is of course important that we are ethical and moral. But, you know, security is a good thing that we all consider to be self-evident. But unfortunately, when you look at this happening, what's going on in the world, I have to find out it isn't. Far from it. We live in a world that is very far from the ideal that everyone would like: to live in peace, to live in a way that respects one another, to respect the rights of everyone and, of course, to act in such a way that no one will ever be harmed. Unfortunately, that's the world we want, but this world doesn't really exist right now. On the contrary. The world as it is today is spiraling into some sort of spiral of terrorist violence that has not actually been compared in the last 50 years. A few words have already been said today, and many more will be said. Personally, I'm wondering if the people you've spoken to know what's going on in Syria and Iraq. Already at the last reading of the draft law on 19 December, and even in recent days in the media, very many words have been said. The talk was also about Palestine, of course, and we agree there that things should be arranged, so that there will be peace, there will be prosperity, that people will respect each other and that they will be able to live peacefully and well. But do you know that the number of casualties in Syria is 100 to 1,000 times higher than the number of casualties in Palestine? Do you know that the Islamic State killed more Jesuits in one day than the Palestinian victim in recent years together? In one day! Do you know that the Islamic State buried a group of living children and mothers with donkeys because they refused to go to Islam? Do you know what's going on? According to the government's position, I don't think you know. Even how the government works. I don't think the government works at all. How many opposition proposals have been proposed in the first hearing, including in the second, and have been adopted and are in the legislative process! You know, it's time for you to start working, because if we put our heads in the sand and expect everything to get rid of itself, it won't. Did you watch this when the Islamic State publishes the footage itself on YouTube? Have you seen the images of the mass plagues of people, including children, young children? Do you even know what's going on out there? Can you imagine someone from Slovenia involved in these crimes? According to Europe's official estimates, there are over 3,000 people, citizens of the European Union, and what will happen? Believe me, sooner or later this group will be militarily broken. The whole world has practically united in the fight against them, and then these people will come back. They will return to Europe, including Slovenia. Already today, they've been coming back in the past. Of course, these standards and lifestyles that have been taken over and learned in Syria and Iraq will be unacceptable to us here and I do not know if we will tolerate this. Can we tolerate such behavior?Oh, my God! Curse people?Oh, my God! Human rights violations?Oh, my God! It will have to be prepared and several official bodies have said that legislation in Slovenia is not at the right level, is not prepared for these threats. You know, in the end, it's people's lives. If there's one fatality, it'll be one too many. And then everyone in the country will say and see what Parliament has done. He didn't do anything. It's important that he's moral and ethical. It's about people's lives, about security, about peace, about health, about everything. As a result, we would expect it to be taken seriously. What, though, is the way the existing authority is dealt with? In such a way that no committee is appointed for the supervision of security and intelligence services for months and months, although for the last time, even for a new appointment by this coalition, the Director of the Security Intelligence Service on the Commission himself said that nothing can replace parliamentary supervision. But, obviously, these are the new standards that the Peace Cerar Party has been pursuing. At the same time, we read how terrorists walk through Slovenia, even those with international terrorists, how they have been recruited here, how people have been leaving and are still leaving and how individual centres for transporting potential fighters of the Islamic State are operating in Slovenia. On the other hand, when we propose because we are trying to contribute as much as the opposition can, a solution that is a will to do something here, to take appropriate action, to face this threat properly, then look for dots and commas, something that is not in any paragraph and is in another and so on. We have heard this before and at the previous hearing by government representatives. That's a terrible argument. When hundreds of children are killed there, they suddenly head 150 people, that's one of the last videos that everyone can see on YouTube, it's either important to you or it's written in the first or in the second paragraph. Great government, you really care about the safety of people, the prevention, and you have a great sympathy for what's going on there! Even today, the last time it was, is a moment of truth. When something happens, they'll count not the words, but the actions. And we do, obviously, we're not gonna do anything. For this reason, I wonder how it is even possible that such insensitiveness is present, as Slovenia has always been in the last few years to show compassion for all who suffer. I wonder why there are no more reports from that end, because people are most aware of each other, but you, as politicians, should be at risk of peace, security and life and human health. There people go to school and school for the time they return to Europe. There are no borders in Europe; there is Schengen in Europe. This is no longer just a matter of Slovenian citizens, but everyone who can be accommodated here gets a permanent residence, citizenship, of course, but, first of all, today when we talk about the adoption of the Penal Code, it concerns those who are Slovenian citizens. I don't understand how people can go from here to committing crimes like this, and I think it actually has very little to do with faith, but very much with psychopathology. But let those who are called to do so do so. Our job as legislators is to set a framework to say what is right and what is wrong. Speaking of criminal law, the ultimatums were the last choice, as they call it. But I'm sorry, with what's going on there, this last choice is necessary, because something has to be done. All possible legal frameworks must be put in place for this threat not only to our citizens and citizens, but also to the world's peace in the strongest possible way. We can't say that this is happening somewhere, we don't care, but we can look at the dots, and we can say that maybe we'll look at something, but we think everything's okay now – and we've never done anything. How if everything is okay now, if everything is regulated in the law? Then we should take action. Cases in the past are known, documented, publicly published, denied by no one, even those who participated in conflicts themselves did not deny it – but we did nothing. Other countries are already acting. In Germany, participants in terrorism have already been convicted — those who traveled there and fought on the side of the Islamic State. In other countries too, this is being prepared and is happening like a running lane. In Slovenia, however, head to the sand and let it be what it is. In this way things never end well, and once again, I wonder if we are all aware of what is going on in the world, and globalisation is doing its job. What is happening in Iraq and Syria today is only comparable to the most horrendous Nazi crimes, the Holocaust and what has happened in Slovenia since World War II, when, if you remember, the girls are living in a grave cave and so on. Exactly what is happening with the Islamic State today. I'm just wondering, when some of those who are declaring themselves left-wing politicians have a negative opinion on our proposal, is this because there are other motives for this. That's incomprehensible. But these actions have nothing to do with humanity’s values and respect for fundamental human rights and freedoms. Something has to be done here. It's just that people need to be alerted to what's actually going on. It is necessary to lay down a legal framework for those who do not take these warnings into account to experience what they deserve. In this case, it's a well-deserved punishment, because you can't close your eyes in front of such things. If not, you're on the same page as Europe was before World War II, when everyone said to themselves, "Ah, Nazis! Let's leave them a little bit, because they'll be fine, and then we'll all have a nice life in peace and prosperity." What happened at the end? Tens of millions of dead and about this is the situation with the Islamic State; because we have, we have done nothing, we will not take action to make things go their own way. We just have to do something, ladies and gentlemen! Now to agree and then to vote for it because someone orders it, that's not exactly what we should be doing. When he's here, as the president of the Defence Committee said a while ago, the first death victim will be too late. Now is the time until an effective military action is taken in the Islamic state. But when this happens, and believe me, this action will happen, and the people of the Islamic State will return to where they came from. And if there is no willingness and competence in Slovenia, as well as legislation to fight these people, we will face a threat that we will simply not be able to control it anymore, we will not be able to reach it. I think that today, everyone we are going to discuss must be aware that this is a serious and real threat. There is no more in this world: somewhere out there, there is globalisation today, and all threats and threats are global. And the worst part is, if you tolerate these methods, they spread elsewhere. This has now been seen in Pakistan in an extremely tragic way, where for the first time in history terrorist action has been seen as being carried out only by the Islamic State. That a couple, pardon the expression, the lunatics broke into school and killed over 140 children and a few others, that's something to face, and that's something to count on you to be prepared for. But you need to be prepared in such a way that you do everything you can not to interfere with the rights of others. Therefore, we could take the basis of our proposal, improve it if it is thought that something is unclear in the text. That's what the government would do if they just wanted to, and they'd take at least one step in the right direction. But if this is simply thrown under the table and it is said that everything is all right now — sorry, it’s not okay! The fact is, in Slovenia we have proven the people who fought there, and they themselves admit it. Then someone from the police says they can't act because they don't have the right tools and the legislative framework now I really don't know; people whose job is to protect and protect us are calling for us to do something – but no, everything is fine! [[…]] If we are going to keep our heads in the sand and I do not know what to do, we will not be prepared in Slovenia to account for this threat. We have therefore tabled a proposal for a first reading in our Group of Members because we believe that it is time to join the group of countries that have updated their legislation in preparing for all the threats that are taking place in the world. But apparently, everything is fine in our country. I hope, of course, that there will be no worse offenses or events in Slovenia. In recent weeks, however, you have been able to see that these events are already taking place in all parts of the world. In countries where there is prosperity, where there are no unemployed people, where all is well, there are such cruel crimes. I'm sure we're not immune to this because there's no one immune to it. We therefore call on the parliamentary groups to support our proposal for a law that has been tabled for first reading and to complement it accordingly in the next legislative procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u39	The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State, Mr Stare, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia has not changed significantly since the December meeting of the National Assembly. We don't want to repeat ourselves, though. The fact is that the Islamic State and its associated crisis situations of mass terror, particularly in Syria and Iraq, require action, but since this is a delicate area, legislation must be weighed and constitutionally sustainable. Otherwise, we welcome the good intentions of our colleagues from the SDS, but unfortunately we have before us again a proposal that is at first sight attractive and perhaps even necessary, but when we look at it in more detail, we find that it is another one of the handball moves that we have already practiced. The proposed novel does not comply with the principle of legality and consequently does not provide legal certainty in criminal proceedings, as the proposed provisions are partial and non-consistency. They also overlap with other institutes of criminal substantive law. If I make it easy. There is no clear distinction in the proposal between what is considered a criminal offence and what is not a criminal offence. The new law, for example, incriminates the intended participation, which is punishable by a prison sentence of between 5 and 15 years. This is an excessive interference with the freedom of an individual, and only the intention is very difficult to prove. After all, with such a provision in the Penal Code, journalists could also have great problems with war correspondents, tourists, businessmen and everyone else who travels to crisis countries or their neighbourhood. And at this point, I would not like to discuss that the attitude of the applicants to certain journalists is wrong or that it is wrong. I would only mention the name Erik Valenčič, who says quite enough. I will also not engage in any particular activity in determining the proposal. I only pointed out what disturbed us the most in the Desus Group. It is worth mentioning again that the adoption of the amendment would lead to a certain duplication of legislation. Most of the proposed amendments are already defined in the existing code. Criminal legislation is not going to change the impact, but rather, in accordance with the principle of ultimatum ratio — thoughtfully and justifiably, in the analysis of the applicable legal legislation. Let me point out another fact that stems from the duplication of legislation. The adoption of the novel would raise the issue of the potential for impunity. A new legal situation would arise if it could be argued that the operation of foreign terrorist fighters has not been a crime at all so far, despite the fact that it is already a criminal offence under current criminal law. Furthermore, in the event of the adoption of the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code, such offences, which are already in the pre-trial procedure, would be subject to the so-called principle of a less favourable law, which provides that, in the event that the law is amended after the offence is committed, the law, which is nicer to the perpetrator, shall apply. The proposed amendment also raises the issue of the relationship between freedom and security. To what point are we prepared to sacrifice our freedom at the expense of security? It is a difficult dilemma that the world has faced since 11 September 2001. Europe is also facing this issue after the tragic events in Paris, and your proposal would in practice be able to cut deeply into fundamental freedoms. In the Desus Group, we believe that interventions to criminal material law must be considered and, in the context of the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, we will not support the proposed amendments to the Penal Code. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u41	The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, a magi for her. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u42	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues, welcome! Following the rejection of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Penal Code in December 2014, the Group of Members and Members of the opposition SDS recast the amendment of the Penal Code, which, according to the signatories, follows the resolution of the United Nations Security Council of 24. 9. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The proposed solution this time relates to the amendment of Article 108 and Article 111 of the Penal Code by adding a new paragraph in Article 108, which, in their opinion, criminalises participation in armed conflicts outside Slovenia and in the first paragraph deletes the word "severe" and in Article 111 criminalises participation in armed conflicts outside the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. The government has redrafted a large-scale opinion on the basis of which the proposal for the amendment of the Penal Code-1C does not support. Your Honor! Last week, we discussed the point of activity of the Republic of Slovenia in the field of counter-terrorism following the emergence of the Islamic State terrorist organisation, which was prepared and requested by opposition members of the SDS Group. We think that today's topic and debate on the working body is very much covered by social democrats. We would also like to draw attention to this debate at this point, as the participating and relevant interlocutors presented the activities they are carrying out together at this joint meeting. Appropriate measures are also being prepared at the normative level. At the joint meeting of the two committees, we were presented with frameworks where and in which areas the laws would change and complement. We are confident that the representatives of the Government will repeat all the planning and also present it today as part of the debate. We understand, however, that instruments have also been activated at European Union level to address and address this alarming fact and spread terrorist acts at a broader level. We have read in the documents that political and professional concentration on the future multilateral criminal action within the Council of Europe has begun to take place. An additional protocol on foreign terrorist fighters is also being prepared for the European Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism. We estimate that the debate was a good one and that we were satisfied with the presentation. Nevertheless, the Social Democrats are once again concerned about the events of the international dimension related to the functioning of the Islamic State and the conduct of its fighters. We also regularly follow the news and watch the news and listen to the stories of the parents of minors, as well as girls who leave their homes and go to the territory of the Islamic State. We accept the Government's detailed explanation of why the amendment of the Penal Code is not necessary and does not support the Government, and we believe that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. We believe that we need to be particularly careful about the amendments to the Penal Code, since every change that is so small needs to be carefully considered and consulted with experts or stakeholders. But we are opening up the efforts of the international community on a common approach to the fight against terrorism, against the promotion and recruitment of people into terrorist organisations. We are aware that this is a global and serious problem that we will solve together.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u43	The text is given by the Joint Left Group, for her by Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u44	That's a good-bye to all of you! We have often discussed terrorism in the National Assembly over the past two months, and we could say that it is the same. However, it seems to me that, after all the discussions we have had, we still do not understand the essence of this problem. So we still don't understand that this is actually a structural problem. The proposed amendment to the Penal Code, which we are considering today, certainly does not solve this problem in this way, is said structurally. Then, indeed, we also discussed this at the December meeting of the National Assembly, and the predecessors repeated it several times. At the time of consideration of that first proposal, it was found that the changes were not, in fact, appropriate and not necessary. The Penal Code already contains provisions on the basis of which such offences can be prosecuted. The Penal Code defines participation in or assistance in criminal offences. It also defines the crime of participating in a group that commits a crime. This area is thus, in the Slovenian legal order, at least for the time being, roughly adjusted and the proposed amendments in the view of the United Left Group are not necessary, so we will not support this proposal. Not only is it unnecessary and unclear, but it is mainly because the problem is not being solved in an integrated and structural way. To understand the phenomenon of terrorism, we must first talk about the structural reasons for it, its origin and its existence. Instead of changing the Penal Code so quickly after unnecessary change, we must first find out where the reason for this is. The main mechanism proposed by this amendment of the law, which is also clear from the argument put forward by the applicant, is punishment or repression. In the United Left, however, we feel that only through repression or such measures can we not solve such a complex issue as the emergence of both extreme terrorist organisations. It is repeatedly repeated in how advanced Western European countries are taking action on this issue. However, the applicants forget about the UK, France, Spain, which, among other things, according to Europol, are also the most vulnerable to terrorism, particularly those based on religious grounds. In fact, countries that have begun to realize that the policy of terrorism has been wrong in the last ten years, that we need not only to suppress these terrorist fighters by repression and military aggression, but to find out in a more tolerant way why these phenomena are occurring. One of these, and many of these extreme warriors too, is social exclusion. Many French citizens, who are second or third generation descendants from Arab countries, etc., are simply not integrated into society and because they cannot participate equally in society as all other French citizens, are simply looking for an additional solution and a solution that offers them identification. Similarly, in Spain, Great Britain, these advanced European countries are beginning to understand that even with changes in criminal law we cannot address this issue. In Slovenia, we have not yet begun to look for these problems and to find solutions to these problems, but they are absolutely necessary. Solutions are needed to address the structural causes of conflicts at global level, poverty, economic exploitation, justifying military interventions with simple ideological dichotomys such as East and West; terrorism against democracy. All these excuses are moralising the political and economic context of implementation; moralisation requires answers that we will have to look beyond established political and economic frameworks. For the United Left, therefore, the bill before us offers neither an answer nor a solution to the root causes and is all too bent on strong stigmatisation on the basis of some difference. The introduction of crimes already defined in the Penal Code is simply unnecessary. Because of the planned and systematic hostile discourse, especially to foreigners, we still have a society that cultivates a range of prejudices to all kinds of differences, and we are witnessing this week — many times also religious — and this law only promotes it. Therefore, in the United Left, we will not support the proposal as appropriate for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u45	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – has the floor. For her mag. Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u46	Dear colleagues and colleagues! I am convinced that in Slovenia we underestimate terrorism. So far, we have been lucky that nothing has happened to us yet, but if we were in a situation like other countries, I'm sure we'd be looking at things very differently. For the time being, Slovenia still seems to be an extremely safe part of the world, but also in Slovenia a lot of unusual things are happening. A few years ago, an individual listened to a bomb attack on the then Prime Minister, and recently tried to organize a company that wanted a tanker, full of fuel, to seduce him into the National Assembly. Many things have happened, and fortunately, all these purposes and schemes of malicious societies have prevented our security authorities. What would happen if you didn't? There would have been a disaster. In such a situation, the National Assembly and also Members would likely be much more prepared to take rigorous measures that would in some way increase security in the country. The likelihood of a world-wide conflict is certainly lower today in the world. Today, however, the world is far more dangerous and far more unpredictable. Why is he more dangerous? Because of terrorism. Another special thing is, terrorists and terrorist organizations have changed their tactics dramatically in recent years. If, in the past, ten years ago, twenty-thirty years ago, activities and actions that have required a lot of logistical effort have been used, they have recently been engaged in low-cost logistics actions, as we have seen recently in France, which have been feared and against which countries are very difficult to act and prevent. Security and peace are, in a way, ideals that we are trying to achieve, which we are looking for, but we can never reach them in full. When we talk about security and peace, there are important measures by the state. For the actions of the country in New Slovenia, we see three points that can be improved: one is better information from intelligence services, the other is a greater initiative of our foreign policy and the third is a more effective legal framework. Today, we have the right to improve the legal framework through which we can act more effectively against terrorists and other criminal associations. But as it seems, this time we will wave and say, it's none of our business, it's not our problems, it's an excessive intervention into the freedom of an individual and things will go on until something bad happens. In these days, discussions are under way across Europe over the past months, discussions on what to do to effectively defend terrorism, and in particular what to do to defend the returnees from the Middle East, particularly the returnees from Syria and Iraq. In some countries, they have gone so far as to prevent you from continuing your journey or returning to crisis hotspots. In Slovenia, however, the government and the ministry insist that the current regime is good, but if we look at the practice, we find that it is not good. We had an example of two Syrian warriors who had returned to Slovenia, even in public speaking about these things, advertised, even boasted, said what painful experiences from this battlefield, but the country had virtually no leverage, had no legal framework to act against them. The house investigations that were carried out were not carried out because of this – or most likely because individuals participated in the fighting in Syria and Iraq, but the house investigations were made on the basis of the possession of weapons and other prohibited items. Practically our government and police have used similar stories, such as those of the twenty-thirties in America, to pin down one of the biggest criminals who have finally been caught on taxes, not on the things he's dealt with and done. Even the police themselves have expressed concern that there are no effective tools to act against terrorists. When we have this opportunity today to increase the powers of the police, as well as the chances of taking action against such warriors, we will probably just wave our hands and say that everything is all right, we will move on. In New Slovenia we would definitely like to take this topic more seriously, to be aware of all the dangers and to hesitate when we hesitate between security and freedom, to sometimes realize that security is even more important and that freedom itself without security is virtually no help. Therefore, in the New Slovenia Group we predict that we will support the proposed changes.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u47	The word is given by the Alliance's Group of Ambassadors, Mr Peter Wilphan.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u48	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! As you know, last December the National Assembly decided, after a general discussion, that the proposal to supplement the Penal Code was not suitable for further consideration. With a proposal, the SDS, following the adoption of United Nations resolution 2178, wanted to include the offences of foreign terrorist fighters in the Code last September. In the Alliance's Group, we expressed our support for the bill at that time, but we did not choose to support ourselves, because of our agreement with the solutions proposed, especially we wanted to point out to the Government that Slovenia must follow developments in the world more conscientiously and actively and take care of national security. The Government's actions and individual ministries have shown that, when security issues arise in the country, the government does not act in a sufficiently coordinated manner and that it does not approach the issue in an integrated manner. In the Alliance, we are pleased that the Government has also activated the National Security Council as the body responsible for coordinating the national security policy on the basis of the debate at that time and our calls for the treatment of Islamic extremism and terrorism. The Council did not meet until mid-January when the terrorist attacks occurred in France, a little late, but better than never. At that time, he also gave a security assessment in accordance with his tasks, under which circumstances do not dictate a rise in the level of risk assessment of Slovenia from the point of view of the operation of international terrorism in our territory. This assessment can be accepted as the Slovenian intelligence services and security authorities, or the police, are constantly monitoring the situation, carrying out the necessary activities and participating, as far as possible, with related services and bodies in Europe and the world. Their work is good and appropriate to the circumstances and powers they have. The last activities of the Government in the field of counter-terrorism also reassure us a little bit, members of the Committees of the National Court of Justice and Home Affairs took note of them at an emergency meeting last week. Certain amendments to the Slovenian Intelligence Act, the criminal procedure and the travel documents law, which would limit the expenditure of foreign terrorist fighters from the country or from the Schengen area, are to be promised. By decision of the Government that there is no Penal Code during the planned legislative changes, we are not satisfied in the Alliance. While we can agree with the Government in our work, it claims that the area of terrorism is properly regulated from Articles 108 to 111. We believe, too, that the SDS has again made a mistake by setting a follow-up to the above-mentioned United Nations resolution to the aim of the proposed solutions and that participation in armed conflicts has only been linked to terrorism. Finally, due to the fact that negotiations are currently under way on a new international treaty within the Council of Europe, the Additional Protocol on Foreign Terrorist Fighters to the European Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism, which will also be binding on Slovenia. However, we do not understand the Government or the competent minister to address issues of persecution and punishment of participation in an armed conflict outside the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, which is not related to terrorism, so non-chalant. We would like to draw attention to the broader dimensions of any involvement of Slovenian citizens and residents in wars and armed conflicts. As President of the Defence Committee, I would like to point out that we have so far followed the fundamental value of the Republic of Slovenia, which rejects any use of force in international relations and participation in wars. The third paragraph of Article 123 of the Constitution provides that the security of the State derives from the peace policy and culture of peace and non-violence. I am therefore convinced that this direction should also be followed by an internal legal order. In the context of a free and democratic society based on the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, it is not acceptable to non-incrimination of the use of armed or military forces against a fellow human being, even abroad. We do not care if individuals in armed conflicts and wars abroad participate for religious, ideological or any other reason. True, everyone has the right to defend or defend his family, relatives, faith, ethical affiliation, race, social order, territory, and so forth, but there are no just wars. Every war is a hell of a lot of innocent people die. Last year, in connection with the conflicts and wars currently raging in the Middle East and Eastern Europe, Pope Francis pointed out that war is never a suitable means to eliminate injustices and achieve balanced solutions to political and social differences. The war forces people into a barely manageable spiral of violence and destroys what entire generations have worked hard to build. The war creates a stage for even greater injustices and strife. We are also asked whether such individuals, whether they have dual citizenship or as foreigners, are still entitled to be part of our social community as citizens or residents. As you know, citizenship marks a special legal relationship between an individual and a country to which a system of values, rights and duties is bound, which must be respected both by the State and by the citizen. And in such cases, the question arises whether these individuals still identify themselves with our constitutional order and whether Slovenia still represents a country in which they can exercise their fundamental interests of life, because they in some way deny loyalty and loyalty to the State. I find it particularly unacceptable, however, that when the state ignores this issue, it is only the State that can decide on the use of force. Otherwise, if I can caricature a little bit, we come into the natural state that famous English philosopher Thomas Hobbes described as Bellum omnium contra omnes or war against all. I would like to point out that Slovenian citizens and residents of Slovenia have not only fought in the ranks of the Islamic State, but have participated or participated in other armed conflicts and wars abroad. Let me mention Bosnia and Herzegovina as part of the territory of our former Yugoslav common country, which survived the bloody period of war in the 1990s. At that time, various non-formal defensive forces, the structures of individuals who united in the fight against opposers in this war, also developed. Many foreign adventurers, mercenaries, criminals who came to BiH to fight a particular side in the war also appeared. In doing so, they either committed crimes, even war crimes, or they earned well or took advantage of them. Among them were Slovenian citizens and residents of Slovenia. As it is known, the competent authorities did not prosecute anyone for participating in this war, although today the Minister of Justice claims that this type of crime is already covered by the institutes of the general section of the Penal Code, which also contained the criminal code that was in force at the time. The only case I am aware of is the conviction of Slovenian citizen Franco Kos for crimes against humanity, as he participated in the killing of 800 Bosniaks from Srebrenica in 1995 as a member of the 10th Squad of the Serbian Army. However, the verdict was handed down by the Sarajevo court. We will support the amendment in the Alliance because we want to prepare the Government to deal with this issue in a serious and comprehensive manner. Even though it is regulated within criminal law, it is multi-layered and interdisciplinary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u49	The word is sent by the SMC Group, for her mag. Lilliana Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u50	Thank you, President. Dear Members and Members! The events to which we are witnessing in the world show that particular attention and concern must be given to addressing such terrorist acts, both in and outside Europe. The United Nations Security Council adopted Resolution 2178, which defines the term "foreign warrior" and requires the response of countries to prevent the recruitment, organisation, transport and equipping of foreign terrorist fighters on their soil. EU Member States have responded to this through various measures, including legal restrictions, definitions. Unanimity makes it even more difficult to prove these acts. We have before us a new amendment to the Penal Code, a concrete crime of terrorism and recruitment and training for terrorism. The applicant states in his explanation that the aim of the law is to fulfil the requirements of the resolution and that the national legal regime in force is inadequate. We see the proposal as a positive concern for security, and the question is whether the proposed regulation follows the principles of inaxioms of criminal substantive law, especially the principles of ultimatum ratio. Indeed, it is the last choice, but it does mean that the State commands that it does not go beyond what is strictly necessary by its coercion. Let me mention just a few key reasons that speak of the proposal not being followed and thus moving beyond the rule of law. The decision to incriminate a particular act is a result of a legal evaluation based on the degree of its social danger. The fundamental offence of terrorism, as defined in Article 108(1) of the Penal Code, is assessed at the highest level of social danger, and criminal sanctions are also imposed accordingly. The proposer proposes to abolish the serious level of social danger of defined enforcement acts while maintaining the same criminal sanction, which means that this would change the fundamental definition of terrorism and at the same time violate the principle of proportionality in the regulation of criminal sanctions. Furthermore, in the same basic crime, it adds a new qualified form of terrorism and sanctions those who intend to participate or participate in armed conflict outside the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposer proposes to incriminate the intention of participation and prescribes for it a penalty for imprisonment ranging from 5 to 15 years. From the point of view of criminal law theory and comparable international standards, it is unacceptable that the criminality field should be moved to the previous first phase, that is, naked slander. We can't imagine anyone being criminally responsible for what he thinks, feels, or even what's wrong with his mind. Incriminating acts of pre-emption. The adoption of the proposed solution would constitute a direct violation of human rights, which makes this European space so different. When we use the Penal Code, we cannot read it partialally, but we must use it as a whole, that is, its general and its special part. If the applicant had done so, he would have found that the proposed regulation in Articles 108 and 111 overlaps with existing institutions in the general and specific parts of the Penal Code. The general part is already defined as criminal offences of a particular type of criminal offence, such as participation in the form of instigation, assistance and co-operation. These provisions provide a sufficient legal basis to incriminate participation in terrorist acts pursued by the amendment. As a specific crime, however, terrorism, terrorist financing, protection, public promotion of terrorist acts, recruitment and training for terrorism, criminal association, public promotion of hatred, violence and intolerance. Furthermore, only the participation of individuals in the group is defined as a specific offence in Article 298. However, the competent law enforcement authorities say that there is a real problem in proving these acts, not in the legal framework. Perpetrators use modern means, especially the Internet, and law enforcement authorities do not yet have sufficient authority to control all of this. In addition, there is a absence in these areas of their intelligence and services that could provide relevant information. The security authorities at national level are carrying out a number of activities in the field of prevention, detection and fight against terrorism, as presented to us at the previous meeting for this purpose, as well as a number of projects in the field of counter-terrorism, which may later be under discussion. At the Council of Europe level, a new international treaty is being drafted within the framework of the Council of Europe, an additional protocol on foreign terrorist fighters to the European Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism to be presented in May. In view of the uniform criminal law framework, it will also be clear whether we will also need to amend criminal law. The SMC Group welcomes the activities of the applicants to address the counter-terrorism problem, but considers that they are not entirely appropriate, as the current criminal legislation already criminalises most of the proposed amendments. At the same time, we support the Government's activities towards international action at the Council of Europe level, and at the same time note the need to respect the principle of the protection of human rights and the proportionality of action in these measures. Criminologist Cesare Beccaria said that she did not ensure that certain acts would no longer be committed and advocated for human rights because of the incrimination of certain acts. The fact is that radicalisation, which we are witnessing, must be tackled not only by repressive measures but rather by preventive measures in society. The proposal for amendments due to that SMC Group will not be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u51	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin, get Mrs. Ksenija Root Kramar ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u52	Colleagues and colleagues! Discussions on terrorism are currently on the table in many European countries. This is one of the things that parliaments, governments are doing intensively. If I go a little bit back to the point, which is what I'm trying to say. According to intelligence in the Syrian and Iraqi battlefields, there are already thousands of Europeans involved. According to known data, individuals from Slovenia, from some European countries, go not only into hundreds, but also into thousands. The problem that will arise is what will happen when these warriors start returning to their homeland, to the country where they went to the battlefield. We have three options for what's gonna happen. One possibility is that simply disappointed at the war in which they participated, registered do nothing and practically in some of the pains, traumas live on. Another possibility is that the war, which is highly likely, in Syria and Iraq further radicalises them to make further efforts to gain additional fighters, promote participation in this war, and encourage their fellow thinkers to go there. And thirdly, the most dangerous option is to radicalise themselves when they return to their homeland to the point where they start carrying out terrorist actions. We must not forget that high-level representatives of the so-called Islamic State, through various methods of information, have called on Muslims and their country's sympathizers to do something, however, in European countries, to see how they can peacefully when European countries are mediating against ISIL that something must be done. Let us ask ourselves what will happen when individuals respond to this call. And as I said before, I have a feeling that these things don't interest us very much to get them out with our left hand, czech, because it's not our thing, it's a matter of world powers. Let us not forget, Slovenia has joined that coalition against ISIL and we are in some way on the radar of these terrorist organisations. If our soldiers are not involved in operations against ISIL, this does not mean that certain terrorist activities cannot happen in the field of Slovenia. But, as I said, because of the happiness we have had in all these years, we have virtually no real relationship with these security risks. Thank God, we are the only European or the only Nato country that has never had a single fatality in all of these operations, thank God. We are one of the few countries in which a greater terrorist act has not been committed. And these are probably the reasons why we look at this whole terrorism-related story a little bit milder and not as resolutely as in many other countries. If you follow the last discussions in Germany, there you can find that the discussions are mainly in the direction of what action the State should take in the case of such fighters. Is the seizure of travel documents excessive interference with individual freedom? States are deciding on different measures, particularly as I said before, they are fluctuating between freedom and security. Greater security also requires greater intervention in freedom. And where terrorist activities are more burdened, there are attacks on freedom, and there is greater security. The examples we have had in Slovenia speak in the direction that our legislation against members of terrorist organisations, or that I am more exact, against members who have participated in the framework of terrorist organisations, does not have an effective legal framework. Many of you have previously stressed and acknowledged in your views the fact that in the Penal Code we have a number of articles talking about terrorism and the fight against terrorism, but that the main point and problem is to prove these acts. Even though it says that terrorist financing is prohibited, that promotion is prohibited, and everything else referred to in the Penal Code, the State has a major problem in proving it. And the proposal before us today in some way facilitates these things by incriminating the involvement of an individual in the units of a particular terrorist organisation. It is not necessary for the State to prove that an individual has committed a heinous act in the Syrian battlefield, which most likely would be extremely difficult for the State to prove and practice to this end. However, it is much easier to prove that someone has participated in organised units of terrorist organisations, organisations on the international list of terrorist organisations. I think that's a step forward. Ordinary citizens, or those who are not radicalised, have virtually nothing to fear. It's not an intervention in their freedom. Whether this is an excessive intervention in the freedom of an individual, it is my view that those who live in accordance with the laws and in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia have virtually nothing to fear. However, all those who have evil intentions against the Republic of Slovenia and other individuals may fear these new provisions. And that's why at least as far as I'm concerned, I'm on the side of those who think things need to be sharpened. Before that, I said that for security and peace, everything must be done, but these are the ideals that we are looking for. The country has more tools to try to ensure these two ideals, of course it can never fully guarantee them, but it can help us to get as close as possible with our actions and institutions. I've said before that according to our assessment, there are three important elements here. The effective legal framework that we are talking about today and for which this Parliament is most responsible. We parliamentarians are the ones responsible for providing the security and intelligence services with an effective legal framework. Secondly, it seems important to me that we have effective intelligence services. And the third time, well, responsible, proactive foreign policy. The first point, the legal framework, I think I've said enough, I don't need to continue to explain things. I hope one of you will change your mind and still support greater security. Another thing that I think is that intelligence services are more effective or better functioning. You know, in today's world, information is crucial. For the sake of good information, a certain terrorist act can be prevented. But because of the bad guys, it happens. If we go back to history a little longer, we can find out that good intelligence has caused wars to be fought or lost. Consider, for example, North America, North Africa, in World War II, how crucial intelligence and data were at that time and how certain information could change the course of history. In my opinion, our intelligence services are not the best, and they could be much better. We have an owl, we have military intelligence, and we have police. I am confident that our intelligence and security sector would need some serious reform from which two intelligence services should come out. One dealing with external threats and one dealing with internal ones. Why? Today’s Owl, which was built on the fence of the former SDV, is practically a service that devotes a great deal of time to dealing with itself. WHOM still counts who is whose, who works for whom, and this takes the energy needed to deal with the real ones for whom it is sent and for whom it should work. Military Intelligence is a small service, from which it is difficult to expect a great deal of efficiency, and from a synergistic point of view it would be quite different if we were part of a larger service. But with the police, the situation is that you know that it's human and financially malnourished. That he's got bad equipment. That our technology, controlled by the communications and other activities of criminals and terrorists, is sadly lagging behind. The result is finance. I think that in this sense and in this spirit all these three services should be reorganised, reorganised and provided with the necessary resources to enable them to do so effectively. Like I said, until nothing happens, it's okay, once something happens, then we start looking for the culprits. Perhaps today’s debate is also an opportunity for us to think ahead and find out what should be done. The third point that seems important to me in the fight against terrorism is foreign policy. In addition to the legal framework of good intelligence services, which provide us with key information, our external policy is also. Although small, it can be particularly important in the Balkans. I think what's been going on in Bosnia lately is worrying. There are villages, perhaps even cities that radicalize, with unusual missions or very radical missions. I think this is also due to an ineffective Dayton agreement. If anything, it turns out that Dayton doesn't work in Bosnia anymore. I think that Slovenia has been called by its foreign policy to take some initiative at this point. We know the environment, the relations between us, and if we took an important step forward for stability in Bosnia, for stability in the Balkans, we would do the most for our domestic security. Every time things got tough in the Balkans, this was best known in Slovenia. I, in particular, miss our greater initiative here, in particular the greater initiative of our foreign policy. There will be many excuses that we are too small, that our country and our foreign policy service are simply too small to make serious moves in a world where they decide to rule. But I recently read the OECD study, which showed how important the impact of individual foreign ministers, including small foreign ministers, can be. Because of all the institutions established in the world during the 20th century, the personal approach of the Foreign Minister is crucial because of new technologies and numerous communications and meetings of foreign ministers. If at all these meetings the foreign minister is active, insightful, then the rulers also listen to him many times. And I think that, as far as the Balkans is concerned, they would be happy to listen to us, because we have knowledge and we also have other resources to contribute to things starting in the right direction. Those of you who say that they are exactly unregulated world conditions or poverty are one of those things that drives many individuals to radicalize themselves and to start carrying out terrorist activities, I agree with these thoughts. But our job is to ask ourselves what we're going to do to at least ease these things, because we're never going to stop them. I therefore listed these three points that need to be done in order to reduce the threat of terrorism and terrorist activities in Slovenia. I think we have a proposal before us that we can take a step forward. It would be wise for the parliamentarians to support it because this would provide a better tool for our security services. Of course, we always get caught up in a partying or coalition discipline or what it is called in modern terms. I think that if you look at other countries, then you can see that at least the foreign policy and the security and defence of certain countries are two types of policies where usually the coalition and the opposition are relatively uniform or work together for the interests of the country. And today, for example, the amendment of the Penal Code is one where we can show a greater degree of unity and contribute our share that we can make to make the country more secure. When you as Members or all of us as Members walk around a variety of round tables and question what we can do and what more needs to be done, we talk too often about things that should be done by someone else, but we are not talking enough about things that we should do on our own. Today’s opportunity is a unique opportunity to do for ourselves what is absolutely necessary. As I have already foretold, I will support these changes, and I can only hope that most of them will be in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Jean-Mahnič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, Vice President. According to the discussions, things are the same as they were. The attitudes are the same as they were, although quite a few things have changed at that time. If, together in December, in my fellow Members, I had pointed out what would happen on behalf of the Islamic State, and if then some of you smiled at it, I see that some of you are still alive today, Paris, for which the Islamic State has taken responsibility, has happened. Then came Denmark, the responsibility of the Islamic State again. More. After the attack on Paris, the representatives of the Islamic State said that it was only the beginning of a war against the international coalition fighting the Islamic State that France, Germany, the United Kingdom, Belgium, the United States, Canada and the other European countries would turn. But I must say, I don't understand you on the one hand. You said in December that it was too much to give a new article with five, six paragraphs that we went too general. But then, on January 23rd, when we re- tabled the matter, we gave only two new paragraphs, very concrete, and again, we are not okay, but we are too concrete. Look, you're gonna have to decide to look at the magnetograms back so you don't at least speak contradictoryly about what you said at the previous session. Together, both the Government and Desus and the SMC are mainly the problem, if I understand correctly, this intention after participation, "who wants to achieve the purpose referred to in the first paragraph by intending to participate" – what is the problem here? It's not about thinking that I think I'm going down. Do you know what is meant to be involved or to prevent intended participation? It's about arresting someone at the airport, what other countries do. It's a counter-intention. Do we have such a law? We don't! If people walk down to us normally. We don't! Or we do not have the resources to prevent this matter. And here I agree, much needs to be done also in amending the Criminal Procedure Act, because we know that one of the problems is also the evidentiary standard. These are acts that are difficult to prove, which is the problem to prove. Here I agree with the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. But on the other hand, what Mr Tonin has said is how our intelligence services work, I have a serious problem giving them more powers. Even though I'm about to be able to give the Owls more authority. Even more, without Owl presenting evidence and then the police are starting again so that these evidence, even in the case of terrorism, will be valid in the courts. But as long as we have an Owl like this, where they're breaking up inside, if I say domestically, where we know what picnics they have, where we know they've been shot by former SDV agents, I find it hard to trust an intelligence service like that. You know, it's hard to fight terrorism with more democracy. It's hard. But human rights are important. Nobody wants us to work here in Guantanamo. But with intent to participate, we do not interfere with any rights. If we have evidence, if the intelligence has evidence, if there's any intelligence, I believe and I hope, but that he's following all the extremist movements, he probably knows if he's being followed by who's moving there, what their intentions are. And then they probably know when and where to go to the battlefield. And not only in ISIS, because of me, even if it goes to Ukraine, it would also be a crime under this law. Then this man stops. And that's a counter-intention. Not only will someone – I believe that you will strongly oppose this because it is so for your freedom and human rights that your ministers will oppose what the European Commission currently wants on passenger data, with regard to data on the year, so that all of this can be collected. I expect a great deal of Slovenia's involvement in this area so that this implementation will not take place. I don't mean that if I'm going to go on a website right now and watch airline tickets or look for a way to Turkey, then go on to Syria. Yeah, that could be the intention after the participation. It could be as Mrs Porotat said, but what about journalists and tourists. But someone who goes there with a clear purpose, like we had the case of buying an airline ticket to Iran and buying an automatic rifle a month earlier, I don't know if he's going to go down a "spilat" of a tourist or a medical worker who comes back with a rocket. I don't know if our nurses have rocket launchers. I don't think so. As far as criminality is concerned: inviolable. And when you said that if we accepted that, it would mean that we didn't have foreign terrorist fighters punished so far. Mrs. Popot, there have been no foreign terrorist fighters so far. They appeared in United Nations Resolution 2178. In the spring, as you said, the Council of Europe is supposed to be preparing its package of measures, I expect the Council of Europe to propose that the entire European Union adopt the Penal Code of the Republic of Slovenia, because it is ideal for all of us. I'll be disappointed if there's no other proposal. Exactly Articles 108 to 111. That the EU proposes that all countries adopt such a criminal code because it is ideal for us because they can follow our criminal code. And I hope and believe, given the words that our ministers will oppose any other version of the criminal code or proposals of the anti-terrorist package concerning changes in criminal law. The other is travel documents and others. In Germany, things have gone so far as to talk about their citizens fighting in the Islamic State, who have been proven to be there to have their passports revoked and never to return. Or Austria, or Belgium, where it was introduced that minors, because we know that there is also a problem with minors, that there is a great deal of participation in these matters, that they do not explicitly without the permission of parents to leave the Schengen area at all. They also take away travel documents. But this is in other countries, I can say that to some extent normal, because they are aware of the importance of security because they are aware that if someone has a serious intention to go there, they will probably come back. As has already been said, there is a great moral collapse, a loss of warmth, because the Islamic State is militarily losing. And that's why these people are gonna start coming back and we know what's gonna happen next. If we stop them from leaving here, they can't even go there, that's in 108. Article, and we also sanction those who then come back. I have read one magazine before the session today, and I will have to read one article here from Legal Practice. I believe that lawyers put a lot on this magazine, even if there is one article before I read it, article by Dr. Jasna Murgelj, your MP. I assume this magazine is relevant to you. And here's an article by Matjaž Šaloven, a lawyer at the Law Office of Shaloven. The title is also Slovenia will have to amend penal legislation due to ISIL. "ISIL is increasing its military and financial power in the Middle East day after day-to-day, in many areas it has defeated and banished the Iraqi and Syrian forces and occupied parts of Iraq and Syria, including many weapons left behind by both withdrawing armies. According to the US Central Intelligence Agency, ISIL is expected to have 20,000 to 31 000 fighters in Syria and Iraq and has become the largest and most powerful terrorist organization in the world." Let me go on: "It is not to be overlooked that, according to some estimates, there are between 2,000 and 7,000 European extremists fighting in Iraq and Syria, with the concern of the Islamic extremists, who train and use suicide bombers, including children, to achieve their goals. The fact that European extremists are a real threat that needs to be addressed quite seriously also shows developments in the immediate neighbourhood or the Balkans. It is estimated that some 300 Islamic extremists from Kosovo, Macedonia, Bosnia and Montenegro are fighting in Syria and Iraq at the beginning of last year, and it can be concluded that the number of these people has increased in the past, in parallel with the rapid spread and military successes of ISIL in recent months. Otherwise, it is true that some Europeans fought on both sides, even in Ukraine, but these fighters are not as much a threat as they tend to be for mercenaries who do not normally lead fanatical and extreme religious motives as in the case of ISIL in Syria and Iraq. Similarly, many other European and other countries around the world recognize the considerable danger posed by their own extremists. For example, the Dutch authorities note that some 130 Dutch extremists have decided to fight in Syria and Iraq, which is why the Dutch Foreign Minister Ivo Opstelten announced that the Netherlands is planning to withdraw citizenship to short-lived groups that have joined terrorist groups even before a judicial decision is issued. Even more severe sanctions have been imposed for their nationals who are fighting abroad in the United Arab Emirates, where a prison sentence of up to 20 years is envisaged for the membership of a terrorist organisation or for fighting abroad. Recently, a special criminal court in Riad, Saudi Arabia, sentenced two Saudi Arab nationals to 5 years in prison for their participation in fighting in Syria and, at the same time, banned travel from the country at the same time. Saudi Arabia also estimates that more than 2,000 Saudis have been fighting for ISIL. From a legal and security point of view, it is appropriate to point out and point out the absence of legal mechanisms to prevent European extremists from going to the battlefields in Iraq and Syria. Slovenian legislation is also inadequate in this regard, as only participation in fighting abroad is not criminal, nor is it possible for potential European Islamic extremists to limit movement or deprive them of their liberty if such persons are not necessarily suspected of a specific crime and if there are no grounds to do so at the same time. Like most other countries, Slovenia will have to take certain measures either by supplementing individual articles of the Penal Code or by introducing other legal mechanisms or even both with a view to preventing or limiting the departure of ISIL supporters from fighting and training abroad." Now what is most important: "The Penal Code in the chapter on crimes against humanity contains a number of detailed provisions on terrorism, the financing of terrorism, the protection and public promotion of terrorist acts, the recruitment and training of terrorism and the recruitment of foreign troops. However, in the case of the offence of recruiting for a foreign army, it would make sense to extend this article in substance by providing that recruitment to combat or training in terrorist organisations is prohibited at the same time, since this article merely prohibits the recruitment of a foreign army, among which the Islamic State cannot be replaced. In addition, Article 111 of the Penal Code does not cover all emerging forms developed by the development of ISIL and the participation of foreign fighters in fighting or training in ISIL-controlled areas. The provisions of this Article refer only to the recruitment of offences under Article 108 of the Penal Code or to participation in the commission of such a terrorist act, but in cases of recruitment for ISIL it is not necessary that those who recruit also encourage the commission of terrorist acts or terrorist acts as provided for in Article 108 of the Penal Code. Many supporters of ISIL perceive ISIL as an ideal Islamic religious concept, so it is not necessary that all those who join ISIL or go to the battlefields under its control, when they leave, also have the actual purpose of carrying out terrorist acts either in areas under ISIL or when they return to their own country." And so on. This was published in the Legal Bang, where, as I said, Members of the Mir Cerar Party apparently also publish. So, exactly these things, the things that are missing in the Penal Code, and the things that are missing in the other laws that, as you said, you're changing them or you're preparing them. And as far as we're concerned, we're hand-cuffed. Mrs. Poropat, how long has it been for you? You know, I listen here whenever you change the constitution that these things change with a shaky hand, but our hand has obviously been shaking since 1991. Whenever such a change is needed, we always listen to it so as not to rush. Obviously, we are only aware of this security situation here in this Parliament in the SDS, New Slovenia and the Alliance. The rest of the groups head to the sand and there's nothing. It's like we're some isolated island that's not concerned, some small Slovenia. But this small Slovenia is a neighbour of Italy. We now have an Islamic state in Libya. And this Islamic State in Libya has announced that in the coming months, the security of Europe will shake in such a way that it will send 500,000 refugees from Libya to Italy. And among these refugees will be Islamic extremists. The Italians are preparing serious measures in this area. They want to restore some of the former military operations that have already existed in the past. But we, who are the neighbouring country and the window in some way then for central Europe and beyond to the east, are like nothing. It's like it's none of our business. I believe that these two paragraphs should be written that these two paragraphs should be adopted and added to the criminal code, and above all I believe that the word "severe" should be deleted. Who with the intention of destroying or seriously endangering constitutional foundations. May someone tell me — what is the difference between endangering constitutional foundations or seriously endangering constitutional foundations? What's the difference? In any event, the constitutional foundations of the Republic of Slovenia, other countries or international organisations are at risk. There's no difference to me here. The difference is only due to the consequences that may arise in the event of any threat to constitutional regulation. That's why that word doesn't belong in here. The three constitutional elements of the country are territory, people and power. I will not lose words about power because the debate itself is today and your awareness of these matters tells us a lot about our authority. We all know how it is with regard to territory. The party today, which is one of the smaller here, at the time it was the largest when it was adopted, is likely to be able to tell a lot about the territory when the arbitral tribunal's judgment comes. But as for the third element, this is the people, these are the people, and this is what we have to go for. These are the ones for which we must work. And if we don't do anything for their safety, then it really makes sense to ask about the other two constitutional elements. As I said, it's no mental delicacy, no one will control anyone, no one will watch, Google these countries, or be punished for a variety of ways. It is to prevent those who intend to participate, who are either already prepared to do so, whether they are leaving or just crossing the territory of Slovenia at this time in order to participate in fighting in other countries and to jeopardize their foundations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Mahnic, please, Mrs Porotat read the position of the Group of Members and it was not correct, because you know that she cannot defend herself because she has not yet discussed it. Please, if you do not refer to an individual by name to the Group of Members. Thank you very much. Mrs. Xenia Krenjak Kramar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u56	Thank you so much for saying that. I am going to refer to this debate of my colleague, whom I certainly understand as a positive concern for the security of the people and territories of the Republic of Slovenia. But I will return to this debate, which is the subject of debate today. So in your proposal that in the criminal offence of terrorism, in Article 108(1), we define its basic form and as a proposal you propose, as I understand it, to put an end to the high degree of risk of the consequences of the commissioning of acts and to propose incrimination of any kind, including the lowest degree of risk of those acts as terrorism, which is contrary to the basic definitions of terrorism and also without respect for the principle of proportionality relating to the maintenance of the same criminal sanction. Furthermore, you add to the basic offence a qualified form, which also criminalises the naked intention of participation. This is not only from what I have said, but also from the point of view of criminal law theory, but also from international standards is by no means acceptable. And not only in this meeting of the National Assembly, but also in a number of sessions before that, we have devoted a great deal of time to the debate on respect for human rights. And I think that we are the only ones here at this point who advocate this respect for human beings right and that is why we must not allow such changes and proposals to take place. With only naked intent, crime would become not a preparatory act, but what is before it is a grave offense to human rights. From this point of view, this is truly unacceptable. To come back to this case that you cited and so vividly described with various "arms to get one or the other" with arrests at airports, etc. If this case were carefully analyzed, you would see that you were already in preparation, not on purpose. You were also talking about evidence. However, evidence is so many light years away from just the naked purpose if we analyze and give such examples. For all of this, for both preparatory and evidence purposes, we have a basis in the Penal Code and in existing crimes. Thus in general work, you yourself have already cited individual crimes according to the articles so that I will not repeat them now, so we also have in the general part concerning participation, and then also in the specific part of the Penal Code, so this additional incrimination is not necessary. Let me remind you of two more aspects. One is that the Council of Europe's action is in preparation, this is the adoption of a protocol on foreign terrorist fighters to the European Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism. The measure will be presented in substance in May of this year. I think that, of course, it is appropriate then to see how the wider European community will approach this issue and identify individual signs of crime, and only on the basis of the experience and views that will be presented there will we perhaps come up with a proposal and identify ourselves in this regard in the consideration of any change. Once again, I stress in this place that the regulation we have, therefore, criminal acts which are in general and special work in the Penal Code, are already sufficiently criminalising such situations and such acts. One more thing. We're moving here on a thin line of evidence, intent, thought of it. We are moving in a very icy area, and I think that in such a case it is even more important that we clearly define individual concepts and institutions, that we know what stage we are in. There are many reasons why such and other sanctions do not occur to us if I may express myself more in the afternoon – because we do not have enough evidence. If we don't have them, we can't just do it because he's thinking about it, he's reading about the fact that if I'm doing a little cartooning now, we can't prosecute. Here we must follow that such persecution must be very strict and must be based on evidence and not on thinking that someone meant something. That would be wrong. Not only wrong, but a grave violation of human rights. To conclude with this third, what I wanted to point out in particular, is that in recent times, documents and proposals on the fight against terrorism have been prepared: a record of air passengers, changes to the CAP-J are being prepared and, you yourself have said, the Travel Charter Act. In this context, Slovenia is not in any way indifferent, responding to what is happening in the world. But it is precisely because we need to act thoughtfully here, in terms of respect for human rights, that we must bear in mind that we do not interfere in an area where it is not necessary, either because we have it or because it would make it worse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Here you go, Secretary Darko Stara.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u58	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Member, given that we have already discussed this thoroughly and I think we have been very constructively discussed at the joint meeting of the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Internal Affairs, and in view of today's debate and the repetition of these, I would say, legally incorrect arguments, I will, in case, try to raise awareness of what we are talking about today. You suggest that if you were to go to Syria tomorrow night in one of the companies at the inn, you should publish this next day to the Slovenian newspaper, and you should be convicted of it from 5 to 15 years of age. And if we repeated it three times, it would be justified to make it 10 instead of 5 years. And given how much you stand up for this, I would expect you to read it in the paper, so that you'll come out on your own. We are talking about human rights, freedom, established practices, many years. Slovenia has also been a democratic country for some time, where individual freedom is at the heart of respect for human rights. And as has been pointed out many times today, we are talking about a huge pretense, in law we are also saying something similar, although it is not the same, but reservatio mentalis, we all know that we have incriminated murder, murder, crimes against sexual inviolability. But if someone says, "I'm going to hit you, I'm going to break your arm," that doesn't mean that this man can be prosecuted and convicted because it's a felony, it's a felony. And the point of the blame is that you want what's forbidden, you want to do, and you want to do what's forbidden. This is a matter of proof. You also refer to practice in European countries. I say that Slovenian criminal legislation has a relatively exemplary field of terrorism compared to other countries. The purpose of this Protocol, which is now under preparation, is to unify the signs, even conceptually, not only in terms. In the law, children in England mean something else, as a child in Slovenia, because age limits are different. In short, it is necessary to know that the individual expressions used in essence as signs of a crime have some meaning, some content. And the purpose is to understand and talk about the same under a certain term. I think it's right and appropriate, because I believe you have a good intention to hear the opposite arguments. You have read an article by an expert or a lawyer. The essence of this communication, from my point of view, is to remind you that the Penal Code does not only mention Article 108, which is linked to terrorism, but there are five, six others, and also repeatedly mentions the criminal association or participation in groups that are responsible for crimes. In short, some actual state of affairs, some event of life, is being subsumed under those signs that exist. And once again, I want to point out, we are talking about an individual, we are talking about a human being, and we cannot afford to live in such a society alone, that if someone says something about getting 15 years in prison for this. Let us distinguish between standardizing what is forbidden and the ability of the State and its authorities to prove what is forbidden. In a fair and correct manner. That's what we're talking about. But I absolutely agree, as you yourself have said, that is the ultimate measure, the ultimatum race, is more learned. However, terrorism is prevented by prevention, through preventive measures, by including those who are essentially frustrated for such or other reasons and then resort to such measures for other unacceptable measures and methods. In this area, Slovenia is very active, actively cooperating with the Member States of the European Union and also more broadly, and in particular, all national security authorities and entities are very active in this area. You had your chance on the boards last week to hear something. And I think it is right that concern is permanent, that we are trying to strengthen all measures, especially preventive measures, especially those involving people and limiting the conditions for an individual to act on such methods and measures against others at all. But you have to be aware that the system is not bad. On the contrary, it is relatively good, effective, but never so good that it could not be even better. We all know that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u59	Mr. Secretary of State, thank you very much. Mr. Jan Mahnic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u60	Thank you, Vice President. I wouldn't have answered if I didn't know one thing, namely that Mr Darko Old was Deputy Director of the Owl. And if the Deputy Director of the Owl starts talking to me in the opening speech about the inn, how people are being listened to, that someone there will say that he was in Syria, I will start to believe slowly more and more to those media who write that Owl or some pair-of-sowa, now I don't know, you were officially in Owl, I don't know what it's like with para-sowa. Apparently, there are a bunch of coffeemakers who go from the inn to the inn and, of course, order some people to listen to. I hope it's with the inn and whoever's saying something is saying it. Since you were Deputy Director of the Owl, you probably know that's not what I meant either, that someone would say there at the inn, but tomorrow I'm going to Syria and they'll arrest him as soon as he gets out of the inn. That's not what this is about. We know that intelligence services, if they are on the spot, follow things, have information about one of the schemes itself, is said to come to the inn or anywhere else because of me, or when they are looking for a route, when they already have an airline ticket for a particular country, which, by the way, is a neighbor when they buy a weapon and go away, let's say, to the airport. There's a difference, isn't there? From this path to where it is known and determined, of course it will go there. Or when someone's either joking or just saying it. So I'm asking you nicely, Mr. Old, that you don't twist my words, and that you don't misinterpret me. I agree with the inclusion of those on the side of society, but so far there has obviously been little fighting, not just with us, even in the other countries of the European Union, so that these people are then using such actions and going to such countries as they are. And just to put an end to human rights. We strongly support human rights, but you know, I have serious problems when a minority who invokes human rights is at the same time violating the human rights of others. That's what I'm having trouble with.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mrs Maria Antonija Kovacič has the floor. He doesn't want to. Then I give my word to Mr Matjaž the German. Here you go, Mr. German.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u62	President, thank you so much for your word. And I must say that I welcome today's debate. I must say that this is still a reflection of the awareness of some of the events around us that are facts. As has already been said today, our continent, the European Union, Europe, however, is in some sense in the midst of violence and some geopolitical changes, starting with Ukraine, if we look at the border between Syria and Turkey, what is happening, what information, as has already been said, comes from Libya. Let me mention here that, three weeks ago, I think, I listened to a similar debate in the Italian Parliament for 14 days, as soon as intelligence data arrived that ISIS fighters wanted to get as many of their fighters as possible through humanitarian organisations in the territory of the Republic of Italy. But these are the facts we need to talk about. While my personal opinion is that Slovenia must monitor things, but not among the most vulnerable countries, I will say, from a pragmatic point of view, because I think that if terrorists thought about action in Europe, they would probably choose another one first. But, well, this is the subject of experts talking, not us in Parliament. That's my personal opinion. As far as the amendment of the Code is concerned, however, as we have been accustomed to these discussions since at least 2001, I speak in this form when I speak of the last millennium. We all know 11 September and all the measures that were then so drastic on all continents. And there is always discussion about where freedom is, where human rights are on the one hand and on the other, security or national security, as we like to call it, is a thin border. Even when we talk about prevention and curate, we often confuse concepts and do not know where to prevent and where to resort. But I think that there is a good discourse in Slovenia, as it has already been on the committee. It has been said that in fact, some measures are being taken or are being taken to satisfy that we can formally fight against the intentions of various individuals, who are actually individuals in our country. We have experience that we can count on the fingers of one hand. While other European countries are in a different position. There's a few hundred in there, and most of all a few thousand potential fighters, or already, I'll say, religious fanatics, if I may say so myself. Each country is per se, we have to deal with it separately. We know that Slovenia is in a rather transportable area, including surrounded by centres, as has already been said, with religious centres. Vienna, on the other hand, is the vicinity of Bosnia and Herzegovina, where several hundred kilometers away were the flag of this informal army of ISIS. It is so right that we have this debate. Although I think that our legislation is good enough, as experts like to tell us, that actual legislation contains all these requirements, which can be done as a post-festum or in terms of prevention. Today we have been exposed to strengthening our services, security and intelligence, the police, which I absolutely agree with. I think this should be our priority, more than changing the Penal Code. But, well, it's a matter of your own judgment. What can Slovenia contribute? I hope I'm clear enough about putting Slovenia in neutral states. I must say that thanks to my very good friendship with Bosnia, we have a bad experience with workers and their rights in the past, but in general these are good relations. We respect all religious communities, that's what everyone recognizes. And also because of this, the relationship of extremists towards Slovenia has been relatively tolerant so far. I think we need to work on this, above all, to strengthen dialogue, to strengthen communication. I also proposed to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in this regard a fact that was somehow inspired by the events that took place in Oslo at the end of February. Let me remind you that in response to the violence, representatives of the Jewish community and the Muslim community have concluded a human ring around the synagogue in order to strengthen relations, and this was the response to events in Denmark, Paris, at the final stage of the weekly event in Dresden. We must be aware that this is also happening and that any country can respond to conflict in one way or another. I think Slovenia is in a position to strengthen intercultural dialogue. Let me remind you, this has already been discussed on the committees as well, we have an extraordinary institution. Otherwise, I say, some may be critical, some may not, but I'm talking about potential, this is the international university of EMUNI, which is in Portorož. We were just talking about the role that this has to play. But above all, I see this university, which is present, in particular to strengthen intercultural dialogue in the Euro-Mediterranean area. It can be an institution in Slovenia that strengthens dialogue and let us know, however, that the Slovenians are doing things differently, through dialogue, not by restricting human rights and dignity. I'm saying, this is a matter of philosophy, how the state wants to protect itself from external influences. In view of the geopolitical situation, given the intercultural, interfaith relations Slovenia has with all factors, I think that Slovenians can afford this privilege to deal with the problem-solving dialogue, not the restriction. And that would be my suggestion. I welcome the proposalr's intention, above all, to talk about this, this is very important, it is around us, but not to respond to phenomena with restraint, but to strengthen dialogue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! This topic is, of course, topical because of developments in the world. But it's not just now, it's been active since the twins were attacked. While new forms of terrorist crime are emerging, criminal legislation is also appropriate. Our penal legislation is not so old that it does not follow these events that have occurred and are currently taking place in Syria and Iraq. As for the novel of the Penal Code, I must say that it saves nothing. It is proposed that the word "worrisome" be deleted in the Penal Code in the first paragraph. In the first paragraph of the Penal Code, the problem is that we have two words: "Woe." If this is deleted, we will extend the scope of this Penal Code to such bizarre cases that the matter is completely out of the question. I'll tell you in concrete terms. Let's just talk a little bit more about what's wrong, what might be and what isn't. Thus says our existing criminal code: "Who, in order to destroy or seriously endanger the constitutional, economic, social or political foundations of the Republic of Slovenia or another country, for example Syria or Iraq, or an international organization, in order to severely intimidate the population or to force the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or another country or international organization to do or abandon, do or threaten to commit one of the following offences: an attack on life, it is said, murder, kidnapping, hostage-taking, hijacking of an aircraft, everything is captured, even disruption or interruption of water supply. All of this is covered by these practices, which are defined by the Criminal Code as terrorist. If we adopt this bill and say that it is a crime for someone to just intimidate the population, to cause a disruption or disruption of water supply — do you know what that means? That someone in the village says he's gonna shut down the water to intimidate the other Soviets for some reason means this terrorist act. The sentence is from 3 to 15 years. If we accept this, we accept this range of criminal code. Everything will be terrorist, every threat. We can't agree to that. That would be unacceptable. So, the threat of shutting down the water. As regards participation in armed conflicts outside the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. That's already incriminating, too. So says the existing criminal code, that not only is it incriminated and punished that the person who commits the killings that kidnaps aircraft closes the water for the purpose of severe intimidation of the population, but also those who prepares or assists in the commission of crimes by illegally obtaining the necessary resources, such as weapons, I don't know, maybe even airline tickets for such an area – it would probably be too wide to prepare another to participate in these crimes. Then, article 111 says Watch out for this, you say it's not a crime to go to Syria, to Iraq. [[…]] Of course it is if it's about fighting for terrorism. Those who recruit for terrorism by encouraging another person to commit crimes are these murders and so forth, as is the case — Article 108 of this Code — or to participate in the commission of such a terrorist act or to join a terrorist criminal association or a group for the commission of terrorist offences committed by this criminal society or group shall be punished by imprisonment from 1 to 10 years. The real recruitment is as covered as participation, as I mentioned earlier. In short, I don't see that these crimes would be covered. And now if we say, and today we accept, if I rule out that bizarre case, that someone threatens to shut down water in the village, if we say that this has not been criminalized so far, and will continue from now on, then I'm also wondering what it is about those cases that may have been in these areas so far. Are we gonna let them go? We'll say, "Yes, so far it hasn't been, but from now on we'll incriminate it." That's not true. This is a criminal offence already, since this criminal code applies. So I can't agree that this isn't incriminating and that this is allowed. So I'm afraid I can't support this novel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u66	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I would like to tell my respectable colleague Jean Mahnič if he did not understand that I had previously postponed the position of the Desus Group and that this attack was not appropriate personally for me, that this attack was unfair and disrespectful and that no one in this Chamber has the right to express such attacks to his fellow Members who have the right to express their views on the matters we are dealing with. Members of the SDS would point out that they always talk about respect for human rights. And it is also a violation of my human right to keep criticizing me if I say something. Don't laugh, Mr. Jean. I think it's really disrespectful to say your culture or non-culture because you don't have a culture, then you wouldn't laugh. It is not my fault that you have a problem with justice in the SDS and that because I represent the views of the Desus Group in the field of justice in this Chamber, that you are constantly attacking me. So much for that. Now I would like to personally touch on the proposal for a law amending the Penal Code that we are considering today. The proposed amendments to the Penal Code consider that the specific criminalisation of participation in armed conflicts abroad is necessary and should be accepted as an amendment to the Penal Code. In doing so, I would like to point out that the drafters should analyse the text of the general section of the Penal Code, namely KZ-1, and the amendments to this Act of 2011. Obviously, I don't think they did it or did it, but they missed it. Article 1 of the amendments to the Penal Code seeks that applicants criminalise participation. This act is already regulated in the applicable criminal code, in the general part of this criminal code. Therefore, I do not believe that an amendment to Article 108 of the Penal Code, KZ-1, is necessary. I also believe that it is not necessary to amend Article 111 KZ-1, since the area of terrorism in these two Articles is appropriately regulated in Articles 108 and 111 KZ-1. You can also read this in the report of the Ministry of Justice. I would also like to point out that Slovenia, with amendments and additions to the Penal Code in 2004, and also in 2008, introduced the necessary content from United Nations Security Council Resolution 2178 into the law. We also, and in 2008, introduced amendments to the Penal Code. This is about compliance with EU rules, a reaction to the 11 September 2001 terrorist attack in New York. In his position of the Group of Members, Mr Chus noted that the Coalition would obviously like to say one thing that the Coalition clearly believes that everything is okay and that we are therefore not accepting or rejecting the adoption of these amendments. [[…]] I'd like to say that's not true. I do not believe that this is true in the coalition, and in particular in the Desus Group, we are still aware that the situation in Syria and Iraq is very serious, that people, innocent people, including women and children, are suffering, and that this violence must be prevented. We regret all the events, all the inhuman and repudiation and actions and compassion for the suffering. However, this does not mean that we must support the amendment of the Penal Code. We have simply found that this is not necessary at the moment. As I said in the position of the Desus Group, it is really not appropriate to change the Penal Code so quickly. Finally, let me reiterate that, in May, the European Council is to adopt common European legislation in this area and that the EU Member States will then implement this legislation into their laws. And that will be done by Slovenia, so that everything will be as it must be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat, also Mr Cuz, has only read the position of the Group of Members. Here you are, the proponent, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u68	Thank you, Vice President. Mrs. Popot, I didn't attack you. But I went to look at how many times I mentioned you earlier in my discussion, directly into the magnetogram. I mentioned you once when I agreed with you when you said, "What about the press, the tourists and the others who are going down?" The second time I mentioned you, I said, "Mrs. Popotat, there have been no foreign terrorist fighters so far." Because they were not there because they were not defined in the resolution. So I really don't know why you're taking this as an attack on you. I only asked you, personally, because you just read the position because you said that this legislation, if we accepted it, would mean that we admitted that these acts had not been incriminated so far, I just told you that, based on what you said, they were not actually because there were no foreign terrorists. So you came at me unfairly because I didn't attack you. I only mentioned you once, and I even agreed with you once.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Dr. Jasna Murgelj has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u70	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! If I summed up one of my colleagues' words from the SDS party, yes, I could say, "There's nothing new in the West." The SDS is once again proposing amendments to CAP-1, which is not necessary. For all crimes related to international terrorism, there is already a basis for their persecution under the Penal Code, which we have. And today we have already discussed why this change is not necessary. This is also confirmed by the opinions of the Ministry of the Interior, the opinions of the Ministry of Justice, the opinion of the Attorney General, the opinion of the police. In the SMC Group, we asked all of these stakeholders whether everything was okay with the legislation and we found that the Penal Code, such as it is, is enough that for once there is no need to amend it. What I am very concerned about is that once again the proposal, a repeat proposal, because we are dealing with a similar thing again, in short, with an unjustified proposal to amend KZ-1, this opportunity is being used on the side of the SDS Group to intimidate people. You state, your fellow Members, the horrors that are truly terrible, and it is very bad when we watch it on TV, you talk about what will happen to us, you create, you take this opportunity to intimidate people, what will happen to us, because the Penal Code of the Republic of Slovenia is not supposed to be the basis for pursuing crimes of international terrorism. Yeah, and you're saying that a terrible argument is that we don't want to move the spikes and bolts in the articles of the Penal Code. I'm sorry, the Penal Code, I'm going to repeat, the Penal Code is matter, it's a very serious violation of human rights. We change this only if it is really necessary, but not every time someone remembers that they will now take advantage of the Member's position here to tell people what will happen to them. We really don't have to create an atmosphere of fear in Slovenia, but this is all going to happen to us, which is what's going on outside. Yes, there is a possibility, there is a potential danger of international terrorism, no one denies it, but the basis for persecuting the crimes of international terrorism, we already have in the Penal Code, and we also have a basis for persecuting other things that are regulated by other rules that are not crimes. No, we will not agree that now the intention of committing a crime will be merely, which means that something in someone's head will become numb, and that is why we are chasing him. Because we know the system of the Penal Code, because we know what it means to interfere with the Penal Code itself, how serious this is in human rights, we will not play with the Penal Code. The Government is aware of the need to monitor and monitor developments on the international scene in relation to international terrorism and has therefore carefully reviewed all legislation in this area and is also planning any changes to other regulations that are relevant to this area. Therefore, to say that this is not happening and that we are threatened by no serious activity because the government does not do so is very irresponsible and short-sighted. It is unacceptable that we frighten people and cause them to feel that one day someone from these Islamic countries will come or I don't know where and commit all these terrible crimes of international terrorism in our own. Such work seems very politically shortsighted to me, and I would really like to see that perhaps a little less people here from this scene of the National Assembly, because the basis for thinking that they would consider that this area is not properly regulated in our law is simply not. That is why there is no need to amend the Penal Code and therefore I will not support the proposed amendments to this Penal Code. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u72	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. In the past week, we have encountered a very similar issue, which we have also discussed very constructively with the proponents, and we have learned a lot of new facts, and I think there has been a lot of good things to say. I would now focus only on criminal law, which should be amended today. I must say that the Penal Code is an expression of the level of government that prescribes certain conduct. If we are interfering with the changes, we should be very, very careful, as such a small change needs to be considered whether it is necessary or not. As the predecessor mentioned, the Penal Code does not change from today to tomorrow, but it is a long process if this is really, really necessary. If this is to be changed because Slovenia is in the European Union and the Council of Europe, with this additional protocol on foreign terrorist fighters to be presented in Brussels for the month of May, I believe that the Minister will also inform us of this and prepare appropriate legislation, but I think that the sub-laws will make this even clearer. I think we need to focus only on Slovenia, what is going on with us, in Slovenia itself. We need to focus on people why some groups of people decide to intervene in such a way that they go abroad and join terrorist organisations. We must be aware that we are living in a social crisis and people simply have nothing left to lose. Therefore, it might be more reasonable to think about what to do to get these people out of this difficult social distress that they are in, because prevention is crucial to all these things. If we are satisfied with people, we will certainly not think about any crimes and should therefore give more importance here. Furthermore, it could only be defined up to this intended participation, which the applicant points out to be included in the Penal Code. I have to say that I don't agree with this, because it can't be a crime yet. I can do a lot of things today, and I'm never gonna do it in my life, but I'm just in so much trouble, I'm just thinking right now, but I'm never gonna do it. I propose that we all find a common dialogue together, think patiently and look for solutions for our people to save them from social distress. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Lilliana Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u74	Thank you, Chairman. When I listened to Mr Jana Mahnič, it is clear to me that he does not understand what the Penal Code is, that he does not know it, because if he understood it, he would know how important every point, every comma – not only in criminal law, in general, is in law. In fact, criminal law is as exact as mathematics. There's only one and only two, there can never be three. And of course, I don't blame him for not knowing. I resent him, however, when he lacks the professional arguments that he is actually trying to discredit the Secretary of State in essence to show his knowledge or ignorance. I don't think it's something to be ashamed of, but that if someone did something about it, it would be obvious. When you listen to Mr Couch's debate at the outset or I will say the position of the SDS Group, and later also of Mr Tonin, you will get the feeling that we are one of the most endangered countries in this world. Actually, it's not like that. The assessment of the threat to Slovenia is that we are the fourth safest country in the world and the second most safe in Europe. And not because our organs, as has been said before, are some kind of crowd, but because they work extremely well. Last week we listened and all the authorities were present, and Mr Jean listened, and the Foreign Ministry and Sova and the Military Intelligence Service and the Ministry of the Interior, which is responsible for terrorism, told us what measures they were implementing. This is why this feeling or actual security in Slovenia is the same as it is. So that it will not remain in the air that really Slovenia is so threatened, I will read certain things that have been presented, and what only the police have actually presented, the others have said very little, because they can only say what is available to the public, but they cannot say what they cannot say. The police are implementing a number of operational and strategic measures in the field of counter-terrorism. One such action is the Armour. A specific form of action in which all policies and indicators for the recognition of activities related to terrorism, radicalisation, the identification of potential foreign fighters are covered as strategic matters, both at the border and inside the country. The collection and analysis and evaluation of all information related to terrorism, the establishment of a specific system, the analysis of information, the use of useful information in police work, at the general level as well as on police administrations are called working groups, members of all police work areas, who are responsible for the consistent implementation of all measures. The R & D project, which the Commission of the European Union considers to be one of the priorities and most effective means of combating terrorism, is of particular importance. It is the establishment of a network of platforms aimed at ensuring the detection and prevention of radicalisation, awareness-raising and addressing the consequences of this radicalisation. Eight working groups from different labour and social areas participate in the RAN network: police, military, intelligence, health, education, social, non-governmental organisations, local and religious communities. And that seems to me to be one of the most important projects against this current situation. Further PNR project. An interdepartmental project group has been established, in addition to the police and representatives of the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, and as an external expert in information technology, the authorities of the Republic of Slovenia, representatives of the national air carrier Adria Airways. Further Project First Line. On the basis of the signed CTI, the First Line project for the Western Balkans is being established, which will focus on the transfer of good practices, the establishment of contact points and the transfer of information between the EU and some Western Balkan countries. Further working group. The police and their representatives participate in a working group led by Italy under the auspices of the European Commission. The aim of the working group is to exchange good practices in the field of combating terrorism, identify indicators and establish a system to detect the travel of foreign fighters, prepare them for departures to crisis hotspots and prevent departures and control of these persons, establish a system of cooperation with third countries outside the EU, quickly and effectively exchange information, establish contact points. Interdepartmental Working Group on Transnational Threats, etc. and, of course, a number of other administrative measures, such as the introduction of the Air Card Record System and the amendment of the Travel Documents Act. This is just a few measures that can be discussed in public, because there is probably still a lot of these measures. And that is why I believe we are safe in Slovenia. As for the amendment of legislation, this is being prepared at European level, and then Slovenia will be in Slovenia in May when it is essentially [[sign for the end of the debate]] presented, also cooperated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Jean Mahnič has the floor. Replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u76	Thank you, Vice President. I just have to respond to Mrs Kozlovich's words. I am very glad to have her in the National Assembly as an outstanding expert on the Penal Code. I probably don't know him that way, and I don't know if that's why I shouldn't talk about him. I am pleased, however, that Mrs Kozlovich is very aware of the importance of national security, which she has shown when, on a proposal from the United Left, she prevented the debate on police savings. That's what she showed me about safety and how she felt about the police. As far as the Owl and Mr. Staret are concerned, I was misunderstood again. I picked him up in words when he said he was listening if anyone said anything at the inn about Syria. I didn't say Mr. Stare did that. I said he was Deputy Director of the Owl, which is also a function that is worthy of respect, even if he did it as he should. But I was talking about that steam owl I know about, and I'm pretty sure it exists. Not about the Owls, about the work that does everything right, but about those who use this institution. There's a lot more of them. Take a look at what was said about Owl, and then you speak the way you used to. First, there's some things you need to read.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marinka Levicar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Nice greetings, presidents, colleagues and colleagues! My debate will be brief as usual. I would like to point out in particular that in many ways I agree with the reasons or justifications given by the SDS for the adoption of this law, which is why I have also supported this law in my first reading. Now that we have a second reading, I am convinced that the Council of Europe is preparing a special protocol on foreign terrorist fighters to the European Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism. The content of this Protocol is expected to be presented in May 2015. Then we will be able to see clearly whether we also need changes in the Penal Code and in which direction these changes should go. We will then be able to amend our Penal Code to comply with these guidelines and arrangements adopted by other European countries, the Member States of the European Union. I therefore agree with our Group's proposal that we do not support the current proposal for amendments to the Penal Code proposed by the SDS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u80	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. I hope that I will not experience any replicas, like my slightly younger colleague, when they say anything, the ball comes back to them – you two young gentlemen do not know exactly what they are saying or how. It's not the same marriage as it was in December. I also said for the first time in December on the substantive side, ah, because, terrorism, it's none of our business or my business, and probably a lot of Slovenians think it's happening down there in Africa, in Asia, and we don't. And I remembered how the whole world reacted a decade ago when what happened happened happened in America. For three months, the whole world was terrified, appalled, and many did things, either in the legislative field or in some other way. The institutions have collapsed, individuals have folded, and something has moved. But that initial horror and anxiety was falling. And that's what happened in December. As I said before, I said so myself, ah, because this does not play any important role for us Europeans, especially for us Slovenians, as a small country. And we know what happened in France. We know what was going to happen in Belgium, but we probably don't even know about a lot of things. And I said, here, Slovenians are members of the European Union, Nate, we do not have any specialities that would be particularly disturbing for terrorists or Islamic extremists, but could happen. And many times, we say, it's better to stop than to treat. Now we have a draft law, which is also based on the previous debate before us. And it's not necessary again, even though we all agree. It damages the Penal Code, the existing one, the bill? It doesn't hurt. If we can make it better for a little bit, we've already done our bit. And, yes, when lawyers talk, it's a similar thing. I know quite a few lawyers, I live with one of them, and they always say, the devil is in the details, in the comma, in the dot, sometimes, unfortunately, almost in the accent of how someone says something. And then the same lawyers tell you, it's a similar thing, but it's all the same. As a legislator, I cannot agree with that. I hope all 90 of us know, every time we make a decision with a key for, against, against the quorum, what we decide. And yes, what we accept, the commas also play important roles in how a sentence is written in a law. And if anyone is disturbed by a comma or a dot, Your Honor, it's the first to consider it. We have paragraph 108 open, we have article 111 of the Penal Code, if anyone is really disturbed by a trifle, I believe that if the government has any wise proposal to improve these articles, we will listen to them; if the coalition or other opposition parties have any reasonable argument that this text will be supplemented by a comma or a substantive comment, we have a possibility in the second and third readings. Let me get back to you. Let's get out of here. We always have until nothing happens to us, we don't even think about it. But the problem is when something happens to us, it's too late. Ask Americans today what they think after that attack, how they thought about security and freedom before; how they think about security and freedom now. But in a rather cruel way, they learned and experienced after what had happened, and of course, they had previously thought completely differently. And when this law gives the police the authority and the legal basis to prevent recruitment and persecution of those who recruit individuals to fight in the Islamic State immediately, what is wrong with it. We give the state or the police more powers. I myself have listened to the representatives of the police or all these authorities, and I must say that their positions are somewhat ambiguous. Sometimes they say marriage is okay, the problem is in practice. Then someone else in these institutions comes by and says, but maybe criminal legislation has to be considered. And today I'm listening. We'll wait for Europe. When Europe moves forward when Europe does something, we Slovenians will also do it. On the other hand, we often boast about how we did the first thing. But we also have other extremes when Europe prescribes something, and we say: Ah, Europe prescribes us, and this does not have to be respected or brought into the legal order. But the fact is, even this coalition, which was created by how ethical and moral it is, is driven a little by these curves, especially on what suits them. Sometimes we can outrun Europe, but sometimes we don't even listen to it. And the same is true of human rights. Today we are talking about how potential terrorists would be violated by human rights. Human rights and terrorists are extremes. Today, I feel like terrorists have all human rights. And if someone says he's going to do something in one country, the Slovenian, that he's going to do something and then come back, the poor terrorist, let's give him human rights. At the same time, the same government has repeatedly violated human rights in this mandate. Am I listing you? Most of these are representatives of the Slovenian Democratic Party and representatives of the media as well; when they do something, the court sends them to prison. But today, when we talk about terrorists, we are also talking about their human rights with the same zeal. I really don't understand. Like I said, I'm not a lawyer, but I'm a political scientist. I must say that all my lecturers, some of them sitting here, have never given me this moment, so that terrorists can also form a verbal link of human rights. I have listened very carefully to the opinions of the members of the groups. Desus said nothing new. At the same time, we have said that we are giving the police a greater opportunity to act; especially that it is new – we have all written on social networks I am Charlie. But there's nothing new about Desus from December to today. No new fear, nothing new – interesting. The SD supports the European Union's efforts, but they will wait, as always, pragmatically. The United Left says we've got about the right set, but they'll be against the law. No – we have great, fine, fine; "we have roughly the right thing to do" but against the law. And then they even mention something about hate for strangers. We are talking about a law that prohibits or prevents Slovenian citizens. Where is the hatred of strangers? Well, about the opinion of New Slovenia – they are close to us and we thank them. And Mira Cerar said, "We care about events, we have positive concerns, but the law is unnecessary." When I was preparing for this debate, I said I wouldn't say, "But when it happens to us, what happens then?" God forbid anything happens to us in Slovenia. That someone comes back here and starts thinking about what kind of stuff, I'm gonna say, stupidity, that I'm not gonna say the word terrorism. But of course – we prevent, we know how it is with us. The United Nations resolution is very clear. She was admitted 24 years ago. 9. 2014, and our Penal Code is from 1998. 16 years these provisions of Articles 108 and 111, and we say everything is okay; or other than, as I said, some say, "approximately properly arranged". In 16 years, a huge change has taken place, particularly in the practical aspect of terrorism. We are all more concerned, but today we feel as if they have already said in 1998 – this area is so well regulated in our Penal Code that we really do not need any terrorist attacks, no Islamic extreme country, nothing else. We already knew that in 1998 — that’s it. If that is true, I commend those who wrote these articles of the Penal Code in 1998. Let me go back to Slovenia. Not only in the United Nations resolution – we know exactly what it says there. On the other hand, we have a Minister of the Interior who does not even know that he is a member of the National Security Council. And now I understand why the word terrorism is so little in this government, sometimes a distant term, but if their minister who is responsible does not know where he belongs or what he should do. And apparently, as I said before, the police sometimes have problems with what they can and can do, and what they can't do. Not to be too long, my dear fellow, it's the first time I've seen it. If anything bothers you about Articles 108 and 111 and because we are talking about articles that were adopted 16 years ago, I believe that through further consideration we can find the appropriate text of these articles, which will speak so correctly about terrorism; above all, it will be a picture of the current situation and not a situation from 16 years ago, when the theory and practice were completely different. Unfortunately, the practice was completely different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr Darko Stare, Secretary of State, asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Ambassador, I just want to fix it. The Penal Code has been in force since 2008, it is new, not 16 years old. But I'd like to point out something simple because it's not really what you said. The Minister of the Interior actively participated and attended SNAV meetings. This claim that it does not know that it is a member is absolutely paradoxical and completely pointless. As Secretary of State, I am also a member of the SNAV Secretariat. It is clear and clear in this communication that all ministers who are members by decree are actively involved. This, of course, also means that they are aware of their roles, responsibilities, and that they are doing so with care and conscience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Miha has the floor [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Replica, Mr. Fox, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u84	Dear Secretary of State! As to whether or not the Minister knows which authorities she is or is not in; I relied on the opinion of the journalist when she invited the Minister to one of the commercial televisions, and the Minister said she was no longer a member of the Council. Fortunately, I will not say what the Minister is doing or what she is saying. Fortunately, it is none of my business. But I expect from the ministers that their words are the same as their actions. I came from what I got from the media. But then I didn't get anywhere from the minister that she didn't say it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u85	Tomaž Lisec, thank you very much. Mr. Miha Kordish has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u86	Thank you very much. We have heard a summary of the United Left's position in this area, so that the area is somewhat regulated. I'm not even gonna stop at this point. But I would like to point out another broader perspective on how extremism can even be a problem. The problem of radicalization of various extremists and so on has not been from yesterday, nor has it arisen on its own, mystically, that at a certain point some group of people were briefly without a reason "taken away" and grabbed arms and began to break and smash everything on the list. No, no, no. There are some very strong, very good and very weighty reasons for this to happen. I don't excuse them at all. I'm just painting the system context. The misery that the policy of imperialism of capitalist metropolis causes around the world also has this effect, among other things, to radicalise living people there. Not only does it plunge them into poverty, hopelessness and mutual accounting; what can happen at some historic moment, in some historical context, is that these people radicalize and begin by pursuing some extremely problematic, extremely reactive and anti-emancipatory ideologies. We can face this problem in a way that simply reinforces control, strengthens pressure to strengthen repression; and in this way we suspend certain democratic freedoms. But we will never solve this problem, and we cannot solve it without eliminating the very reasons why the problem of religious extremism has ever occurred. And this problem is imperialism and imperialist plundering of the resources circle and circle around the world. Until we are done with imperialist policies – perhaps not even Slovenia, because we know that it would be very difficult for Slovenia to call an imperialist super power, however. The existing policy of the last 20 years, for example, has been a policy of supporting capital centres, centres of power of the global metropolis in their imperialist projects throughout the third world. Maybe nothing is possible, but we certainly can't do anything alone in this area, we can't. Slovenia, as I have already said, a small country, cannot solve this area alone, cannot solve it with one swing but can begin with its resolution. In the field of economics, in the field of diplomacy, in the field of media reporting. In our hands, however, there are levers of pressure; there are levers of statements that can start with the problem of imperialist politics, with the problem of the reasons that have led to the rise at all, such as the Islamic States, which are often mentioned today. This would be the right way to solve the security problem ahead. Moreover, this is the only way that this problem can be definitively and permanently resolved. Everything else is really notes, it's just an ad hoc face-to-face. But these consequences will be increased every day by deepening imperialist politics. And more and more and more. And where will we go if we face these consequences in a way that deepens repression, by continuing to suspend democratic freedoms, by extending control to no longer know what terrible depths and by following people at every turn. Sooner or later, we will find ourselves in a society that the proponent of these amendments to the Penal Code would call it a totalitarian society. This is my contribution to this debate. It seems to me that this systemic context is very important, it is discussed little or no, that it is indeed precisely this point at which we should start both by talking and by taking action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The word has Mr. Andrej Chuš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u88	Thank you very much. That's a nice hello from those benches. In this debate today, I've been attacked quite a few times, if you'll excuse me. But the task of the opposition and our Members is to monitor the government's work and to try our best to contribute to the improvement of legislation. I think that we are working hard to recognize these efforts by the coalition; I do not think that there have been so many proposals that have ever been supported by the government since the opposition. Above all, this is because the government does nothing. And today we have also received one of the members of the Mir Cerar Party or the modern Cerar Party – I hope that modern will not mean that nothing is done. But it has been said that the drafting of this legislation, changes to this legislation are under way. But look, on December 19th last year we had our first vote on this, the law was rejected, today we are on March 6, 2015, so three months after that again you are saying that the preparations are that the changes are in progress, that something is happening; but that we must not rush. Now I don't know, don't rush for three months – it's kind of a time when every person would expect something to happen, but it didn't happen, so we've made this marriage. And not me, but people have or have slow knowledge, analysis, study enough. I think it's time for work to roll up your sleeves and finally move something forward. Today, I have also heard several times from the coalition Members that Slovenia is a safe country, that we are not at risk. But as I look at today's developments around the government and the resignations, I feel that Slovenia is very threatened, especially because of the government it has. We should be doing a lot more work and not just talking. On the other hand, the ethics had to fall. We have a minister who made a coup, and he's still a minister today. All heads in the sand, because in a week's time, it'll be in the media, and then somehow we'll be moving on and working. And that's all the tragedy of morality and ethics. You failed your exam. At the same time, I wonder if it is human right to have an effective government. It's probably because electoral rights are also human rights, but for 25 years we've been hearing that everything is fine in this country. I don't know. Is everything okay? Everyone will say one problem if we ask him right now, some more. I personally have enough third- league offices and politicians who advocate third- league officialism. There's something we need to do. And I would also like to touch here when we have been labeled some radicals, what serious moves and steps we anticipate in amending the legislation, and I will just read you what is going on in Austria. "In Austria, teenagers who wanted to marry two jihadists from the Islamic State were detained in Syria. In Austria, a 14-year-old fan of the Islamic State was arrested. In Austria they arrested 13 alleged Islamic extremists." And I could count it. Also a hundred years ago, Austria was given a new law on Islam. I don't know if you knew that. But to upgrade the 100 - year - old law in the neighboring country, they decided to make changes that would reflect the reality of modern Austria. At the same time, the new law contains provisions which the Muslim community probably does not like, but thus states that national legislation is above Sharia law. Such a provision does not contain laws governing other religions. It also provides that Islamic associations and mosques shall not be allowed to be financed from abroad and that they shall only be able to carry out their work from abroad one year after the law has been enacted. The Austrian Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, Sebastian Kurz, told the German DPA press agency that they wanted to develop Islam in an Austrian way by law. In Austria, however, an educated Muslim cleric will find it easier to connect with local Muslim youth and face radicalisation. "We need examples, especially for young people," the Austrian Foreign Minister stressed. So, as we have seen, many other countries, many of whom like to follow our example, not only in the opposition, but also in the coalition, have taken a much sharper, radical and systematic approach to legislative changes. And I can say that our proposal is just a little something that should be acceptable to everyone. However, it is also necessary to act on the basis of our position as Slovenia, because we are already at risk because of our position. We are, we can say, somehow in the heart of Europe, through us a lot of transit routes and it is very likely that these transit routes, through which fighters travel to the battlefields, also run through Slovenia. And that's why we have to have an appropriate answer. However, I was also concerned about the statements that Owl evidently listened to individuals who spoke at the inn because I think it was a lot of work to do at other locations. They can also go for coffee because of me, but there is something else to be done. At the same time, we must ask ourselves who in the National Assembly imagined one year ago that there would be a war in Ukraine, that there would be massacres and terrorist attacks on Europe and Australia. Australia, in my opinion, is one of the safest continents, if not the safest, a state of prosperity, there is no problem of morality and ethics, and there is a massacre. No one is immune to the phenomenon of terrorism, unfortunately, even because of globalisation, which had positive and negative sides. Prevention and not curative treatment should be given. When it's the first terrorist event or, say, the death victim in our house, it'll be too late for that. And it will be the legislator and the competent authorities who should prevent this. I am pleased, however, that everyone who opposes our proposal speaks about human rights. I also express my conviction and hope that Members of the Mir Cerar Party will condemn over 600 human rights violations by Slovenian courts. Then we can say that we have the same vats for everyone, not that we adapt to the tumnus of human rights when it suits us; but when we do not, we put our heads in the sand and we are silent. Let me finish. The minister resigned today because she received €636,000 in copyright fees. What will Mira Cerar do now, who has received over €350,000? I'd expect at least a half-department. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The government representative, Mr Darko Stare, is next, if he wishes.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u90	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Then the motioner, Mr Jan Mahnič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, Vice President. One last time today. If I somehow disagree with the debate that we have witnessed today, I am delighted that everyone as much as we are aware of at least this issue of terrorism. I am particularly pleased with the meeting we had last week, the joint meeting of the internal affairs and justice committees, which was truly constructive by the opposition and the coalition and where we first received answers or ensured that the government is preparing anti-terrorism legislation. If she's ready and she's as ready as she needs to be, of course we'll support her. However, we have still proposed this, of course we have also proposed before this meeting this amendment to the Penal Code, because we believe that something needs to be changed in the field of the Penal Code as well. Mr Zorčič previously well analyzed these articles, with a lot of concern he could agree, but I do have an answer here when he said that it was already criminalised when he wrote in 111 that someone who encourages another person to commit crimes is being punished. We propose an additional paragraph, which states who encourages the planning of crimes. In our view, these are two separate cases, because the same person can first encourage the planning of someone; then, when these matters are through, he can encourage someone to commit crimes that were, of course, already planned. You know, talking about human rights is delicate, even if you talk to a fig in your pocket or if you adjust the word of human rights to your needs. To talk about human rights that might be violated if we implemented this legislation, even though I said that it was not about going in this direction, that we would control everything on average and everything. On the other hand, you do not mind the violation of the human rights of the current Justice Minister, who made it up to the former Prime Minister. When we talk about human rights, I can relate to the fact that you have been disturbed by the deletion of the word "worrious" in violation of constitutional rights. What is involved in violating human rights, or someone who intends to commit a terrorist act, is a serious threat to constitutional foundations. I believe you have some serious problems here if you take this word "worrisome" out because – what does it mean to seriously endanger constitutional foundations? Whether it is to take a tank full of gasoline to the National Assembly or to seriously jeopardize the constitutional basis — to vote in favour of the removal of one of the Members of Parliament unlawfully, unconstitutionally, and then you have it abolished. Here I believe that this is also why you have serious problems with what is a serious threat to the constitutional foundation of one country, another country, home country or international organisation. I believe that this legislation you're preparing will soon come to us. I believe that Slovenia is implementing all preventive measures in the field of terrorism, because the other way I believe and hope is not going to stay with me anyway. However, in general, the situation in which we, when we take security as something self-evident, when we are confident that nothing will happen to us because we are quoting such and different that we are a safe country. These assessments would have changed considerably if Zagrajski were not then prevented from making a terrorist attack that he intended to make on one of the government’s buildings. Otherwise, we would probably also have spoken if we had not prevented one of the Albanian citizens from talking about the tanker that Mr Tonin had already talked about before. The direction in which Slovenia will go will have to be determined. Whether we will be aware of this matter, whether we will also do something about raising the defence budget and, of course, the police budget; or whether we will probably make the cheapest option that we can do in terms of security. Not least in the Butalas, it's not a random comparison. What did they do there? At the borders of the country, let's write entry ban on the enemy board.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The time for discussion has not yet expired and the Rules of Procedure allow us another round. Anybody want to talk? Please sign up. Mrs. Anya Bah Žibert, please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u94	Thank you so much for saying that. True, first of all, I even gave up this debate, thinking that it would take place in a spirit that reflects the time in which we live. However, that was not the case, so it is also appropriate for me to say a few words myself. See, to banalize such a burning issue as the terrorist war that it is; this topic is so banalized by the fact that it is happening somewhere far away and that it is not so bad and that our country is not threatened – it is unacceptable. I hope that the result – the result is that we will remain ineffective because you will not support it; your laws that you are preparing are still not sure if they will ever see the light of the world, given the dynamics of your work. I'm afraid you won't regret it once if anything happens in our country. But then – I hope the public listens to us – that it will not be said, the National Assembly has not taken appropriate action. No, the coalition has not taken the appropriate measures, and I stress this because this responsibility will certainly not fall on me and I do not want to have it on my soul. So somehow I invite you to know that when your colleagues were discussing, the distinguished SMC representative, I was silent and I wasn't talking. [[…]] If you have something to talk about, I'd really like to finish the discussion, even though I may be disturbing for someone. When you put pressure on the buttons to allow this law to go forward in the procedure and to be able to change it further; and it is absolutely right to discuss also things where you think they are not the most solved, but still represent a step forward. That something was wrong, we were warned by the law enforcement authorities because the Slovenian Democratic Party did not recall it. When you press your buttons, keep in mind that Slovenia is also on the map of extremists. We are also written there, and if they believe that there is no doubt about the course of events, then it is only a matter of time. In view of the horrors that are happening, it will not be less if we do not do everything to prevent it; it will only increase. Keep that in mind, too. This moment may not be about Slovenia, but with this pressure on the button, we will also help those countries that are already facing these horrors. And I hope that the other country will push these buttons sooner rather than later, so that this will not happen to us. When we talk about human rights and tolerance, we all know that it comes only at certain times. Yesterday, for example, it was a more important ethical code than a violation of human rights, and it was also for our citizens – and especially for our citizens. But when we talk about human rights, extremists and terrorism, you have to literally think about what rights you're talking about. There are no rights to take lives, there is no human right to do so. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u95	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, on Monday, 9. 3. 2015, in the context of the votes This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 20. At the outset, this is a proposal for a law supplementing the law on cooperation between the national assembly and the government in matters of the European Union. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of twenty-one Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of twenty-one Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed bill of Mrs Anji Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u96	Madam President, thank you so much for your words. Colleagues and colleagues! Article 17 of the Treaty on European Union provides that a member of the European Commission must be elected from among the citizens of each Member State on the basis of his or her competence and commitment to Europe, of the persons whose independence is beyond doubt. The same criteria as those to be met by a member of the European Commission should also be met by the candidate or candidate for a member of the European Commission after analogy. The procedure for appointing Slovenian candidates or candidates or candidates for membership of the European Commission in the Slovenian legal order is not regulated. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 153 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, each individual act and act of a State authority must be based on a law or legal provision. In accordance with Article 22 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, everyone must be given equal protection of rights in proceedings before the State authorities, and that also means establishing at least the minimum criteria for the procedure by which the candidate who fulfils the conditions will also be selected. The question we've been asking since 31st Seven. 2014 forward, however, is whether we are satisfied with the existing regulation or rather with the lack of regulation. And the answer that I hope to claim to be somehow united in this Chamber is, of course, not. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have drawn up a proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government in matters of the European Union, which sets out the minimum criteria and defines the procedure for candidateing the European Commissioner. The fundamental objective of our proposal is to regulate the procedure for appointing Slovenian candidates with a view to precisely defining the individual stages of the proposal and thus ensuring greater transparency of the procedure. In order to reduce the democratic deficit, which is often evident in the procedures for appointing EU officials from the Member States, we would also like to extend the application of this procedure to other procedures from the Assembly of Representatives of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Community, unless otherwise provided by law. The principles followed by the proposal are transparency, the provision of a legal procedure in the selection of candidates, the active participation of the legislative branch of the authorities and the public interest. In fact, the bill presented is unrequited. It contains all 4 articles and introduces the necessary clarity, order and transparency into the appointment process. Since in the Slovenian Democratic Party we also want to debate as widely as possible with a view to finding optimum solutions, we are putting the law into a regular procedure in three readings. The time for substantive debate and the search for the best solutions will be enough. Today, however, it is only our task to bring the law into the process, with the general agreement, and to allow us to close together the awkward story that opened during the last two governments. In the discussion below, I will also present some concrete solutions to the changes in the law and also why it would be right for the proposal to support both the coalition and the opposition. To conclude, Your Honor. It's a first debate. This is a matter that needs to be settled. This is the direction of the solution that we all agree with, and it is a moment and time that is appropriate to agree on greater transparency in the appointment of Slovenian representatives in the EU institutions. Slovenians and Slovenians do not want to be bothered by the fate of the European public in the backrooms of the appointed candidates. To blink whether such candidates will understand the questions at all and answer with appropriate substantive answers. No, no, no. Together, we want to listen with confidence to the quality of the answers that the Slovenian candidate or candidate will give to the European public floor, and to whose content we will also stand for all Slovenians and Slovenians. We will, of course, vote in the SDS for a second option. Citizens and citizens expect you to join us in this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u97	Thank you. For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mrs Dragoljubi Benčina, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u98	Madam President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Members and Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia welcomes any intention to regulate the appointment of a Slovenian candidate as a member of the Commission. It also made clear in its coalition agreement. Our aim is to agree on a transparent procedure, taking into account the criteria laid down in Article 17 of the Treaty on European Union, namely that the candidate is a national of the applicant country and is chosen on the basis of his general competence and commitment to Europe among persons whose independence is unequivocal. The new European Commission, as you know, took place on 1 November last year. Its term of office lasts for 5 years and the government has therefore intended to take time to discuss the relevant amendment of the law, which is very important and which also governs the appointment of a Slovenian candidate as a member of the commission. In Slovenia, legal practice has so far been applied in relation to the procedure for appointing a member of the commission, according to which the appointment of a candidate as a member of the commission has been subject to the political opinion of the President of the Government, taking into account the provisions already mentioned. The definition of this procedure was based on the nature of the function of the Commission and the relationship between it and its members and the governments of the Member States, as defined by the Treaty on European Union. Most other Member States are aware of such practices, but some have different practices. However, since the government wants to avoid complications in appointing a Slovenian candidate in the future, it considers that this is a reasonable issue to settle. The government has examined the proposal for a bill by a group of Members and considers the proposed solutions to be a step in the right direction. While the appointment of members of the Commission in most Member States is still under the authority of the Government or even the President of the Government himself, we agree that the competent committee of the National Assembly should be given the opportunity to hold a hearing of the candidate for Commissioner, but in this case it does not rule on the report and the reasoned opinion of that committee; this is similar to that of future ambassadors. At the same time, we agree that the final decision will explain its choice. This is also the opinion of the proposed members of the Group. While the Government has some concerns about certain specific proposals, as proposed by the Group of Members, as reflected in the text of the articles and the explanation of the bill. The proposed procedure does not constitute enforcement of other EU rules, as indicated in the new proposal of Article 1. The proposed text governs the internal procedures of the Government, which is not the subject of this law, as this procedure lays down the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Rules of Procedure of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The bill should focus only on the government's obligations in the said procedure in relation to the National Assembly. The proposed procedure should also be used mutatis mutandis to propose or appoint representatives of the Republic of Slovenia by the Government, I quote, "to bodies and organisations established on the basis of the rules of the European Community, unless otherwise specified by another law"; which is written quite vaguely and unfairly, probably inaccurately. A detailed explanation of the opinion can also be given below. Dear Members and Members! The law you are supplementing today is politically, as I said at the outset, extremely important. The government therefore supports a new proposal for a law that takes into account the concerns mentioned above; at the same time, the law is legally very demanding and, therefore, according to our assessment, its amendments need to be examined thoroughly, in particular from a legal point of view. Your Honor, thank you very much for your attention. But I can explain our concerns in more detail later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u99	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Desus Group will be presented by Mrs Marinka Levičar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u100	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings from Madam Secretary of State and you, colleagues and colleagues! The Desus Group agrees with the proposal for a law extending cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government. This was convinced by the event of last year's appointment of a candidate for a member of the European Commission. That is why we have already advocated the addition of the Law on Cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government when drawing up the coalition agreement. That is why we are also committed to the implementation of the decision adopted by the Committee on European Union Affairs at its 2nd session. 9. 2014, which reads: The Committee proposes to prepare a proposal for amendments and to supplement the Law on Cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government in matters of the European Union, which will include the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia as a directly elected representative body of all citizens and citizens in the process of appointing a member of the European Commission from the Republic of Slovenia. In the Desus Group, we are united in our belief that the National Assembly should be included in the selection process for Commissioners, as we have also made clear at the Committee's meeting. The law that we are considering regulates the appointment process, accurately defines the individual stages of the proposal, ensures transparency and greater democraticism. This procedure should also apply to the proposal or appointment of representatives of the Republic of Slovenia to bodies or organisations established under the rules of the European Union, unless otherwise provided for in the other law. Following a proposal for a law that we are considering, the government will elect one or more candidates and forward the proposal to the Committee of the National Assembly responsible for the affairs of the European Union. The Committee will hear the candidates, adopt a report which must be reasoned on for each of the candidates and forward it to the Government. However, the government is not bound to accept this candidate or this report. The final proposal must be explicitly within the power of the Government. This will ensure respect for Article 16 of the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, namely that the Government takes decisions and decides by a majority of the votes of all members. However, the decision to choose must be explained by the Government. Since the Desus Group advocates transparency and democraticism in the selection of candidates and the participation of the legislative branch of government, we agree with the proposal for a multi-phase procedure. We firmly believe that such important decision-making must by no means be solely within the Government's domain. Therefore, to the Members of Desus, the proposal for a law following the decision of the Committee on European Union Affairs seems appropriate for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u101	Thank you. Mr Matjaž Germany will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u102	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues, dear colleagues! We welcome the debate on amendments to the Law on Cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government on European Union matters. It was in the light of the last year that we witnessed the situation when the Commissioner was appointed that indicated the need for more completion of the procedures. The role of the National Assembly in the selection and validation of candidates and candidates for the post of Commissioner has proved to be a missing element to be upgraded in the new regime. At the same time, we cannot go beyond the question that consists in itself, or see the intention of the applicant in the light of the substantive considerations that require the establishment of a greater role of the National Assembly in these proceedings; or it is only a political response to the past rather unfortunate attempts at the last appointment of the candidate or candidate of the Republic of Slovenia for the post of Commissioner. The fact that the initiators of these changes, on the other hand, are proposals for constitutional changes, are seeking to overturn the role of the National Assembly in the procedures for appointing a government raises such doubts. These changes, among other things, want to entangle candidates for ministers when they create a new government when they are somehow attached to the role of an instrument that stands in the way of the rapid formation of a government. In this time-consuming aspect, there is a great trap when the substantive debate is put at the level of wasted time, when the Council gives up its role to the content and guidelines of the individual department in the formation of the new government, as well as to the one who assesses the suitability of the candidate for ministerial office; it is denied its primary role in the formation of the government. This, in our view, is a dangerous manoeuvre that can trigger a fundamental reformation of an already fragile balance between the Government and the National Assembly. This discrepancy in the intention of the proposer, which, in the course of two different procedures of his explanation and arguments, puts on a totally different sex, we do not see as a good way forward for further discussion on such issues. However, we do not want and do not want to find in this place today all the black foxes that we will have to eliminate in the light of the broad consensus in strengthening the National Assembly. Therefore, our warnings to change should not sound like opposition for political reasons, but rather as a well-intentioned search for a common consensus that will give change not only a legal but a broader legitimacy. When it comes to proposed changes, the Social Democrats believe that the path of choice where the government initiates the appointment process is by selecting one candidate or candidate and or proposing it to the committee responsible for European Affairs. In the event that it is not possible, the Government may exceptionally propose more candidates or candidates, taking into account the balanced representation of both sexes in a consistent manner. In doing so, we draw attention to the proposal that the Government should propose candidates or candidates for members of the European Commission at a regular meeting likely to be the product of the past procedure. However, consistent practices, including those of the European Union, show that a short period of time within which the President of the Commission in certifying candidates could limit us. This warning is not to be taken as a search for awkwardness, but rather to consider that procedures sometimes require a quick reaction. If we have a suitable safety valve, including in the larger role of the National Assembly, we can also avoid bad practices at the expense of flexibility. If we decide to accept this change, we must be well aware of it and take into account it when appointing a future commission; also after good communication with the European Commission, which should be informed of the timing of the proceedings. There is also a point of reference to what direction to use in proposing or appointing representatives of Slovenia to bodies or organisations established under the rules of the European Community. It is not some kind of style caprice, but a clear positioning and dictatorship that sets out consistent procedures in line with the rules of the European Union. In principle, we support the proposal of the law by the Social Democrats. I want the law not only to be a political reflection on the basis of past experience, but rather a substantive act to be drawn up on the basis of an argumented debate. This should go not in the direction of patching up holes, but in the way that the role of the National Assembly and its legitimacy will strengthen not only in the light of these changes but also in other procedures and content. We therefore expect to supplement the proposal and transform it into a good way forward in this kind of process on the basis of a substantive debate — not a measurement of political power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u103	Thank you. The position of the Group The United Left will be presented by Luka Mesec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u104	Honourable Vice President, Your Honor, thank you for your word. In the process of appointing the European Commission, the democratic deficit of the European Union is very clearly revealed. The lack of democraticism shows up at at least two levels. On the one hand, at the level of the Member State where the candidates are proposed; on the other hand, at the level of the European Union where the composition of the Commission takes place. I think that the European level of the problem needs to be commented on at least briefly in order to assess the legislative proposal. Although now the European Parliament has a formal role to play in the appointment, which ultimately approves or rejects the candidates, it is clear that this is a political kitchen. In most cases, Parliament only confirms behind-the-scenes arrangements. The fact is that the role of the European Parliament does not eliminate this deficit, as there are no intermediate articles in this mechanism. It is the case that 507 million people from 28 countries, among whom there are huge development and cultural differences – say, the difference between Luxembourg and Belgium – elect 751 Members according to national quotas. Finally, the European Parliament is a completely alienated body, which is practically unattainable for the average citizen of Europe. The result is extremely low electoral participation, which has even declined in recent years. Therefore, in principle, in terms of democracy, it is practically irrelevant whether or not the European Parliament approves these candidates. The fact is also that the role of the European Commission is becoming increasingly problematic. The European Union currently has a three-partite division of power between the European Parliament, the Council of the European Union and the European Commission. Parliament is approximately in line with the American Congress and the Council is in favour of the American Senate. I refer to the comparison with the United States because the European Commission has recently taken on increasing functions and its position in practice is becoming similar to that of the US President with the administration. The Commission is therefore no longer only the body that proposes and implements the regulations and directives adopted by the Council and Parliament, but is in fact becoming its own legislator. Two very problematic cases need to be mentioned, which point to this controversial fact. The first is pan-European and the second is Slovenian. If I go to the European case first. The European Commission has conducted discussions on the Transatlantic Investment Agreements in complete secrecy. Only under extreme pressure from the public seen in recent years has it revealed the basis for negotiations with the US under the TTIP agreement and the TTIP agreement, which covers services and is therefore even more dangerous to the public sector and to the social rights of citizens of Europe and Slovenia. Because of such processes, it is important who is a Slovenian member of the Commission and what we call it, which is the subject of this bill. The fact is that Jožet P. Damian's research shows that countries such as Slovenia do not have any advantages; they do bring weaknesses. Among other things, job losses in two key sectors – agriculture and agriculture. Agriculture is the social and environmental most sensitive sector, and farming is the parade horse of Slovenia. The agreement with Canada is already extremely unfavourable for generic drug manufacturers. And if we look at this a little bit wider than Slovenia, it's also a global development and humanitarian problem. By maintaining and extending the monopoly of Western drug corporations, there is an increase in the number of people who could otherwise be treated but cannot be treated because of too expensive medicines. This is just an illustration of how great powers the European Commission takes. There is no comfort in this that the agreement will one day be ratified by the National Assembly. I would like to see those heroes among you who would hope to reject such an agreement, which will be endorsed by the European Commission, the US and the most powerful countries in Europe. That is why we need to have an impact on the Commission itself, and unfortunately, at this point, we do not have much more than an impact on who is the Commissioner from Slovenia. And if we go to the Slovenian case. It is very important that the appointment is democratic and that it is also binding for a member of the Commission. In recent weeks, much has been said about the deletion of small NKBM shareholders and bondholders in December 2013. As we know, both the Government and the Bank of Slovenia referred to a document called a communication or guidelines. The Slovenian Constitutional Court is now reviewing the status of this document with the EU, which is a complete absurdity. In Slovenia, exactly what is the Constitution, what is the law, what is the law. Here we have the Constitutional Court, which cannot determine what a regulation is, what a directive is and what a message is. The fact that something like this happens in a system that claims to be a rule of law is shameful. At the same time, however, it is a reality that reflects the actual position of the European Commission and its democratic deficit. Slovenia is a living proof that the European Commission has the power to force the country to incorporate into its legislation a controversial solution that neither the Council of the European Union nor the European Parliament has adopted. With this, the European Commission sets its own laws. And what's worse, instead of other authorities preventing it or at least our government protesting it, is able to implement such regulations in practice. Therefore, it is no matter who is a member of the commission from Slovenia; and we must ensure an appropriate method of appointment, which will oblige this candidate to act for the benefit of Slovenian citizens and for the benefit of the citizens of the European Union in general; not to become another member of the Leviathan, which is called the European Commission. I am now moving to the national level of appointing candidates for Commission members and to an obvious democratic deficit. If I begin to assess the proposal, the proposer is the next mechanism. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia would choose one or more candidates, followed by a hearing with the Committee on European Union Affairs, which would give a reasoned opinion on candidates, which would be non-binding for the government. A candidate or candidate would then be proposed by the Government. The condition is that this is decided in a regular session, which is progress; but still discretion here is left to the Government, the National Assembly gives only an opinion. If I understand correctly, the Government is in favour of this solution, but it does not agree that they would choose candidates in this way for other functions, such as the European Investment Bank and the European Court of Auditors. So we have three questions. First of all, is the current arrangement good? Secondly, will the Committee on European Union Affairs actually make progress in the area of democratic deficit by giving its opinion, which the Government does not need to take into account? And thirdly, will a new way, which we will be able to legislate by the end of the hearing, also be suitable for the selection of candidates for other functions, not just commissioners? The first question, the real question is whether the current arrangement is good, is of course rhetorical, as has been shown in practice. In Slovenia, we saw a government resigning from – a government that unsupervisedly appointed its president and its foreign minister as its candidate; and at a meeting where it was not necessary to vote with the majority of the votes of the government, as if to decide on what sidewalk in The Watchtower near Kranj. Because in a high European policy, they are pursuing a ritual to make democracy appear, almost always what kind of Commissioner flies away. This time, for obvious reasons, we were a weak member in Slovenia. That is why they bear the blame of the former and current government, but that is irrelevant, for the shame was all-Slovenian. The current regime is therefore not good and the question is whether the proposed solution is any better. Our assessment in the United Left is that it's a cosmetic repair. Of course, it is better for the candidates to present themselves to the Committee on the Affairs of the European Union and for the Government to decide on this by a simple majority, but the government still has absolutely nothing to do here. The fact is that the opinion of the Committee on European Union Affairs is not legally more binding than public opinion. We know that the Committees of the National Assembly accept many things that the government will not then realize. The National Assembly is therefore only formally included in the current proposal of the proposer. But it will really be included if it actually decides on the candidates. In the United Left, we are therefore thinking about two alternative solutions that we can call temporary and permanent. A temporary solution would be for the government to propose candidates to the parental committee, then the parent committee proposes a certain number of candidates, and the National Assembly eventually elects them. It's the right sequence. From the executing authority to the directly elected authority. The government is the one who proposes; the National Assembly is the one who decides. A more lasting solution or a more radical solution could be some kind of referendum to choose a candidate for Commissioner. If there is a cost problem here, it could be done electronically, which could be an electronic democracy pilot project in Slovenia. Finally, I would like to define myself to the dilemma that has come before the government. Is this a suitable way to appoint Slovenian members in other institutions of the European Union – the European Investment Bank and the European Court of Auditors? I'd start with two cases. On 1 January, a single rescue committee was launched, one of the main institutions to decide on the rehabilitation of banks in Europe within the framework of the new banking union. Member States appointed their members last week, but I strongly doubt that Members in this Chamber know who was appointed and by what criteria. Perhaps those Members who have attended the Committee on European Union Affairs know this, but still most in this Chamber do not know who is a Slovenian member of the Single Rescue Committee, which is one of the main institutions that will decide on the rehabilitation of banks in Europe. This shows a democratic deficit at national level. Another case is the Slovenian members of the European Investment Bank and the European Court of Auditors. These are currently two well-deserved policies, Mr Rop – former Prime Minister, and Mr Cwickl – former Minister. It is now up to us to decide whether these positions should be reserved for dedicated policies, or whether we will make them available to other candidates. In the United Left, we believe that certain democratic standards must also apply to them. While it is true that the European Court of Auditors and the Investment Bank are not political bodies, they are not neutral and are very influential. And that is why democratisation is important at this level, and we believe that we should democratise these two processes as well. Below the line – in the United Left we will support the proposal because it is the first reading. We agree with two solutions. Firstly, by supplementing Article 1 proposed by the proposer, this is to define more broadly the acts and regulations on which the Government must inform and obtain the opinion of the National Assembly. We support the fact that the National Assembly is more involved in these matters. Secondly, we agree with the spirit that the procedure for appointing a candidate for Commissioner must be democratised. We believe that the current solution contained in the proposal is still at the level of cosmetic change; but we hope to come to a more concrete conclusion through the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u105	Thank you. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – will be presented by Mrs Ljudmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u106	Dear President, Honourable Secretary of State, colleague and colleague! The proposal to supplement the law under consideration is the Law on Cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government in matters of the European Union, which governs the relationship between the legislative and executive branches of power in legislative and political decisions to be decided in the European Union. The law was adopted 11 years ago and it is understandable that the shortcomings to be addressed during this period have been evident. Certainly one of the major legal voids in the field of regulating relations between the European Union and Slovenia is the appointment of a Slovenian candidate as a member of the European Commission. It is necessary to regulate the procedure for proposing candidates at individual stages, so we welcome the initiative to discuss this issue. In its opinion on the proposed amendment of the law, the Government also states that the debate on this issue is necessary and that it is necessary to give the National Assembly or the competent working body an appropriate role in the appointment of a candidate for the European Commissioner. We agree with that view. It is absolutely essential that each time the government takes into account the professional competence of candidates for the European Commissioner, the knowledge of the world languages and the knowledge of the institutions of the European Union. For us and for the Christian Democrats, it is also important to ask about the criteria for selecting the candidate which should be taken into account by the government in the process of proposing the European Commissioner. Indeed, the relationship of political forces in the process of selecting Members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament is significantly different from that achieved by political parties in internal parliamentary elections. This was demonstrated in the last elections last year, when the elections of Members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament coincided with the national elections. The complications that have arisen with regard to proposing a candidate or candidate for the European Commissioner are well known. In New Slovenia – we believe that in selecting candidates, we should be an important criterion for the success of the individual party in elections to the European Parliament. In other words, the candidate for the European Commissioner should be proposed by the party that won the European Parliament elections. This criterion should be enshrined in a law that should be respected by each government. In this direction, Christian Democrats are also forecasting the amendment to the next parliamentary procedure. Members of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will support the Proposal for a Law on Complementation of the Law on Cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government on matters of the European Union at first reading, because we believe that the law is needed and that the regular procedure will allow for a sufficiently broad and reasoned debate on outstanding issues in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u107	Thank you. Mr Jani Möderndorfer will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Alliance of Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u108	It was more or less clear to expect, and only a matter of time before we would address these issues, that last year, on the Mandate-Election Commission, which took place on October 3rd and 9th. At the very least, it is right to identify how and how to arrange it. Especially since we joined the European Union in the last three appointments, we have appointed or proposed our candidate as Commissioner, it is more than clear that we have acted as a country as well as two thirds of the other members in the European Union. And that is that it is exclusively within the power of the government. Last but not least, this has never been and never been disputed for the European Union itself. However, the fact is that it is always a question of how many and what limits to include another branch of power, in which case Parliament can participate in such a process, since a number of issues have opened up following the last procedure that took place last summer. I will mention in particular two main concerns, which are likely to be broken down in the further consideration of this proposal for a law submitted by the SDS. There are two solutions in particular. One is when someone wants to have a candidate for hearing in Parliament to check his skills in language and, as my predecessor said, in the knowledge and knowledge of the bodies of the European Union, as well as other references that might be welcome in the performance of the commissioner's task, there is a very simple problem. Firstly, they would be the only country to do the so-called double hearing in this process, as no European country knows. In particular, the question is, What would we really be interrogating him about? Because at the stage where we would do this, it would be a problem because at the time, it was not even possible to know which area this candidate would occupy at all, since this area was offered only by the head of the commission, when the candidates were already known and proposed for election. Therefore, it could only be our assessment to determine whether the candidate is a large enough multipractice to get to know as much and as much matter as possible, so that he can be used for something that we do not even know what the candidate really would be. Another problem that arises in such a process is what if we decided in the process itself to do so and somehow expected that after knowing the known matter which area it would cover; if we had decided that such a candidate was not suitable or had failed such a hearing, the whole system could be undermined. You know how this has been done, at least in the last phase, when deciding when a new commission or a new one could start working, this has moved three, four months into a space of time due to a disagreement or a shift. We must not forget, too, that we have some rules that we have committed ourselves to at the time of the entry into the European Union when we signed the European Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, where certain things are more or less written, when and under what conditions an individual member enters and through which authorities. And it is more than clear that the government is the one who communicates with the European Commission, not the Parliament; not the appointment itself, not in this way. Of course, we do not mind answering that Parliament is included as a legislative branch of power in the process as some kind of consultative body with the Government, where the Government presents its intentions. In no way can this be a binding or even decisive argument as to what the Government will actually do. And far away, I think it is the least appropriate candidate for a party to win European elections within an individual member, because then the argument that the Government is the one that is proposing to the European Commission, especially if the power ratio in the government is completely different. We have also seen this in the last instance of how it looks when in European elections voters express their will differently from what is actually in the real state. As you may recall, there has been a rare occurrence in recent times that we have not known before, and this is that the government has practically resigned since the European elections took place. In fact, there was no comparable pattern at all so that we could talk about who had the word and who did not. We all know that, even under our existing legislation, the derogating government must carry out all its obligations until the last day until the new government comes; with one restriction that it cannot propose new proposals. We will probably talk further, I hope, but less attention will be paid to the attention that I hope to claim that we have done especially poorly at the last appointment to the detriment of the Republic of Slovenia. I believe that the reasons, the obvious and the interpretations will be such and different. We will participate in the debate on how to resolve or see and improve the proposal put forward by the SDS, so that we can reach a common consensus that will first and foremost support what we have agreed with Europe on the basis of the European Treaty and our existing legislation. The act is suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u109	Thank you. Mr Kamal Izidor Shaker will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Mir Cerar Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The area of European affairs has been in recent years, as in our national space, it has been well on the sidelines. This is not least proof of the amendment of the law that is before us today and proposed by our opposition group SDS. Partial solutions and ad hoc reactions in European Union matters have unfortunately become a constant in many respects in the Republic of Slovenia. We are therefore of the opinion of the SMC Group that we should start proactively to devote ourselves to legislative activities and political developments at European level also in the context of the Slovenian parliamentary process. The European Commissioners represent the pillars of the executive powers of the European Union. They are responsible for the drafting of European legislation and thus propose directives, regulations and other legal acts. In addition, in the framework of the work of the Commission, they oversee the implementation of European legislation in the Member States, and it is therefore crucial that the best individuals and individuals occupy the posts of the European Commissioners. It follows that the selection or selection process of Commissioners is one of the most important appointments of officials in the European Union institution. The appropriate nomination of the candidate for Commissioner in the national state is important as the selection process in the Member States is also starting. The procedure for proposing or appointing candidates and candidates for Commissioners may be carried out autonomously by the Member States from which they come. Various actors from different countries are involved in these procedures. Governments, as executive bodies, already have the most power in this regard, and other institutions, particularly parliaments and the Presidents of the countries, have a certain role to play. The involvement of the legislative body in the process of appointing Commissioners and candidates in the Member States of the European Union is not a predominant approach. Parliaments are involved in such procedures only in eight countries. However, in the SMC Group, we believe that, in terms of transparency and supervisory role of the National Assembly, the latter should be involved in the appointment of a Slovenian candidate or candidate. We are also of the opinion that consideration should be given to the involvement of the National Assembly in the appointment of some other representatives of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union, but we must approach this with due thought, precision and due professional analysis. It follows from the above that in the SMC Group we are inclined to regulate the area opened by the SDS proposal of colleagues, although we believe that this time they are trying to move again where it is not urgent at all; but we do not, in principle, defend the Members and Members of the Mir Cerar Party, as we have already demonstrated several times. At the beginning of the mandate, we stressed that the existing or non-existent system of appointment was questionable and lacking. The proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government in matters of the European Union, which we are dealing with today, regulates this area to some extent; however, it should be recalled that the so-called grey areas, which should have been regulated long ago in previous mandates, should be re-joined in part. Nevertheless, at this stage in the SMC Group we will support this amendment of the law, as it represents a step in the right direction. In our agreement, we have also committed ourselves to the regulation of the explicit area addressed by the proposal, which we have further confirmed by adopting an appropriate decision already mentioned at the 2nd urgent meeting of the European Union Affairs Committee. Nevertheless, we would like to point out in the SMC Group that we are not fully satisfied with the Roco-Species proposal, as we will also point out in the next debate. At this point, in particular, I would like to draw attention to our disagreement with the idea that the government would send more than one candidate or candidate to the national elections; even less so as more candidates or candidates propose to the newly elected President or President of the European Commission. We believe that the basic task of the Government as the institution of the executive branch is to choose only one person in accordance with the interests of the Republic of Slovenia and the European Union. This choice is not and must not become the domain of either the National Assembly or the President or the President of the European Commission. In the SMC Group, we will support the proposal for amendments to the law under consideration. Before the second reading, we will re-examine it and make proposals for appropriate substantive changes and additions.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u111	Thank you. The position of the SDS Group will be presented by Mr Andrej Chus. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u112	Thank you for your word. Last September, we called on the European Union Affairs Committee to amend the legislation to include the National Assembly in the process of appointing the European Commissioner or the European Commissioner from the Republic of Slovenia. To date, the government has done nothing, so we have proactively taken action in the Slovenian Democratic Party to implement the decisions and commitments adopted. The procedure for appointing Slovenian candidates or candidates for membership of the European Commission in the Slovenian legal order is not regulated. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 153 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, each individual act and act of a State authority must be based on a law or legal provision. The aim of the law is to regulate the procedure for the appointment of Slovenian candidates for members of the European Commission with a view to the precise definition of the individual stages of the proposal and thus to increase transparency and to determine the responsibility for the appointment of candidates. It is also intended to determine the application of this procedure to those representatives of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Community, unless otherwise provided for in the second law. The proposal for a law means the implementation of a decision adopted by the Committee on European Union Affairs at its 2nd urgent meeting on 17 September 2014 and reads as follows: The Committee on European Union Affairs proposes to prepare a proposal for amendments and to supplement the Law on Cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government in matters of the European Union, which will include the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia as a directly-loved representative body of all citizens and citizens in the process of appointing members of the European Commission and of the Republic of Slovenia. The principles followed by the proposal are transparency, the provision of a legal procedure for the selection of candidates, the participation of the legislative branch of the authorities. The main solution of the Proposal for a Law on Complementation of the Law on Cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government in matters of the European Union is to define the procedure for the appointment of a candidate or candidate for a member of the European Commission in a multi-stage procedure involving the parent working body in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall initiate the selection process for a member of the European Commission. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia then selects one or more candidates to be heard by the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia responsible for the affairs of the European Union. The Committee shall adopt a report on the hearing and a reasoned opinion for each of the candidates or candidates. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is not bound to the opinion of the Committee. Following a hearing, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall propose one or more candidates or candidates for membership of the European Commission. The decision on the choice of the Government or the rejection of an individual candidate or candidate must be reasoned. The final proposal for a candidate or candidate for a member of the European Commission must be made at a regular meeting of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in order to ensure respect for Article 16 of the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, namely that the Government adopts decisions and decides by a majority of all members. The procedure shall be used mutatis mutandis to propose or appoint representatives of the Republic of Slovenia by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to bodies or organisations established under the rules of the European Community, such as the European Investment Bank, the European Court of Auditors; unless it is regulated in any of the other laws. This complement eliminates any legal void and confusion as regards the way in which other representatives are appointed to the institutions of the European Community. As proposers, we have also summarised the practice of some other countries in the law. In Poland, the Council of Ministers shall appoint a candidate as a member of the European Commission in accordance with the Law on the cooperation of the Council of Ministers with the Parliament on matters relating to membership in the European Union. They shall submit the proposal to Parliament. The European Union Affairs Committee shall then deliver an opinion on the candidate within 21 days of receipt of the proposal. At a meeting of the Committee open to the public, the candidate shall be presented with the support of the representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The candidate shall also present his views on the future situation in the European Commission. A discussion shall then be held in which the members of the Committee shall raise questions. The members of the Committee shall vote on the candidate below; the opinion may be positive or negative. The Council of Ministers shall not commit the opinion of the Committee on European Union Affairs and may appoint a candidate who has received a negative opinion. In this case, the Council of Ministers is obliged to inform the Committee on the Affairs of the European Union of the appointment of a candidate and explain why they have not decided in accordance with the opinion. The European Commission, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Auditors and the Director of the European Investment Bank are governed by the Law on Cooperation between Parliament and the Government on European Affairs, Article 15. The application procedure shall be carried out within the framework of the Government proposing the candidate. The government is then obliged to send a report on the candidate to Parliament. The report shall be discussed by the Committee on the Affairs of the European Union and adopted and forwarded to the President of Parliament, which shall forward it to the Government. The opinion of the government's selection board is not binding, but if the government does not take into account the opinion of the committee, it must send an explanation to Parliament, which they are then discussing. There is no provision for a hearing of candidates either in law or in Parliament's Rules of Procedure, but it could be carried out in accordance with the rules. In the Czech Republic, the Government shall forward the names of candidates for functions in the institutions of the European Union to the Committee on European Affairs of the Chamber of Ambassadors. The Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Members shall govern the procedure for dealing with candidates in its 109.c. That Article provides that the Government shall submit to the Committee on European Affairs for discussion the names of candidates for members of the European Commission, the Judges of the Court of Justice of the European Union and the members of the Management Board of the European Investment Bank. The second paragraph of that Rule of Procedure expressly provides that that Committee must consider the nominations submitted before the Government takes a final decision. The candidates shall be heard at the meeting of that committee and their members may ask them questions. The Committee has no right to confirm the candidate. The Government is not legally bound by the opinion of the Committee and therefore does not need to take into account its positive or negative opinion on the candidate. One last case, the case of Bulgaria. The Rules of Procedure of the Bulgarian Parliament, in its 119th Article, provide that the competent Parliamentary Committee on European Affairs and the supervision of European funds shall hear candidates for posts or functions in the institutions of the European Union. The candidates proposed by the Government must attend the hearings and answer the questions raised by the members of that committee. However, it is not prescribed for the Government to take into account the opinion of the Committee on Candidates. Since in the Slovenian Democratic Party, with the proposal for a law, we also want to bring about the widest possible debate with a view to finding optimum solutions, we are putting the amendment of the law on a regular basis, i.e. in three readings. The time for substantive debate and the search for the best solutions will be enough. Today, it is only our task to bring the law into the process, with the general agreement expressed, and to allow us to close together the awkward story that opened during the last two governments' exchange period. We believe that the law is suitable for further consideration and deserves the support of the government and the opposition. However, while we are an opposition party, we are following some of the objectives of the coalition treaty, where the coalition treaty in section 9 of the Foreign Policy states: We will work to amend and supplement the law on cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government in the field of the European Union. We will complement the law with an agreement on how the appointment of the European Commissioner from Slovenia will take place in the future. As it also provides for the decision of the 2nd Emergency Meeting of the European Union Affairs Committee, proposed and endorsed by the Coalition majority on 17 September 2014, the Committee proposes to prepare a proposal for amendments and to supplement the Law on Cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government in matters of the European Union, which will include the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia as a directly-loved representative body of all citizens and citizens in the process of appointing members of the European Commission and of the Republic of Slovenia. Since the solution contained in the proposal by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia continues to play a primary role in the appointment process and we do not limit it in any way, of course we are counting on support. The opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia also shows that the proposal is favourable and is ready to participate in the procedure. The opposition must strive to achieve greater transparency in the functioning of the government, and that is exactly what this law is following. The opposition also supported the conclusions of the European Union Affairs Committee last September. The draft law ensures the appropriate role of the National Assembly in the process of appointing a candidate or candidate for the European Commission and thus enables the exercise of the function of democratic control. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the amendment of the Law on Cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government in European Union matters. We invite you to join us in this. At the end of this, I would like to express my satisfaction at the abundance of substantive and concrete proposals to supplement the law by the Mir Cerar Party, the United Left, New Slovenia. All the proposals were in place, and we are really looking forward to furthering the consideration of the law on the parent's working body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u113	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mrs Ludmila Novak has the floor to prepare Mrs Vojka Shergan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u114	Thank you for your word. Concerns were raised by the government party whether now is the time for discussion. I think it's about time. Why? Because we don't know who's gonna win the election again after all this time. We must now set criteria for all times and for all governments. In Novi Slovenija, we advocate that one of the criteria – including the outcome criteria of the European elections – be respected. Why is that important? Voters shall also express their support to a particular party or candidate, who shall be assessed as having European competences, so that he is qualified to perform such a function. And what if this member of the opposition happens to be someone else at the government in Slovenia? I think this may also be an advantage, of course, if this candidate is qualified and competent enough. Therefore, it is not only that a member is a member of a party, but that a party proposes it and this party also guarantees its competence. Why is an individual and his abilities so important in European institutions? There are countries that are stronger, because they also have a stronger number of Members, more influence and so on; we cannot act with this because we have fewer Members, so the individual is still important. Because, at least in the European Parliament, an individual has an influence if he is perceptive, if he has knowledge, if he can make contacts, if he has certain competences. It can be very successful despite the fact that European bureaucracy is complicated, that all these institutions are complex, but that is why it is still an important competence of an individual. I think that, even as a country, we are taking too little advantage of these opportunities offered by the European institutions. Why? The involvement of the government, the European Members, the Commissioner and other people who represent us in the European institutions is extremely important. As I have said, competence is extremely important and European institutions must not be a parking lot of served or deserved political personnel, but there are people who can represent us, who can make the right proposals, who know where things are going, and they respond to it in time. There was also talk about how far away European institutions are. This is partly true, and we are partly responsible for this because we are not interested in them because we take elections to the European Parliament as unnecessary because we are talking about less important things or about different affairs. But we are not talking about the essential things that are necessary, which are characteristic of an institution and what kind of people must operate in these institutions. And this interaction between people from different institutions with the government is very important. I would say that the European Parliament, as I have heard one comment, is unattainable; it is achievable. We know that it accepts every year, each Member has a quota of how many people from the country can bring to Parliament, to know European institutions. We just need to make use of this, monitor the situation, and then be more informed, more informed, and realize that we are part of the system in which we went voluntarily. We have not yet made a decision to get out of this system, although we do not like many things in this system, many things are amassed, many things are unnecessary, many things need to be improved and so on. That is why I support the proposal for these amendments, because I think it is a good time to look at what is important for our candidate for Commissioner and, last but not least, we have the European Union Affairs Committee in Parliament. And if anyone or anywhere, then right here is the place to question, let's check out our candidate. He will certainly not know all the areas because there are too many of them, but some general visibility, some general knowledge of the institutions, the functioning of the European Union, and at such a hearing he can certainly show that we will not blush when he has more to show at the hearing in the European Parliament. Of course, then it's the government's responsibility to suggest it or not, or it'll be someone else. However, I do not imagine that the Government would push its head through the wall and propose a candidate, who, at a hearing in the National Assembly, the Slovenian Home Committee, failed to prove himself wrong or even proved negative. This is how we support the debate in New Slovenia, it is necessary to adopt clear criteria for our candidate for Commissioner, also in the future, and then we will be less embarrassed both in Slovenia and in the European institutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u115	Thank you. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert wanted the text. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u116	Madam President, thank you so much for your words. First of all, I would like to thank you for your principled support in this first procedure of law. I would also respond to some of the concerns that have somehow come to light during the debate and may help to support this law even more optimisticly. First, as far as the largest coalition party is concerned, there was a talk about handball. I don't think so. In fact, handball would mean that this bill would be proposed after a reduced procedure where a broader debate would be impossible. On the contrary, we want the same. We wanted this debate to be as broad as possible, that there was still a great deal of time available to change the law, to supplement it, and I said it on behalf of the proposalr in the introduction. Therefore, thank you once again for all the well-intentioned constructive proposals. We didn't even talk about the E.R. anywhere. You know, but a moment to adopt this law seems more than appropriate. For the worst part is that it would seem to us that these changes would be made when they were just before their appointment, for example, by the European Commissioner. This seems to be foolish and that when some political scene is already so heated that they change such a law. So I think that this fear is too much and it's not about any handiwork, nor is it because look at what he's accepted and when he's accepted the parental committee. 17. 9. In 2014, the EU Affairs Committee adopted the following decision: the Committee proposes to prepare a proposal for amendments and to supplement the Law on Cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government in matters of the European Union, which will include the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia as a directly-loved representative body of all citizens and citizens in the process of appointing a member of the European Commission and of the Republic of Slovenia. I think this conclusion was clear and it's been almost half a year since it was adopted, so I really think it's too much to talk about some speed. Finally, it is right to quote the article of the Coalition Treaty: amendments and additions to the cooperation law between the National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the field of the European Union. We will complement the law with an agreement on how the appointment of the European Commissioner from Slovenia will take place in the future. And that is precisely the objective of the proposed amendments. So I think it's possible that there's too much here to be afraid of some kind of overly quick procedure, but even less, I think it's right to be afraid of SD representatives who somehow see some black clouds. Look, you mentioned two procedures; one is what is the procedure when we appoint ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and now when we are talking about appointing a European Commissioner. Look, it's a big difference. In fact, when we talk about the Government, it is only a different period, we appoint the Government for 4 years, and we appoint Commissioners for 5 years. Last but not least, it is the Commissioner of the Republic of Slovenia who will do this work, which is a candidate who must somehow be out of those – as I would say – opposition and positional debates. We are probably talking about an expert, and it is very important here that some consensus has been reached and it is therefore right for the home committee to speak about this. So I don't think it's necessary to be afraid of anything else here and that it's a proponent, says the Slovenian Democratic Party, about it just being well-intentioned and we want somehow these solutions given that we all know what was going on. I would also like to respond to some of the concerns of the Alliance. Look, it's not true we're gonna be the only country. I think we have also presented some other countries with a similar procedure in the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Indeed, it is true that we were the only country that we were practically on the same issue, which is said to be the same candidate, I am not speaking as a person, I am talking about candidates for office, in a month and a half, we have decided in the Government in different ways. There were different ways, while the rules of procedure were exactly the same. [[Incomprehensible]] But here we have been to a unique person, and this is exactly what he wants to change this amendment to the law, so that the method of appointment, procedures will be clear and unequivocal. But, as it is said, I am still talking about the possibility of adding a lot more, so we must also somehow reject the view that it is merely beauty repairs. It is not possible, for if these changes were then in effect, these two events could not take place within a month and a half, as they were called. It is a matter of making it clear that such appointment would take place at a regular government meeting and that it is clear when any of the proposals is adopted. So much for now, if necessary, I will also come by. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u117	Thank you. She has a word, Mrs. Vojka Shergan. Get ready, Mr. Jean-Mahnič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u118	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Madam Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! I would like to present my position as well as the SMC Group on the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on Cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government in European Union Matters. We believe that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is proposing only one candidate or candidate for a member of the European Commission at its meeting. After that, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall submit a candidate or candidate to the National Assembly for discussion, of course, to the home committee for European Affairs. Then, in order to set a 21-day deadline within which the European Affairs Committee is obliged to consider the proposal submitted for a candidate or candidate. Then, at the Committee on European Union Affairs, the hearing, where the candidate or candidate is presented, presents his views on the future situation in the European Commission. Of course, the members of the committee shall also raise questions, vote on the appropriateness of the presentation followed by a report and an explanatory opinion on the suitability of the candidate or candidate. Of course, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is not bound by the opinion given by the Committee on the Affairs of the European Union and this hearing or presentation is to take place before the final decision of the Government on the candidate. The Government should then be obliged to submit its final decision on its choice to the Committee on European Union Affairs. With regard to the procedure for appointing representatives of the Republic of Slovenia to other institutions, a thorough examination should first be made of which additional appointments should be settled by amending that law. It is also not necessary that the final proposal for a candidate be made at a regular government meeting, as the bill should focus only on the government's obligations in the said procedure vis-à-vis the national assembly, but cannot regulate the internal procedures of the government, as set out in the bill. In short, we will support the proposal of the Act on Supplements to the First reading, but of course we will add proposals for appropriate amendments to the Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u119	Thank you. Mr. Jean Mahnič has the floor. Get Mrs. Andreja Potočnik ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u120	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues! I believe that any such proposal, which in some way gives greater weight to Parliament itself or to the National Assembly, is commendable and, of course, must be accepted, as Mrs Shergan has said. It will also consider many of these measures worth considering for support. I believe they'll come in the form of amendments later. In short, it was also our intention, on the one hand, to draw up a framework law on which, we then assumed, you would table amendments. I'm glad we're at least that united. I believe that none of us here wants the Commissioner's saga, as we have witnessed since the last European elections, to repeat and, if ever, then, now that the European Commission has established itself and things have consolidated, it is time to discuss how we will then choose our Commissioner or Commissioner after the next European elections, to avoid the complications of the procedures and the means of appointment that we have witnessed in the last case. It has also been said that, for example, Poland, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Romania, Austria have similar arrangements, that the aim is, above all, to make the National Assembly or the interested mother's labour body familiar with the candidate, candidate or even possibly more; to conduct the hearing even if it is not – as Mr Möderndorfer said at the outset – from the beginning a well-known area. I think it is right, however, that the candidate for the European Commissioner is someone who has some broad knowledge not only in an area for which he will then run, but also in other areas. I believe that Slovenia is also approaching the other countries of the European Union with this proposal, as the Government has said. It is important that we also address the National Assembly, not least we are Members and Members of Parliament who are elected by the people and who confirm the government. It is also right that the National Assembly should give an opinion, which, of course, is not binding under this law, although in some way it is expected from the Government to take account of the opinion of the National Assembly, even though we have already witnessed in this mandate that it has ever been the other way. I will, of course, support this proposal, and we will see below – depending on what amendments will come – but any movement from the current dead point is worth supporting, as this proposal and also the proposals previously mentioned by Mrs Shergan suggest.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u121	Thank you. Mrs Andreja Potočnik has the floor to prepare himself for Mr Mag. Matthew Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u122	Madam President, thank you for your word. Dear Madam Secretary, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! As already mentioned, from past experience, the appointment of a Slovenian candidate or candidate for a member of the European Commission can be seen that this area really needs to be regulated. Perhaps in defense of my colleague Shaker, as far as handball is concerned, given that the Commissioner is appointed, we still have a good four years to deal with this. It is true that it has been six months since that conclusion, but that is not essential at all. The fact that this matter needs to be settled has also been identified by coalition partners and we have already written in the coalition contract itself that we will agree on this area in the Law on Cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government in matters of the European Union – what is today in the first reading. The procedure for proposing nominations for European Commissioners differs mainly between the members of the European Union as regards the bodies involved in the selection process, in principle the main word of the Government, and also the role of other bodies such as Parliament or even the President of the State. I agree that the Slovenian Parliament would also have an additional weight in appointing a Commissioner or Commissioner. Thus, for example, the Committee on European Union Affairs would hold a hearing and a debate in which members of the Committee raise questions. I also agree at this point with my colleague, Mr Möderndorfer, that we will also have to decide what will be the end of this issue if we do not yet know in which area the Commissioner or Commissioner will act. This hearing, which will certainly be very receptive to the media, will in some ways add additional weight in terms of transparency and the properness of the candidate. It may also be possible to check the knowledge of a foreign language, and at this hearing it would be an option. I am in favour of the proposal of the law on amendments on this basis, as I would have said before, but would like to propose some amendments that we will consider on the working body itself. In view of the last experience we have in appointing a Slovenian candidate or candidate, I personally believe that it would be more important for the government to be united in the first instance, it is said that it itself proposes only one candidate and not more than it was written in the proposal. It seems important to me that we are united within the country and that we are not sending more candidates to Europe and that in this way others will choose instead of Slovenia. With this, the country is losing credibility. I would like to stress, however, that we are aware that the European Commissioner must represent the interests of the European Union and not the individual Member State from which it comes. The Commissioner must be publicly subdued, the European must be taken and independent personally, which we must take into account when proposing Commissioners to the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u123	Thank you. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin, prepare Mr. Uroš Prikl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u124	Dear colleagues and colleagues! I think we are discussing important things, how we will appoint a Commissioner in the future. I think that the Commissioner's function is one of the most important, if not even the most important, role in the institutions of the European Union, where we can appoint our people. I have a feeling that in these discussions, in a way, a little bit of Balkan logic is mirrored, and I'm going to explain why. Some of you debate and say, yes, but the Commissioner is not a representative of Slovenia, but he must represent the interests of the European Union What can they then do for Slovenia, according to home? Clearly, this is a Balkan logic that if we put someone somewhere, there is always something that has to be passed by the rules, as it were, or arranged for the country. It's not necessary. This man, appointed to a position, can make an important contribution to the improvement of European Union directives and regulations and thus to a perfectly legal way of contributing to a better and better life in Slovenia. It is, therefore, necessary to look at the integrated Western European way and not so much in any other way, why this Commissioner's function is important. That's one aspect I wanted to point out. Another aspect — what do we call it? Today, the appointment of the European Commissioner is practically in the hands of the government. We in this house always heroize ourselves as an independent and independent branch of power, but it all too often turns out that Parliament or the government coalition is the voting machine of the government coalition or government. In this House, I think – I will put it this way – that this Parliament and Members are all too hard and inflexible to opposition proposals and too superficial to coalition proposals. I also speak for myself, for everyone, left and right, that no one would misinterpret this, that this is a matter of the current coalition or just the current opposition. But when I talk about this Parliament, I speak in the sense that when certain laws are being dealt with, always government laws, if you are part of a coalition, are uncritically supported and advocated, while opposition laws are usually rejected. I would like to overcome this logic, but when we look at marriages, we can also look at what is good for the country, perhaps even in some other countries that we do not like most. I will give an example of America, where even sometimes Democrats vote against their President, draw with Republicans or vice versa. So if we want to establish this house and the legislature as one of the important institutions in shaping European policies, then it is only right that we take more autonomy to adopt such an arrangement, where our word will count more. So, if I say very concretely now, if we take the decision on the European Commissioner into our own hands. Not that it's just a matter of government and coalition and government buying, but that it's a matter of parliament. That seems important to me. The third thing I would like to point out in this debate is that European elections are increasingly becoming some non-diggage elections. Elections with low electoral participation, if, that's something out there that we can't influence and we don't even care. Even if you look, with the exception of perhaps New Slovenia, who were the first winners of the European elections and are always of great importance to us, the parties to these European elections do not always run for first-class or most important policy-makers of individual parties, which is nothing wrong with the fact that no one will get the wrong idea, but I am talking about that one measure could make European elections much more important, and this measure is that the result of the European elections would also depend on the appointment of the Commissioner. So that the result of the European elections would be crucial to where the Commissioner would come from. This proposal, which is before us today, does not yet include this, but I see the possibility that this matter will be upgraded in subsequent discussions and amendments and the next options we have. However, I would definitely include this issue in order to ensure that the result in the European elections is crucial to what types the European Commissioner comes from. If we could do that, we would actually give the greatest authority practically to humans. Since everything else is a matter of political calculations, weighing and current power relations, as far as the European Commissioner is concerned, if you say that the result of the European elections is important to the European Commissioner from tomorrow, the dimension is completely different. Suddenly European elections become much more important, much more interesting. In some ways, those who want to be European Commissioners are forced to run in these European elections too, are made available, not only when they need to share functions, but also when they go before people, talk to them, tell them what they are advocating, what they agree with and what they are up against. I think that if we went into a system like this, we would do it all in a much more transparent way. There may not be another replica in terms of whether that means now, for example, if someone wins the European elections, that that European Member should also be the Commissioner. No, no, no. This means that if we look at the whole story in terms of European political families as they are in Brussels, then the story should go roughly: if a European Socialist family wins, then they propose their own candidate of their own kind; if a European family of conservatives or the European People's Party wins, it comes from these kinds. If I conclude slowly, I think that the current process is relatively imprecise and has only made people even more distant, alienated from these functions and that small corrections could make the whole story more democratic, more close to people and for all of us, and for all of us, who will submit to these functions, much more interesting. Of course, this law in this first reading has my support, as I have already said, and I would like to see that in further procedures it is also improved in this direction, in order to take the results of European policies into account in the final appointment of the Commissioner.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u125	Thank you. Mr Uroš Prikl has the floor to prepare Mr Kamal Izidor Shaker.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! I am extremely pleased that the vast majority of Members and Members of the National Assembly agree that this law is suitable for further consideration. I think that's the right thing to do. We, in Desus, have already advocated this position, or the idea, in preparing the coalition agreement, that the law should be supplemented and that cooperation between the Government and the National Assembly should be upgraded in some way. It seems important to us at this point that there should be no repetition of such or similar farce as was the last time Slovenia was appointed Commissioner-in-Office of the European Union. It seems essential to us here that there is a greater importance and role for the Assembly of State and this proposal here, that the Council of State is also involved in the appointment of our representative to the European Commission, I think we have taken a step forward. My desire or our desire in Desus is, of course, to achieve the broadest possible consensus, or consensus, on who will be our representative, who will represent Slovenia in the European Commission and also in other institutions. Undoubtedly, the multi-phase procedure introduced by the proposal to amend this law will make a significant contribution to this, I am sure. I have told the introductions that we stand in the position of Desus, that this law is suitable for further consideration, but, of course, some open issues, perhaps some inconsistencies, inconsistencies that are at the next stage, must be addressed in the next reading. I'm only gonna personally throw some. Firstly, there is still a dilemma as to whether, after some procedures, we will coordinate these names after some stages, that is one name of one representative or that list of several names. Personally, I am committed to reaching as much consensus as possible and to unifying ourselves on one behalf. Secondly, I am pleased, too, to say this in the introduction, that the National Assembly is involved in this multi-phase process and that it comes, on the basis of the Government's position, the name or a few names in the National Assembly, the working body, which then decides which names are appropriate or which name is appropriate and then turns this decision back to the Government. Of course, I would like to, but here I sincerely and 100% wanted not to use that discretion of the Government to take into account or disregard the opinion of the parent working body, but to give one confidant to the parent working body and that name, which has been or will be harmonised here, is also proposed as the future European Commissioner. I may see a dilemma here that the debate will not also take place in the plenary of the National Assembly, but when it comes to the working body of the mother, I suppose that the National Assembly in the entire composition could also say something on this subject and adopt a position and mediate it to the Government. Here, perhaps to consider whether this is a good thing or whether it is a process such as it is, we also support it. As it is said, it seems essential to me that when a feedback or response from the National Assembly comes back to the executive branch of power, I believe that, at the final stage, there is nothing wrong with the executive branch of authority to decide who our representative will be, but I stress once again, the confidence of Parliament and that the discretion that the Government may or may not take into account this opinion of the National Assembly is not taken into account. And in conclusion and forward. I am convinced that this is, if not the most important, one of the most important functions, the positions in the bodies of the European Union, that is, the Commissioner's seat. But I am sure that analogy should also be drawn to propose or appoint our Slovenian representatives also to other bodies and organisations, of course, where the special law does not provide otherwise. Therefore, this procedure should also be taken into account meaningfully for our representatives in bodies such as the European Investment Bank and the European Court of Auditors. I am convinced that, on the basis of some of the other proposals, the improvements that will be made during this debate and through the further process, I am convinced that we can formulate such a procedure, such a law that will be worthy of our choice of candidate for the European Commissioner and other bodies of the European institutions. As it is said, we estimate that the law is suitable for further consideration and has full support in the Desus Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u127	Thank you. Mr Kamal Izidor Shaker has the floor to prepare Mr Matjaž Germany. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. As already stated in the position of the Group of Members, the proposal in question referred primarily to the procedure for appointing the Slovenian candidate for membership in the European Commission. If we leave the other functions that I think should be fully listed and possibly more defined, on the basis of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in the third paragraph of Article 17, the members and members of the European Commission could be elected for a term of five years on the basis of their general competence and commitment to Europe among persons whose independence is beyond doubt. Their high professional character and commitment to the European project are particularly important due to the fact that they represent the interests of the European Union as a whole and not the partial interests of the Member States from which they come. I am sorry that Mr Luka Mesec has left, including perhaps in response to Mr Tonin, that – yes, the European Commissioner must be independent and must not represent the interests of the Member State from which he comes. Maybe if I go back a little bit. It has been 11 years since we first appointed our European Commissioner. It is said that these matters have long been bearded and despite the fact that this has already been exposed several times, I will once again be faced with the problem of appointing a Commissioner or Commissioner in this mandate, less than six months ago. But in fact, we have appointed this representative or representative, who now represents us qualitatively, at least for the time being. Once again, I do not like to go back to the past, but at this point it is necessary to point out some historical facts that have led to what our colleague Dr. Trček would say to us in the last appointment. If I'm going straight. Following his entry into the European Union, the then Prime Minister appointed in 2004 the Minister for European Affairs and twice the European Commissioner, Dr Janez Potočnik. In particular, for the first time in that phase, the opacity of the procedure was exposed and the National Assembly was not included at this point. The second appointment took place in 2009 following a similar pattern for the time of the government, Mr Borut Pahor. Same as five years ago, but with the same, already-checked candidate. Neither has the National Assembly been involved in this procedure. However, we witnessed the third appointment, as mentioned above, six months ago, and then, following the rejection of the elected candidate by the President of the European Commission, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, on the proposal of the President of the Government of Dr Mir Cerar, appointed mag as the European Commissioner. Violetto Bulc. While the appointment process has followed practice, many individuals, some political parties, have once again raised doubts about the transparency of the procedure for appointing a Commissioner or candidate. It should be pointed out here that the short time frame and the indecisiveness of Slovenia in the first phase of this appointment required an extremely quick decision by the Prime Minister of the Government, given that such facts were, in fact, the President of the Government had thus resolved the reputation of the Republic of Slovenia in the European and international space. At that point in time, the President had to react, because he could only delay the appointment of the entire Commission and could further embarrass himself. Nevertheless, I would like to mention here what has already been exposed, but I would like to mention once again that this time the National Assembly was involved in the process, I will not say the appointment, but it was informed of the procedure and this appointment, which was explained and discussed on the European Affairs Committee, and we have also adopted the above-mentioned conclusions and have also commissioned this international comparative study, which we are also talking about today. These proposed amendments to the law, once again I mention that they are partial solutions, I agree that we should sit down and discuss these matters. As far as the rest of this is concerned, I'd like to respond a little. I must say that I am very pleased that colleagues and colleagues from the SDS party are also following our coalition commitments or closely monitoring the implementation of the coalition treaty. But it's a real shame that they don't come together coalitionly before they file some kind of hand-me-hurt law. Perhaps even to Mr Tonin, who is no longer among us today, the appointment of Commissioner in the European elections may not be a trigger for participation in the European elections. However, I have already said about the other election of representatives for the functions of the European institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u129	Thank you. Mr Matjaž German has the floor, we are being prepared by Mr Primož Hainz.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! I am pleased that this debate is taking place at this time. Let me explain. Actually, there was some talk about when the time was best to deal with this problem. I don't think there's ever too much time or time for this. That is how I welcome this initiative by the SDS, I am sure that if you did not do so, perhaps some other opposition party or coalition as such would be, because we have also committed ourselves together in the coalition treaty. This is good because we are aware that the problem is real, it needs to be solved, and this problem has proved to be particularly recent. We are talking about the period of the last Commissioner, when, during this period, all the weaknesses of this way have been demonstrated, which has in practice been practical since the entry into the European Union. This lack of governance has shown us that we do not have a systematic approach to solving this, and the time is right when we are away from any elections, especially those Europeans, so that in some way we can find an argumentable one, I will say, a relation to a problem that would be somewhere in line with all the parties or with their expectations. I will touch on some of the initiatives already put forward. The talk was that in such a case we would have a double hearing in case of candidates. I think it's only a good thing that whoever wants to compete for this function, I don't think it's going to be too much for him to stand before the parliamentarians. This also proves some degree of democracy that we need to introduce, so that each person can further develop and check, because we know, at least on the basis of the last, unfortunate hearings, those first, that they are inexcusable in Brussels and, if I say so humanly, that this will be a small meal for the right candidates. We showed all the weaknesses of our policy at the time of the disgruntled first candidacy; in particular in the separation, we showed our weakness during the times of governmentlessness and, without rules, we embarrassed ourselves in some way before Europe. But I don't mean anything bad, because every time, as you've already found out, someone is on duty, but this is a lesson and a lesson for the future, that we must be aware as a policy that we must first act unitedly, in order to be treated in a uniform way. Once we do that, we'll also be shaking nuts for speculation and manipulators. But well, I think that democracy in Slovenia is developing, that we are on the right track, and we will have to learn something else, but in some immediate future, I hope that we will learn how to deal with such situations. It has been mentioned, one option, that the candidate could come from the winners of the European elections. Here I have to say, I will say, some disagreement on this proposal, and I will also explain why. For the first time in the past European elections – those who are well aware – we have introduced a system where party presidents have been exposed by some American model. Let us remember these debates, which we have all been watching on television, in some ways this Juncker and Schulze electricity have taken over in the finals and, above all, the presidents have been exposed, but according to the current system of elections as we know it – and there must be no mistake and there must be no seduction – the voters are electing candidates for the European Members, not the Commissioner. So if we are to do this, it must be a system-wide regime at European Union level, and then it is known that we have the right to elect a Commissioner in addition to European Members. So far it has been that the government has been the one who proposed and people have trusted in parliamentary elections, who decides on such functions. This is a matter of view, I believe that the proposaler will disagree with me, but I see no reason why the winner of the European elections would have the right to propose to the Commissioner. But good, we'll talk about it. It's just my view of the suggestions. The Balkan logic was also mentioned several times, and I liked this expression in this context, which I think is good to mention, because the Slovenians are always more papal than the pope in this regard. It is true, and it is also right that we all formally like to say that it represents the interests of the European Union, but if you do not tell any of us and that remains between us, I doubt that the countries in their privacy think that way, everyone will somehow look at where it will be within the family of the European Union and its integrity as a single country in some way privileged in this sense, and it is almost impossible to deny. But that's the way it is, it's the nature of man. It is right that we stick to the framework, but even before certain things, I believe it is difficult to cover our eyes. So much for now. I believe there will be some disagreement with my implementation and perhaps later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u131	Thank you. Mr Primož Hainz has the floor to prepare Mr Simon Zajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u132	Madam Vice President, thank you so much for your words! I myself will mention this very briefly or I will address this problem because the appointment of the European Secretary is I do not consider it because of this or I think it is not a problem that we have had this last story around the secretary, one such or another, but I think we should also correct some things in the house, at home, in the country. [[…]] In fact, I'm sure if I'm reading the constitution right, then of course, the people have power. And if the government has a people, then it's indirect power through the National Assembly or members of the National Assembly, plus the referendum, of course, but we don't mention it now. It is said that these procedures – however we begin them – are either one proposal or two; whether they are hearings or when hearings are where the hearings are – but after the Government proposes to the State Assembly Committee on European Affairs, this state-level body, if I say so, prepares for the meeting of the National Assembly and the National Assembly decides on the appointment. For me, so I read the Constitution, the procedure is just that and nothing else. In fact, because we are working differently, sometimes I feel that even, of course, because the European Affairs Committee always decides on some of the time constraints and so on that this is not good either. But, if it is different, then of course we know that we leave now or is now in fact one way or another, but in principle it is always dangerous that the executive branch departs from the legislative authority – the one elected in the direct elections. [[…]] So much more so, of course, this power is separated, we have sometimes called it, when this scale goes up from the government of the country to the government of Europe. So this only contributes to alienation, to nothing else. That is to say, if we want to realize that this Europe will also be a Europe of people who vote at home, then of course it is a procedure, in my opinion, through the National Assembly, of Members of the National Assembly. However, I am of course in favour of the continuation of this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u133	Thank you. Mr Simon Zajc has the floor to prepare Mr. Tillen Christmas Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u134	Thank you for your word! Dear Members! Members of Parliament and Members of the Coalition! I think this bill confirms once again that we have a good coalition agreement. Now, some member of the opposition is going to make a vicious addition that it was time for us to start implementing it, but let's make a joke out of it. The last case, and not just the last one, also the first two cases of the Commissioner's election have shown that we need some more specific arrangements for the appointment of our Commissioner or Commissioner. The last example also showed that the timeline could be problematic. It turned out that the commission could only be in some kind of trouble because of Slovenia. When the debate is on this appointment system, we must also bear in mind that we are flexible in terms of the timeline. In this debate, we will also have to decide what our real purpose is. Our aim is to increase transparency, is it our intention to increase the role of Parliament? I think we agree that the role of Parliament is one that needs to be increased here. But what's the role? Will this be the role of Parliament in increasing transparency? Because in such a form as is now proposed, we are essentially achieving that the transparency of choice is greater. The candidate comes to the Committee on the Affairs of the European Union, introduces himself there, we question him and thus exposes the candidate more publicly. But by doing so, we do not increase the real role of Parliament if we really want to, and if we decide to do so and go in this direction, then we will have to really think in this direction, so that we can then confirm that this is somehow binding. In no country that has a Parliament included in its system is the government committed to Parliament's decision. That's not gonna happen in this case either. Here is the really important question of what exactly will we ask on the Committee on European Union Affairs of this candidate or candidate. What does it matter to us? Does it matter to us that he speaks English? We can't speak Slovenian on these committees. [[…]] Well, who are we to determine whether a person can speak English or not? Is it important for us to know the functioning of the European Union? Knowledge of the European Union is not a talent; it is a skill that a person can learn in a very short time if he is really committed to it. Is it possible that it is more important for us to have the ability to manage, the ability to communicate? In short, what is it that we're going to decide? Will it ultimately only be that, given that we are equally divided in the Committee on European Union Affairs, this committee will once again project more party visions of what this candidate or candidate should be? I think that in this process, when we choose this way of appointing a Commissioner or Commissioner, we must first and foremost pursue one goal; this must be a goal to choose a good candidate. If we achieve this by increasing the role of the National Assembly in order for the National Assembly to confirm at the end of the Commissioner or Commissioner - okay. If this is the way for the National Assembly to contribute only to greater transparency – also fine. However, I think that our main objective and that this debate in the future must go in the direction of choosing a good candidate.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u135	Thank you. Mr. Tillen Christmas has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u136	Thank you for your word. I should first start with the positive aspects of this proposal. I think it's very good that the SDS party made this proposal. This is a little faster than we imagined, given that this was not exactly the highest on the priority list due to the fact that, as previously said, the Commissioners' mandate lasts for five years and, in view of the other things that we have considered to be essential at that time, this is classified slightly lower. Another aspect that I also find good is that the committee responsible conducts the hearing and gives one opinion. We have a European Union Affairs Committee, which I think works very well. We have a special way in Slovenia of how the National Assembly deals with matters that are important for the Republic of Slovenia within the European Union, and I think that this cooperation, which already exists, can probably be elegantly upgraded with this additional competence to carry out this hearing and somehow give one opinion which the Government can then use in further decision-making. As for those matters that I don't like a little bit, this aspect is that the government would appoint one or more candidates. From past practice, I think that the most important thing here in Slovenia is to know who is the most suitable candidate to be sent as Commissioner of the European Union, because I think that sending more candidates is not the most appropriate practice, because this indicates, above all, our own indecisiveness and imperfection, but that we do not really have an opinion on one matter that is crucial both to the European Union and to the end of Slovenia, especially through this good name that this Commissioner can create through his work. I'm not sure that this novel would then regulate all the other positions at the level of the European Union because one is the Commissioner's position; the other is the positions. I think we should definitely go from case to case here. It is not necessary that such an approach, as is appropriate for the Commissioner, is also appropriate for other functions. If I move on then – an interesting point was mentioned by ZaAB that when the National Assembly or the competent Committee for the Affairs of the European Union were engaged or interrogated by that Commissioner, it would not be known which department would cover, which means that the issues would be only more flat-rate or general. So we'd check somehow the breadth of knowledge, maybe some size, some European commitment and so on. But, on the other hand, this seems enough to me, because here, too, between these conditions or what the Commissioner is supposed to show, we are talking about general competence and commitment to Europe, and it is a person whose independence is unequivocal; it is said that there is a position and the question of whether there is such a great deal of special knowledge in the specific field involved here. This is mainly about something, as we have said, latitude, and further to the possibility of some European view on everything and political ability, which must be above what might be expected only to work at the level of some local or state policy. It was also mentioned earlier that we had a little trouble with the SDS party's handiwork. I don't think this was exactly the way it meant, at least not in a bad way, I would go back to what I mentioned at the outset, that we had this a little bit later. In any case, it is the same as always and I think that the fact that the proposal has moved forward is a good gesture by this party. However, in order to obtain support later, I believe that there will be a lot more to be done in the context of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u137	Mr Jernej Vrtovec has the floor to prepare Mrs Eva Irgl.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u138	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the President! So we are talking about a very current topic; we are saying that this has already been behind us, is part of our history – in this case tragic, at least as regards the appointment of the European Commissioner, Commissioner. It was a tragedy in the summer months, and therefore we need to achieve a compromise in the National Assembly, with much more sense and great discretion, and to amend this law as soon as possible. Let me say that not only is it a problem to appoint a European Commissioner, what some have already pointed out in their debates, but there are other appointments that show in fact that there is always an argument or always power, but not one that can be the best. We have, say, the European institutions where today's credit-worthy party staff are called, for example, a member of the European Court of Auditors is entitled to client staff, the Vice-President of the Investment Bank – they are both from the same party. None of them have been confirmed by Parliament; they have been appointed by the government. So, in this country, we are not collecting for candidates in the European institutions the best personnel we can get through, but those who are ours, no matter what they know or how much they're worth. Which would soon have happened in the summer months. Although the President of the European Commission, Mr Juncker, was not committed to the fact that Alenka Bratušek did not accept, but I do not speak ad person, but in fact you are touching one part of the debate, he was not committed to it if the committee rejected it. He could still insist that this is our candidate, his candidate, that she is the European Commissioner. Despite the Committee's view, the European Parliament would be essential in the next phase. Next, if I discuss the bill itself. I fully agree with the law, but I am already announcing the amendment of New Slovenia, so that the European Commissioner can be elected in essence with the European elections. To see how the European Commission is now regulated: the European Commissioner has become Mr Juncker, who was appointed by the European People's Party's Congress in Dublin at the previous European People's Party Congress as President of the European Commission. And Mr Juncker got the majority of Europeans on his side, including votes from Slovenia, because votes for the European People's Party were for Junker to become President of the European Commission. And nothing would be wrong because this is already in practice, this is already in scratch, nothing would be wrong with me in Slovenia to compete with which political group the European Commissioner would be. This would give us the greatest legitimacy possible, who is the European Commissioner in the European Commission from the Republic of Slovenia. The greatest possible legitimacy, people would choose it; not the government, as it is now, because I do not want the saga to happen again six months ago, this is the worst possible option that can happen to us. For this reason, I hope that, in the context of this debate, which is very wide open, we will come to consensus and that we will finally change this law, which is a really bad law that does not respond to times of time and if I respond a little to my colleagues from the SMC, you said that the President of the Government, the current Prime Minister, had prevented this saga from continuing to be a disgrace. He could have prevented this from happening at all; he could have withdrawn the candidate before she left and could have withdrawn Mrs Violeto Bulc today. Today. It is necessary to understand, today, for example, this would be a great shame before the European Union, but somehow the fact that we had a candidate at a hearing in Brussels could be prevented. But we're past this, we have to do everything we can today so it doesn't happen again. The biggest consensus we can get is that all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia vote for the European Commissioner. This is a bold proposal, but at the same time it is very effective or at the same time very interesting and would have the widest legitimacy, because now the European Commissioner has virtual legitimacy only in government. As far as handballing is concerned – well, now that Mr Christmas has already replied – it is essential that the proposal is good, but not by whom and how quickly it is submitted. Whether this is at the beginning of the term of office, at the end of the term of office, is essential that the proposal is a good one. Because this proposal is good, we will also support it in New Slovenia – Christian Democrats. Of course, we will propose, as I have already said, our amendment, which will include that we will be able to reach the European Commissioner from our country a little differently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u139	Mrs Eva Irgle has the floor. Get a government representative ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u140	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Article 17 of the Treaty on European Union provides that the person who will be a member of the European Commission: firstly, professionally qualified; secondly, independent; thirdly, pro-Europeanly oriented; and fourthly, committed to the policy of this Joint United Europe. So these are some of the starting points that the European Union gives us when we decide when we think about candidates for the European Commissioner. It is true, however, that we can think about this when it does not happen to self-candidatures, which happened at the last time, and in the latter case, the self-candidature of Alenka Bratušek was certainly not followed by the starting points laid down in Article 17 of the Treaty on European Union. Given that we have so far not established any clear criteria and not procedures for appointing a member of the European Commission, and given what happened at the last appointment or the last self-candidature of Mrs Alenka Bratušek, of course, it is the only wise and wise decision to adopt this law today. As I can see from the discussion of colleagues and colleagues from the coalition, today this law will also be confirmed, which of course is good, and I also thank all coalition colleagues for supporting this. Why is this so important? For the first time, to avoid such situations as we have been given last time, this is what we call embarrassing, and also because of transparency, this is important. Because of the transparent process itself, when citizens and citizens know what kind of people we are actually sending to the European Union, because these people there represent not only themselves – or I will say otherwise: they represent all of us and the country in particular. Therefore, it is important which person is sent to such important positions. That is why we have proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party that today's law be passed. Within this law, we have clearly defined what the procedure of this appointment should be: the government should therefore call for some criteria, set up a procedure whereby candidates will in some way sign up, those who of course meet the criteria set by the Government. Then the National Assembly is the one to question these candidates. Similarly, I think that it is done in the procedures for ambassadors, so that the hearing would be approximately also held in the National Assembly. Then the National Assembly would give an opinion on these candidates, send him to the government. Of course, this opinion for the Government would not be binding, which means that the Government can or cannot take such an opinion into account. Of course, the Government will then make that final decision, which the candidate actually meets the criteria set by both the European Union and the criteria it has set when it has called for them. Why is it also important that we establish such a transparent method of appointment or nomination procedures for members of the European Commission? It is also because it is right for Parliament to discuss such important issues, because, as has already been said, those who represent such important functions in the European Union represent the whole country, each individual in a given country. Such a way also represents greater transparency, and it will never happen to us that because of the great desire, because of the countless other ambitions it has, it is self-candidate and does not look at the consequences it has for the country. This is an extremely important function, and I am pleased that the coalition will support this law, and I intend to support it myself, and I hope that next time we will be able to discuss a wider range of candidates who will meet some criteria that will be professionally qualified, which will really be able to represent the state of Slovenia on the European floor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u141	The State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has the floor – if that is what she wants, of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u142	Thank you very much, very briefly. I am very pleased to have an active debate on this subject, and I also recommend other European themes to be so active, because this is for us, who are in charge of coordinating European affairs at the foreign ministry, always in support and inspiration. I am pleased that there has also been no opposition to the Government's direct opinion, at least as I have understood this debate, and therefore I also welcome the proposal of opposition parties, as well as of the coalition parties, that the Proposal for a Law on Complements of the Law on Cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government on matters of the European Union is supported and that there is a second reading. In the second reading, I would like to point out in particular that we must then review more closely the text that will be aligned with the acquis of the European Union, in particular the Treaty of Lisbon, which speaks specifically of the appointment of Commissioners, so that the text is as clear as possible. I think it is in everyone's interest that we will not, after having a new text, find that we have overlooked something else, which will carefully regulate these appointment procedures, not just a member of the Commission, if I understand, also some other high-level representatives in the European institutions. Here we must look very closely, and this has also been pointed out to me by our international lawyers, that most of these appointments have already been regulated in some other European Union rules. Above all, the relationship between the national assembly and the government in matters of the European Union and also with the Government Act must be taken into account. However, as you have heard from the outset, the government is ready to work constructively with Members and Professional Services in the National Assembly to prepare this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u143	Ms Anja Bah Žibert has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u144	President, thank you so much for your word. Allow me, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party, as well as the bearer of mags. I thank Anzeta Logar for this principled support in this first reading to allow the law to move forward, and to allow the law to go forward, where we will be able to improve it, in view of the different opinions, including the constructive proposals. Above all, it is important that you have sensed in this proposal that the law is a step in the right direction and that this will solve the issues that have led us to, in the past, blush on the international political floor. This will certainly not happen in the future with the amendment of this law. But let me answer some more questions. I am also a new Member as colleague of Kamal, but you know, the opposition really cannot coalitionly coordinate laws, and that is simply not possible. It would be as if we said that the coalition aligns the laws with the opposition, but that would be a lot easier, and the opposite is certainly not going to work. As far as I am concerned, let me conclude in a kind of good, positive atmosphere, as was the case during the debate, as was somehow highlighted when I read your quote from the Coalition Treaty. I read it exclusively because I wanted to stress with him that it would be right to support this proposal. But since one of the SMC Members made this a joke, let me do the same. True, I quoted part of your coalition contract, and of course, given how long it took you to sign it, I guess there'll be something good about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u145	A replica? Replica, Mr. Kamal Izidor Shaker.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Yeah, it was a joke, and with your help, we're gonna make it easier to do it, so I made a joke.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u147	The replica starts, "You didn't understand me correctly..." But no matter what, all the advertised debaters you wanted to do it, you got your word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. No, no, no. Okay, so I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, on Monday, 9. 3. 2015, in the context of the votes This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 31. This is for the consideration of the Proposal for a DECISION (non-)Efficiencies in the use of European funds for pre-shipment protection. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Commission for the supervision of public finances to the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the member of the Commission, Mrs Urški Ban.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u148	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. All in attendance, all in attendance! The Public Finance Supervisory Commission shall be held at the 6th regular session of the Commission at the 1st meeting of the 6th regular session. 1. 2015 At the time of its consideration of the agenda item, which is the Review Report of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia, the effectiveness of the use of European means of protection against floods, adopted a decision to invite the President of the National Assembly to include a point on the agenda of the meeting of the National Assembly, namely the Proposal for a Decision on the inefficiency of the use of European means of protection against floods. I will then give an explanation of this proposal for a decision adopted and proposed by the Commission and summarised in accordance with the document of the Court of Auditors of the audit report in question. The Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia carried out a review of the effectiveness of the use of European flood protection funds in the period from 1. 1. 2007 to 7. 3. In order to verify that the Republic of Slovenia has made effective use of the available funds of the operational programme for the development of environmental and transport infrastructure for the period 2007 to 2013 to reduce the adverse effects of water in the form of floods. In doing so, it determined whether the preparation and implementation of the projects took place in a substantive and time-effective manner. It also examined whether flood risk reduction projects to be supported by European funds in the 2014-2020 programming period have been effectively developed. The National Programme for the Prevention of Natural and Other Disasters states that floods in Slovenia threaten about 15% of Slovenia's surface. In an area where catastrophic floods are possible, there is a good quarter of the population of Slovenia. The damage caused by the floods in Slovenia, according to data from the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, is increasing from year to year, to more than 40% of the damage caused by natural disasters. For the period 2007 to 2012, damage to water infrastructure is estimated at EUR 424 million and during the same period 174 million was paid out of the State budget for remedial measures and 86 million for the construction of water and other state and municipal infrastructure in the area of new hydropower plants in the lower Sava area. At the same time, in the same period, the resources of the Water Fund amounting to at least 4.4 million per year to a maximum of EUR 31.7 million remained unused and transferred over the following years. At the same time, the Court of Auditors concluded that the Ministry of the Environment and the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Environment of European means to reduce the harmful operation of floodwaters did not use effectively. It was found that, during the 2007-2013 programming period, Slovenia had available 74 million European flood-safety funds. These funds are available for use by the end of 2015. By the end of 2013, the Republic of Slovenia had received only EUR 16.7 million from the European budget. The slow use of funds makes flood safety worse than it could be. The long-term preparation of projects for co-financing from European funds, according to the Court of Auditors, is due to the lack of preparedness or low level of preparedness of projects and the basis for projects when classified in the operational programme and the passive approach of the Ministry in the preparation of projects in the 2007-2010 period. The level of preparedness of projects proposed for co-financing in the 2014-2020 programming period, according to the Court of Auditors, is also not significantly higher at the start of the 2014 programming period than the preparation of projects at the beginning of the previous period, i.e. in 2007. For those reasons, the Commission has adopted a decision to monitor public finances requiring the Government to provide information on the reasons for the poor use of European funds to reduce the adverse effects of floodwaters and measures to improve the situation in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u149	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Dr. Franz the Crusader.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u150	Mr. President, the well-respected High Council! Water is one of the most important treasures of this country and of human society at all. It means an irreplaceable source of living space, energy and many human activities. Slovenia is one of the richest countries in Europe. The total amount of water per year flows through rivers and streams, i.e. to the number of inhabitants four times the European average. According to statistics, 59 rivers run through Slovenia, with a total length of approximately 2 000 500 kilometres. This represents the positive side identified by the statistics, but it also has its negative side. It is hidden in the number of billions and a half of euros, in terms of the damage caused by the floods between 1990 and 2012. In addition to the events, in particular in 2014, the number will increase by a further 100 million. But more than statistics on the importance of providing flood protection are evidenced by the fates of people who have lost their wealth in angry waters, some have spent their lives. In the Group of Social Democrats, we are therefore aware of the responsibility of timely action and of ensuring effective measures, the responsibility the State has in the design and implementation of policies in this area, and we have therefore listened carefully to the results of the review of the effectiveness of the use of European means of flood protection in the period from 1. 1. 2007 and 7. 3. 2014 carried out by the Court of Auditors. In it, the Court finds, or an audit body, that the Ministry of the Environment and the Environment Agency have not used European means to reduce the harmful effects of flood-shaped water. The original sin lies in the preparation of the 2007 operational programme, when the Ministry had no programme and professional basis to allow for the selection of suitable flood projects. The Court of Auditors identified the Ministry’s approach between 2007 and 2009 as passive, resulting in delays in the implementation of the priority direction. While the institution recognises some progress over the next few years, it states that several programming and professional bases are available for the 2014-2020 programming period, but it still considers that they do not provide comprehensive information on what those areas are and in particular on what measures should be addressed in order to minimise flood risk by means of the funds invested. As Mrs Irena Majcen answered one of the questions raised by the Minister for the Environment and Space, there will be a need for greater activation of existing and secured resources in the area of flood security. In doing so, she pointed out that not only financial resources would be sufficient, but human resources would also need to be strengthened, as only one co-worker was expected to work on flood safety. As is known, a flood risk reduction plan is also in preparation, which is expected to be adopted by the end of the year and will contain the necessary measures to ensure flood safety in 61 major flood areas. The gross estimate of the necessary resources for them is €600 million. We will therefore support any debate that is consistent with this orientation in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u151	The word is given by the Group of the United Left for her by Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u152	Thank you so much for saying that. In the United Left, we will support the proposed conclusions in the audit report on the effectiveness of the use of European flood protection funds. But in this particular area, we are faced with a school case, which means too little and what it means too late. I will not cite the enormous numbers associated with the damage caused by the flood quite deliberately. When the threat to human life and property is so elementary, the numbers fade compared to the grief caused. Unfortunately, affected citizens know damn well what a blind spot of flood safety means. This is also very well known by local communities, which often face the situation alone, as they know and know best. For illustration we can only walk through the summary of the audit report. This is already quite scary enough and if I summarize some of the formulations: the Ministry, when preparing the operational programme, did not have the software and professional basis, but somehow the operational programme was able to prepare them, even if it did not have any basis. Flood areas have not been systematically identified and evaluated in terms of harmful potential, but it is said that flood safety was somehow ensured – how, by what key? A number of local investments were quickly confused, which by chance had already produced documentation or worse if I quote from the report: "The Agency for the Water Monitoring Project in Work relating to Flood Safety did not present data on the capacity of the existing system and the capacity of the system after the project was implemented, which made it impossible for the Court of Auditors to provide an assessment of the material efficiency of the use of funds." That is why we have done exactly what we have done, how we know that we have achieved our goals, as far as we have ever set those goals — all of this remains unknown. With the preparation of the content of two of the three projects, the Ministry started in 2010, three years after the programme was launched, and they were finalized and confirmed in 2012 and 2013, the last or the last year before the programme, which had already started five years or six years earlier. Since the Ministry has not produced studies, some measures are not implemented in areas of significant flood impact, it is said that flood safety funds were used in areas which are not clearly threatened by flood or are not a priority. The Ministry has not prepared organisational and investment documentation and I can only stay here quite dismayed without comment. And a view of the future. Here, too, we can rely on the audit report again, but here is enough for us to quote: "The preparation of projects for the new 2014-2020 programming period has not been significantly more effective." Only 22,5 % of the resources available to reduce water damage were used for the i peak, and the poor four-fifths of the funds remained unused. To remedy the future in any way, we must first ask ourselves why this shameful debacle has occurred. We can immediately eliminate the world’s view, since the matter has taken on all political colours, from the right to the transition left. In the illustration we are just walking through the list of competent ministers: Janez Podobnik, the first Janševa government – SLS, Karl Erjavec, Pahorjeva government – Desus, Roko Žarnić, also the Pahorje government and also Desus, Franc Bogovič, the second Janševa government – SLS and Dejan Židan, the government of Alenka Bratušek – SD. And if we eliminate the minimum ideological differences between political actors, there is only one thing left: incompetence. Not the lead of a false left, not the direction of the right, but the leadership of a naked incompetence. Of course, there is a reason why governments and political parties have hidden this incompetence and assisted it – a partial human resources interest to remain in power, regardless of the price. Who cares about flood safety? Of course, the citizens and their assets have been drawn up briefly and, as it appears, will remain so in the future. Two of the ministers responsible for the position are still sitting today; Desusov Karl Erjavec and Dejan Židan, leader of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u153	The text is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, for which Mr Jernej Vrtovec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u154	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Mr President! Last year alone, the floods in Slovenia hit the individual municipalities of our country twice. Large material damage was caused, namely on residential facilities, transport and water infrastructure and, of course, on agricultural areas. Even human lives were not exempt. Sanitation always requires a high tax, millions of dollars and a time gap to eliminate all consequences. The following comparative data show that the number of flood events in Europe is increasing from year to year. From 1950 to 1979, there were as many as 2 thousand 50. Between 1980 and 2009, three times that. The most flooding was in Poland, followed by Slovenia, then Bulgaria, Spain, Slovakia, Croatia and Austria. Therefore, data show that in Slovenia the number of exceptional flood events is increasing. And the fact that we are in second place in Europe is, of course, alarming. The fact is, then, that nature itself will not take care of any minor danger, we will have to do so ourselves with a responsible attitude toward our conduct. For all the forecasts indicate that the consequences of the failure to act so far, or the search for partial solutions in this area, will require more cuts to the state budget and to the budgets of local communities in each more abundant rain. What has our country done in recent years to protect against floods? How successful has it been in drawing on the European funds available to reduce the harmful effects of floodwaters? It is a fact that bulkheads, bulkheads and unloaders are in poor condition and that in order to maintain the current level of safety and to reduce the threat of floods due to global changes, additional bulkheads must be built and the embankments restored. In Slovenia we have almost 15,000 water infrastructure facilities, of which more than 30 high water reservoirs, we have 15,000 kilometres of watercourses, and the facilities are mostly over 40 years old. The retention of Slovenia's watercourses would require €20 million annually, but unfortunately, we only spend between €6 million and €8 million per year. In addition, they should build 5 to 10 million new investments this year, as the flood damage this year was on average EUR 100 million. The Court's findings that in the previous financial perspective 2007-2013, only EUR 16.7 million of the total of the EUR 74 million made available by the end of 2004-2013 are of real concern. Given that these funds should only be used by the end of this year, the issue of our success in drawing on European funds is completely overstated. We are therefore again at the point where we are looking for responsibility for such a state of disaster only in the case of external factors. However, the Court of Auditors has made it clear that the reason for this is the failure to prepare projects and the basis for projects when they are included in the operational programme and in the passive approach of the competent ministry in the preparation of projects in the period 2007 to 2010. Once again, Christian Democrats claim that we have passed the exam. In New Slovenia, we continue to wonder whether our country can really afford such irresponsible behaviour, because of negligence or incompetence, for which no one seems to take responsibility. With such a massive use of European funds, everyone in this Chamber should clearly ask who is to blame and what we must do immediately today so that these cases are no longer so exposed or risked in the future. In view of the above, Christian Democrats will support the proposal for a decision on the inefficiency of the use of European means of protection against floods. Moreover, we rightly expect the Government to take the necessary measures without delay to sanction those responsible for the situation. In the last two days, we have listened to her claim that all holders of public functions and others performing responsible work are always punished or called to account on time. So we have, you have all the levers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u155	The SMC Group shall have the floor, Mr Tillen Christmas for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u156	Dear President, distinguished representatives of the Government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The decision on the inefficiencies in the use of European flood protection funds has a broader content, as indicated by its designation. This is to identify the causes of the extremely low exploitation of funding resources from the operational programme of the environmental and transport infrastructure negotiated for the period 2007-2013 in the area of flood protection; to identify the responsibilities of the competent authorities entrusted with the tasks entrusted to them, to take note of the measures to ensure that the operational efficiency gains of those responsible in the final phase and at the opening of the new financial perspective are crucial for both 2015; and to what is the objective of the entire administrative structure responsible for reducing flood risk. So, to take note of the measures taken to reduce flood risk. In the SMC, we believe that the mere entrustment of tasks and the determination of objectives without the creation of a feedback loop of information and measures cannot be ensured by a successful policy. Effective control and continuous focus on improvement are hence the flaws that have been pointed out in the past, not least of nature. The scope of the shortcomings and the possibilities for many improvements was revealed by the Court of Auditors’ report for the period January 2007 to March 2014. This is a package of problems which, due to the chain effects, are also reflected in the delays in the implementation of the new financial perspective for the period 2014-2020. The audit report itself understands as a new opportunity for the competent ministry and the Environment Agency to take due account of the problems identified and to enable one of the key elements of reducing flood risk to become what it aims to: an effective source of funding for good anti-floating projects. However, resources can only be effective if they are also used at the same time thoughtfully. The combination of data on the frequency or level of flood risk, the vulnerability of the area and the proven harmful potential must demonstrate a clear level of threat to all areas which, due to specific relief and water-related data, covers as much as 10% of Slovenia's surface. A holistic approach is therefore also one of the keys to making investments where necessary first and to effectively address the problems of flood action across the boundaries of individual municipalities or regions. Finally, the consciousness of which we are also advocates in the SMC is awakened, that nature must also leave its space. Areas of silencing lakes, medium and lower streams of river, swamp and so on, are areas which, when managed reasonably, can also offer the possibility of retaining water at high water levels, not just a melioration, drying and exploitation range. Thus, damage to crops, property, infrastructure due to business failures and damage to and loss of life and to the psychological damage left behind by floods will be minimised. The Court of Auditors' comprehensive report gives the newly appointed Minister additional support to deal with the allegations and to take measures that will allow the opportunities from the new financial perspective to be transformed from paper to real as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u157	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u158	Dear President, representatives of the government, distinguished colleague, colleagues! The National Programme for Protection against Natural and Other Disasters states that floods in Slovenia threaten about 15% of Slovenia's surface. In an area where catastrophic floods are possible, there is a good quarter of the population of Slovenia. The damage from year to year is increasing, with more than 40% of the damage caused by natural disasters. In the last 100 years, there have been 22 major floods in Slovenia, of which 6 have covered most of Slovenia. The overall damage to major floods in Slovenia has been estimated at around €1.5 billion since 1990. For the period 2007 to 2012, damage to water infrastructure is estimated at EUR 424 million. In the same period, € 174 million was paid out of the State budget. The Court of Auditors found that, during the 2007-2013 programming period, Slovenia had available €74 million of European flood protection funds and received only €16.7 million from the European budget by the end of 2013. As a result of the slow use of funds, flood safety was worse than it could have been. The main problem is the poor preparedness of projects, the Court of Auditors argues, but all of these facilities must first be placed in a space, which is rakrana in the preparation of all infrastructure and environmental projects, because we know that this takes years, sometimes more than ten years, and this is the basis for the preparation of projects. The next problem is then the acquisition of land, which for a long time the state did not have the right law to obtain land for the public benefit. Then, finally, a law was adopted to obtain land for public benefit by decommissioning for line projects of State importance, while for projects of municipal interest, even in the public interest, there is not yet a suitable law. Here I think there is a big problem, we also have a few projects in the area of the above Savinja, these are dry retainers that have been preparing, putting into space for decades, without asking living people there, owners, what these retainers will mean or affect their agricultural lands with which they are living. The Court of Auditors also notes that projects are no better prepared or projects are no longer prepared to draw funds from the new financial perspective 2014-2020. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we fear that we will face the same problems at the end of this financial perspective, so that we will spend the last two years hunting for time to draw on these funds. We are already in the second year of the new financial perspective, but there is no activity in the preparation of projects to draw funds from this financial perspective. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will also support and appeal the conclusions drawn up by the Commission, with this addition, that these thirty days should apply from the date of adoption of this Decision, so that there is no misunderstanding later. We hope that this month the government or the competent ministry will draw up a report or that this decision of the National Assembly will be an incentive or a requirement for [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] The Ministry's going to start and do more on these projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u159	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs. Marija Antonija Kovacič is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u160	Dear President, all of you, good-bye! In mid-January this year, the members of the Commission of the National Council for the Control of Public Finance, on the basis of the Court of Auditors' audit, found that the country was not effective in drawing on European funds for flood measures. In principle, the Desus Group agrees with this finding, but flood protection is not the only area where the Republic of Slovenia is unsuccessful in drawing on European funds. Despite the efforts of the Environment Ministry, flood protection is still not sufficient. We are of the opinion that before today's debate we should wait for the Ministry of Environment and Space's response report, which will give us answers to most of the questions raised by the Commission's conclusion. We will find out what measures to reduce the flood threat the Ministry has already taken and what further steps it is preparing. We will be able to read the measures relating to the preparation of projects for the new 2014-2020 programming period, and medium- and long-term plans for flood safety measures, changes to place more effectively in space and to reorganise the water sector are also being prepared for the ILO. The resources available have not always been used sufficiently carefully. Under the Operational Programme on Environment and Transport Infrastructure for the 2007-2013 programming period, €66 million was allocated for the purpose of water regulation. All funds are distributed and investments are being developed in areas where flood threats are the largest. The Ministry recognises that the implementation of flood safety projects has indeed taken place later than it would have wanted, not in the search for culprits, but in all its efforts to implement projects to ensure that funds are spent in line with the deadlines foreseen. In its audit, the Court of Auditors concluded, inter alia, that at the beginning of the previous financial perspective, there was no basis for the preparation of projects and that in the first three years of the perspective the Ministry did nothing on these projects. The country has notified three projects for European co-financing with delay, the upgrade of the Beber Water Analysis System and the anti-floating measures in Savinja and Drava. By the end of 2013, 22.5% of the available resources had been used for these three projects. As we were informed at the meeting of the Commission, they are counting on the Ministry to draw 62 of the €77 million available for these projects. The Court of Auditors also drew attention to the inefficiency of the State in the collection of concession fees and water rights that fill the water fund and in the use of funds for regular activities in flood-prone areas. We estimate that one of the key reasons for poor flood safety is that water fund resources are not used for the purpose for which the fund was established to build anti-flood infrastructure. According to the Visionary Act on the terms of the concession for the exploitation of the energy potential of the lower Sava, the bulk of the resources collected from the water fund are intended for the completion of hydroelectric power plants on the lower Sava. Thus, between 2004 and 2014, €294 million was raised in the water fund, with 150 million being diverted to the construction of these projects and 53.5 million unintendedly spent in the past decade. Desus fully agrees with the Court of Auditors' conclusions that there will be a need to reform a number of things – I will end with the fact that the Group of Members will vote against most.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-06-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u161	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the decision and the amendment tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled. 3. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am putting forward a proposal for a decision and an amendment from the SDS Group. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendment will be decided on Monday, 9th, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. 3. 2015, in the context of the votes This concludes this agenda item. Dear citizens, allow me to congratulate you, like Members and Servants of the National Assembly, on the International Women's Day. However, I call on citizens, Members and civil servants of the National Assembly to do everything in our country, and therefore also yours, the power for real equality and gender equality everywhere and every day. I also adjourn the fifth session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed on Monday 9. Three o'clock.
