ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 8th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Tanya Zink, mag. Jana Jenko, Mrs. Irena Grošelj Kosnik until 13.30, mag. Andrej Shircelj and Mr Roberto Battelli. I say hello to everyone who's here! We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, this is Mandating-Voluntary matters. Since no matter has been drawn up by the Mandate-Electorial Commission at the meeting of the National Assembly or since no other matter has been submitted until the beginning of this point, I conclude with the 10th item of the agenda. At the same time, I inform the assembly that I will adapt my leadership and management of this meeting to the fact that we do not have a Vice-President. So take it easy. If there's a breakup, there'll be a break. We're moving to five. At the end of the day, this is the first defensively proposed bill on covert grave wars and the burial of victims. The draft law was tabled by a group of five Members and Members, with the first signed by Mrs Ludmilo Novak. With regard to this bill, the Group of 21 Members and Members, with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed law of Mrs Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! Pieta is a deep respect for all the dead and is the foundation of human civilization. It obliges us to bury the dead, regardless of whose side they fought on, and regardless of their political beliefs. It's a human civilization standard, and it's an expression of its humanity. The Geneva Convention also binds us to this act. According to current data from the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, about 600 hidden graves have been recorded in Slovenia so far, with some data showing that there are approximately 15,000 Slovenian and Slovene remains. All victims have, in accordance with the principles of humanity, the right to memory and to grave. In doing so, we stress that the enforcement of the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the burial of the victims does not constitute the abolition of the abolitionist. The responsibility for investigating these acts and responsibilities shall remain with the investigating, prosecution and judicial authorities. The aim of the proposal is to comprehensively regulate the area of hidden war graves for all victims of the revolution of war and post-war violence, thereby guaranteeing all victims the right to a decent burial, grave or burial ground and to preserve their memory. In Novi Slovenija we are convinced that we need a new law that will provide sufficient legal basis for the further work of registering, detecting, digging, identification, burial, registration in the register of graves and register of cultural heritage, as well as the protection of these. The fact is that the current War Cemetery Act regulates this area flawedly and does not allow for a comprehensive procedure for detecting these graves and is, in individual parts, contrary to other laws. The neighbouring Croatia has also regulated this matter in a special law and has already done so. The advantage of our bill is also in the composition and competence of the government commission to resolve the issues of hidden graves, which until now has been merely the consultative body of the competent ministry. The area of the regulation of war graves, including hidden war graves, created in particular after the end of World War II, is thus legally approaching the regulations of other Member States of the European Union. Dear Members and Members! Again and again, we hear calls to make and bury the victims. Do we hope to take a step forward or are we afraid that we will be punished by our constituents in the elections? We have the opportunity to become all winners and bearers of hope that we can also solve the nation’s most difficult problems with dignity and dignity. More peace in the Slovenian nation is also addressed in the lobby of the National Assembly by 70 caged pigeons of peace. Since some failed attempts at reconciliation have been made, people are unreliable, and malicious crowd prophesies appear again and again, corresponding to the present situation and exploiting it for their own purposes, so people have doubts and mistrust. Are we going to give up and give up because of all the failed attempts?Oh, my God! I am convinced that, despite mistrust, there is always a need to strive for peace and reconciliation, because we owe it to the Slovenian homeland and the Slovenian people. The truth liberates, and the truth alone has lasting value, so let us help her to speak. Let us help the dead to get their graves and live so that they can mourn. Let all of us remember these graves and remind us that these horrors would not be repeated. This will help both ourselves and the Slovenian people. Your Honor! So before us is the law that, so we Christian Democrats are confident, has given many of the victims of these beatings the hope that their domestics will be buried as human dignity dictates. That's what we have to do. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] as a nation and as a country that builds its future from the experience of the past. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u3	For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the Minister for Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities of Dr Anji Kopač Mrak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u4	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! The Group of Members and Members, with the first signed by Mrs Ludmilo Novak, is on 9. 4. 2015 To the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia submitted for consideration and adoption a proposal for a law on hidden war graves and burial of victims. According to the proposal, the aim of the bill is to comprehensively regulate the area of hidden war graves for all victims of war and post-war violence, thereby guaranteeing all fallen persons the right to a decent burial, to mark the grave or grave and to remember it. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia notes, in relation to the above, that the area of war graves, as well as the hidden war graves, according to the existing law, the designated graves of war victims, after war-torn persons are legally governed by the applicable war grave law. The law already governs the types of military graves, the area of war graves, the jurisdiction of the state, the scope of protection, the management and management of military graves, the register of war graves, the protection regime, the excavation or excavation process, the newly discovered war graves and financial liabilities. Under the current law, the competent ministry carries out procedures for the organisation of war graves, including hidden war graves. Thus, 600 hidden military graves, 185 probes, 60 digs, and other activities related to the protection of military graves have already been carried out. On the basis of the above, the competent ministry has already arranged a secret cemetery in the Kočev Rog area in recent years, completed the amount of remains from the karst pits, built the Teharje Memorial Park, the cemetery in Maribor and Škofja Loka. Further activities are currently under way with regard to the arrangement of the memorial park and war graves in the area of Kamnika Bistrica, activities related to the arrangement of the Barbara-rov war cemetery in the Hudi Cave and activities related to the construction of the monument for all war victims. There are also activities related to the establishment of a new information base to keep records of hidden war graves and registers of war graves. In spite of this, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers that the proposed law, which has been submitted, should be examined in terms of a system-wide legal aspect, whether it would be better if the objectives and purposes of the proposed law were regulated by amending the already existing law on war graves. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia understands and supports the efforts of the proposed law that all victims of war and post-war violence in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia must be granted a decent burial and thus ensure the right to a decent burial for all victims, but the question is how to achieve this in the best possible way. With this opinion, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not want to open up to those who promote ideological fighting and create new divisions. The purpose of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is to re-establish Slovenia, its citizens and its inhabitants as part of an open, fair, solidarity, fair and progressive society. The final aim of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is to join forces and find the best possible solution to all the stakeholders who are seeking to solve the decent burial of all victims of post-war, war and post-war violence. Today we take the debate primarily as an opportunity to listen to different arguments and together we find the best possible solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u5	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Eva Irgl.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! After the end of World War II, the mass seas of military prisoners and civilians were carried out in the territory of Slovenia. Among them were a large number of women and children. Some today justify this by natural law and others by malicious interpretation of the international conventions in force at that time. Therefore, the words made by Mr Tit Turnšek, President of the Association of Fighters for the values of NOB, that it is the law of war, that the traitors are killed, and that the opponents of the ideology of the communist revolution and their family are left without a word. Even if we know that in Ormož, for example, 39 children and between the ages of several months and five years of age were left to die by wartime Communist authorities. A man who lets a child suffer to the death is a man of man. And that is exactly the kind of man who has created a totalitarian ideology, which we are still unable to condemn in a uniform manner, both legally and morally, and to disqualify. And of course, in this place alone, the question arises — were these children also traitors? We also know that the honor and courage of every soldier is not measured by how many prisoners of war and civilians he has liquidated. In September 2013, a monument was erected for these children at the Armenian cemetery. Their names were read by Armenian children at the ceremony. The numerous plagues that occurred in Slovenia left over 600 mass seas behind, indicating the magnitude of the burden and the tragedy that was and is still caused by the Slovenian people. To all, in particular, young generations, including those who uncritically idolize Titus and the times of that time, namely that totalitarian regime, we must make it clear that, regardless of the reasons and regardless of the causes, such a murder for crime applies in every civilized and democratic world. Let me remind you of Srebrenica, the Armenian genocide, the katian massacre, the Holocaust, the mass slaughter of members of the people of Herero, the Ukrainian holodomor, or famine. One of the definitions of genocide is this: "The genocide in general refers to the mass killing of a large number of people who are not a military action against the armed forces of an openly recognized enemy, in circumstances where victims are essentially powerless and unable to defend themselves." End of quote. The responsible and sincere condemnation of genocide and crimes against humanity must not be a conviction from a moral point of view alone, but must be the consciousness and commitment of every civilized nation not to repeat genocide. After World War II, Slovenia was a part of the Communist countries, where genocide was legally legitimized. If we look through history, we can see that, for example, there was no condemnation at the right time of the holodomora, famine, just as the war seas were not condemned on our soil at the right time, which means that if the mistakes of history are not recognized and not condemned, they are likely to happen again, as we have witnessed at the time of the collapse of the SFRY. Those who gave orders of slaughter and those who carried out these orders bear responsibility for the killing on Slovenian soil. No one has ever been responsible for this crime, even though the police, especially through a criminal act called Conciliation, have issued important findings in their report, which led to at least one name – the name Mitje Ribičič, then Assistant to Chief Ozna. However, there was no further process or proceedings by the prosecution and the investigating judge, in spite of a well-founded criminal charge, by the honourable colleagues and colleagues. The document to Major Mitje's vote was evidence that did not convince our prosecution. There is no doubt that the procedure was deliberately halted. However, they could not even stop themselves from doing so because they never even started. So a crime without criminals took place on Slovenian soil. And the victims of this crime have been denied the right to dignity and grave for 70 years. And who is the one who has shared the bones for 70 years, as Dr. John Stanovnik recently said, so that many people are denied the right to the grave and the right to memory only on the basis of ideological criteria? In 1996, an investigative commission was established in the National Assembly to investigate post-war massacres. She was led by Dr. Jože Pučnik. On the basis of the testimonies, the Commission found, inter alia, that the Communist Party imposed liquidations, that transports to the seaports were organised, that Ozna was the one who, with the help of Knoj, carried out liquidations and that the victim procedure was brutal after the testimony of the witnesses. The killing of civilians, including children and women, as many as possible and as vividly as possible testifies to the complex feminine hairs of the Huda Cave, carried out by the communist authorities, whose heirs still have the greatest influence on all systems and subsystems in the country, has taken place in various ways. According to historians, this is based on lists on which people were classified by group as a particular method of liquidation. Estimates of the number of killed are different, but the fact remains, irrefutable, bitter and sad that Slovenia is deceived by the mortal remains of people who have been victims of revolutionary violence and whose right to grave is still not implemented. Access to the seas was prohibited, although there was a lot of chatter about it and even though the surrounding people quietly knew what was in the ground. After independence, things changed a little bit, but not completely. There are still areas, such as in the Idrian-Church region, and elsewhere that are not explored or explored enough, even though in the depths of the forests they hide human guests who have been buried there by the revolutionary communist authorities and hoped never to be discovered. However, such acts have long shadows. One day they're all over the plan, and then they can't be stopped. What message about our value system will we leave to the explorers if we do not reach the civilisation standard of a burial that was self-evident in ancient Greece? The murder that took place left a great wound in the nation, which had to be kept silent for many years. And there's still a lot of silence today. So those who are afraid because the terror on the part of the Communist Party is too great, as those who know what happened, who are even responsible for what happened, do not want to talk, even though they should. Years ago, the European Parliament adopted a resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism, which states, inter alia, that if Europe wants to be united, it must be able to create a unified view of its history that the Member States of the European Union must carry out an in-depth debate on the crimes of both Nazism and fascism and communism. It's our common heritage. And I quote: "...the ultimate objective of the disclosure and assessment of crimes committed by totalitarian regimes, including communism, reconciliation, which can only be achieved through the recognition of responsibility and the request for forgiveness". So today we are not talking about any ideological issues, but we are talking about issues of shared responsibility, issues of human dignity, what is ethical, what is right and what is right. We are talking about the right to grave, which is an inalienable right, we are talking about the inviolability of human life, which is well explained in the commentary to Article 17 of the Constitution of Slovenia. And we're talking about the basic civilizational standards that every nation makes civilisation and separates it from barbarism. So, once again, we talk about human dignity, that we do not even post-mortemly label it with an ideological submenu, and in particular we do not abuse it for daily political purposes. And here's the key to everything. For a civilized nation does not need any law to bury its dead. A civilized nation knows what's right and does what's right. Not because that's what we call his marriage, but because we call him conscience. The state must first be able to condemn the painful historical experience in a uniform way, be able to condemn the communist regime and the post-war revolution, by condemning all representatives of the people within their constitutional powers. This is under any formal act. Until the whole policy and all of us sitting here today do so, then we cannot do so by law. It is, to correct the historical injustice that has occurred to a certain part of the nation, and to bury their dead without ever being ideologically labeled. In particular, this cannot be achieved if the law they have before them is conceptually derived from the now existing War Cemetery Act, where the origins and spirit of the law are not based on the basis of justice and equal treatment of the dignity of the victims and their relatives. The Left will have to look at the issue of condemning communism as a totalitarian system in the light of purely basic civilisation standards, but not by constantly undermining the right-centre policy to want, with such convictions and with such debates, the rehabilitation of collaboration and some kind of revision of history. Respect for the personal dignity of the murderers is not a rehabilitation of collaboration and not a revision of history, but an ethical conduct of a civilized nation, which also carries a historical memory. The condemnation of communism and the communist revolution is a prerequisite, the basis for a sincere solution to the issue of postwar seas. Until then, even more popularism can be at the expense of the victims, especially if we know that those who are most vitally connected to the postwar killing, i.e. with their victims, are extremely reserved for the law we are talking about today. What, then, is the solution to this question if you ignore it? As President of the Commission for Petitions and for Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, I have been visiting individuals investigating the post-war killing for a long time as a Member of Parliament, and relatives of victims who do not know for 70 years after the crime where the remains of their loved ones are. I remember, among other things, a visit years ago to a group of Survival Powers, where I spoke to relatives of victims who wanted to know only where their loved ones were lying before they died. And here at this point, we are not even talking about the funeral, but only about the place where these people, their relatives, were buried — so that they could light a candle in this place and say good-bye to them. They have hope, and they are grateful that we also deal with this, those who are not directly linked to these criminal events, but we are aware of the responsibility to correct the injustice. I won't forget, he's clutching the hands of these people who've been through a single request: don't give up and insist. After the story, I know the story when a person who at first did not show any feelings about these issues completely broke when they showed her the location where his neighbor was murdered. We held a debate on understanding the situation in Slovenia in the 20th century on the Commission for Petitions and on human rights and equal opportunities. Even as the protagonists of the revolution for the realization of ideology or for the establishment of the regime had to resort to extreme violence, which ended in the post-war killing and more than 600 mass graves. Unfortunately, however, it did not seem worth coming to the meeting to the members of the coalition. And how, then, should we trust and trust those who do not hope to attend a meeting where we are talking about a war seas that do not hope to express themselves to this content when, together with the Prime Minister, they are talking about solving the question of burial, especially if there is no funding for such an action in the budget. Nor did anyone from the prosecution attend the meeting to explain to us what was done on their part to detect and process the perpetrators of this genocide, which international law, along with war crime and crimes against humanity, defines as the worst crime at all and an act that is not obsolete. Crimes against humanity are largely directed against a particular group. In this case, those who had violently taken power after the war seemed disturbed. Among them were pregnant women and children. And any action to prosecute those responsible for the crime is not revenge, not revenge, not political accounting. In Germany, there is now a trial against 93-year-old Oscar Groening, an accountant in Auschwitz for alleged co-operation with the killing of Jews. First of all, we must find out whether, as a country, we are even prepared to condemn the crime that has led Slovenia to be deceived by the killings of the postwar sea. For the dead to be buried, there is no need for marriage, not even a new marriage. Thus, the proposal for such a law is only a gesture of likeness in every civilized country. In any non-civilised country, it does not matter whether it is accepted or not, as it will not be implemented anyway. Even under the existing War Cemetery Act, despite the shortcomings of this law, it is possible to bury victims from hidden seas. The registration allows for the existing Article 13 of the War Cemetery Act, a burial or burial process, which began recently in Kamnika Bistrica, where Montenegrin troops were killed. It was enough for Minister Anja Kopač Dark to grant this sea the status of a military cemetery. And now we ask ourselves whether we would need a new law if, for example, we discovered today a mass grave of Nazi or fascist crimes. The answer is no. And that's right. Apparently, in this part of the book, Stanovnik was right when he said that we share bones today, but we share them based on the already surviving ideologies in Europe. The bill is thus unnecessary in terms of ensuring a decent burial of victims in more than 600 hidden killing sites in the Republic of Slovenia and does not serve to ensure respect for the dignity of the murdered, but could serve to ensure prestige on this sensitive subject where the entire Slovenian public should be united and their policy should be an example. Slovenian politics is regarded as a right-wing advocate of condemning crimes on all sides and burying the dead on all sides. This means condemning fascist, Nazi, and Communist crimes and burying their victims. The left hand is said to condemn crimes only by fascism and Nazism. But the victims of communism are always subject to relativisation. They obviously didn't have to be buried in the '70s. However, the burial cannot simply be a mark of a murder in nature. A burial is an act of dignity in which the relatives and representatives of the victims must cooperate, but they do not agree with or hold back from the law. The victims of revolutionary violence must be buried as victims of revolutionary violence, otherwise the act of burial is not worthy of the title of burial and may also be a mockery of the dignity of these victims. The existing War Cemetery Act is inadequate in terms of respect for the dignity of victims of revolutionary violence. The bill before us, however, only attempts to technically upgrade it because it does not invalidate or amend it in any way. It therefore stems from exactly the same starting points, which caused both the Slovenian Democratic Party and Nova Slovenija to obstruct the adoption of the current law in 2003. We remain in principle in the Slovenian Democratic Party today and do not move away from clear positions in respect of the dignity of the victims, regardless of whether they were victims of fascist, Nazi or communist violence and ideology. Let me remind you that when Novo Slovenija led the late Dr. Andrej Bajuk, the starting point for the then obstruction of New Slovenia, as has already been said, was that the Slovenian Democratic Party, at the time, obstructed the adoption of the law, it is clear that there must be agreement on this subject, that the right policy as a whole should not be offensive to the slain people and their relatives, that political capital should not be forged on this issue, that the will of the relatives must be respected, that the markings must be appropriate in the graves, meaning that they must take into account the wishes of the relatives, even when talking about the writing on the monument. The fiveth burial is important not only now but also for our future, it must be an upright act and be based on facts, not on manipulation. Dr. Andrej Bajuk also understood that, I quote, "...with laws, of course, it is not possible to replace spiritual acts such as national reconciliation, but without spiritual freedom and openness of life, it is impossible to write and adopt righteous laws." End of quote. The law has only technical provisions, while the content does not in the right way touch or save it. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we welcome any efforts made by Nova Slovenija in this area to address the issue of burial after the war of the slain. However, the starting points must be such as to safeguard the dignity of the victims and their relatives and not to allow false interpretations of history. The law must also clearly contain a conviction of post-war revolutionary violence, a conviction of the perpetrators, which the law does not bring, even though it relates to resolutions and conventions. The law we have before us builds on the definition of the 2003 War Cemetery. The definition of a war cemetery was inappropriate at the time and inappropriate today. That is also why our Group of Members and Members of the NSI have since obstructed the adoption of the law. Let me explain why the term "war cemetery" in our opinion is controversial in at least two respects. First of all, it's not a cemetery. This is a crime scene. In these places, liquidations were carried out. It wasn't a funeral, so we can't call it a cemetery. Using the term grave means the victims already have their graves, they're already buried. Secondly, the victims were not executed either, for the execution means the taking of life on some legal basis. It was murder because there was no legal basis, no domestic, no foreign, no minimum procedures for determining guilt. The conventions prohibited this. They were exterminated on the basis of an ideological criterion. The term 'complete decent burial', which is enshrined in the law, can also mean the degradation of human dignity, as it is proposed that it merely means the marking of a newly discovered war cemetery in nature so that it can be identified. If the equality and dignity of the victims of all totalitarianism, their relatives and descendants are truly advocated, they must also be given equal standards for burial. Imagine that the worthy burial of the Srebrenica victims would be carried out only by marking the site in nature, which would then only be declared a cemetery. We cannot imagine that, so we cannot agree to such a marriage. Persistence in definitions and concepts, which have also been disputed for law-makers since 2003, can also mean reviewing historical facts, since most of the victims during the war, especially after the war, were not killed by civilians at all because of the cause of war, but because of the revolution, because of the violent takeover of power. Adherence to such definitions of so-called war victims would mean that civilian victims and victims of the revolution are identified as war victims and thus somehow justify their mass killings in terms of the war situation. It wasn't a war situation! It wasn't a war situation! Come in. The implementation of the proposed law will depend on the Commission, which will be appointed by the Government, so it will be politically appointed and will have full discretion as to whether or not the grave can be registered. So it will depend on the political decision, as it has been so far, how quickly and whether the objective of the law will be achieved. But what have these political decisions been like in the last 70 years? John Oman said that the law could only be opposed for political, ideological or prestigious reasons. Of course, it can also be said that the law can only be proposed for political, ideological or prestigious reasons. We are detained in the Slovenian Democratic Party not for political, ideological or prestigious reasons, but for principled reasons, as in 2003. The Slovenian Democratic Party does not change its opinion overnight, especially on issues that will also affect future generations and on the value of the system we will leave to our stakeholders. We will not oppose the SDS law because we welcome the reopening of the debate on the moral debt that we all have together to the victims of revolutionary violence, and we believe that the aim of the proposaler is well-intentioned. However, since the law in the form before us does not solve the underlying issues previously raised and remains within the same substantive framework as the 2003 law, there is no reason for us to act this time unintentionally and irresponsibly. Especially in the light of the fact that the law is also restricted by the representatives of those to whom the law is primarily intended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u7	The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Uroš Prikl has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u8	Dear President, distinguished Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to give you a brief overview of the position of the Desus Group on the draft law on hidden military graves and the burial of victims. Since the proposals, colleagues in Nova Slovenija presented the first draft of the law on a decent burial, we have been detained in the Desus Group and I must say that our position, despite the fact that the proposal has been corrected and changed the name of the law, has not changed significantly. Let me explain. Our main concerns remain. First time. The current War Cemetery Act regulates all that is proposed in the new law, so we are concerned about the duplication of legislation and the possible confusion that the new law can cause, as certain duties and solutions are, as is said, disguised. Another time. The opinion of the RS Government is also very reserved. In addition, it is a legally poor proposal for a law, since at least 18 articles of the proposed regulation should be amended if the law came into another reading. These are all the articles. Then what's the point of all this? At the same time, experience teaches us that the law, which is largely an amendment, does not provide a good road map for its effective implementation in practice as well. Third time. The War Cemeteries Act, which was adopted in 2003, is currently being amended in 2009. We are confident that with any appropriate amendments we can improve the existing law that defines the subject of war graves. More. We are also convinced that the law in force on war graves actually regulates everything that is the basis of the new law, but that it must be implemented. A similar opinion is shared by a very broad civil and social public. The fact is that the War Cemetery Act is being implemented slowly and imperfectly. It is the same with the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage, even in the work that speaks of war graves as an archaeological and memory heritage, for which there is no serious or valid excuse. Fourth time. In view of all of this, there is no need, but really no need to adopt such rules, which result in additional financial obligations, which in the assessment of the financial consequences of the applicant amount to between EUR 500 000 and EUR 700 000 per annum. In order not to be misunderstood here, financial means, one or the other, must by no means be and cannot be an excuse for a silent attitude toward all the dead. At the same time, in the DeSUS Group, we find that the key problem in classifying sites from the grave records is the register itself. The procedures during the registration are too long, which, in our opinion, is the result of long-term procedures themselves, complex and often bureaucratic, as well as the lack of resources and the very mode of work and organisation. It will be necessary to speed things up substantially here. We certainly do not want such and similar laws to open or deepen ideological divisions. Even less so, when marking the 70-year-old victory over nazifascism, we want to raise the issue of the rehabilitation of quizzling, which is unacceptable, and on such issues we do not allow national liberation fighting to be underestimated, as one of the brightest periods in the history of the Slovenian people. I repeat, the fifth attitude towards all the dead, including their worthy burial, is one of the key objectives of the government, which I am sure will also be realized. In doing so, I would also like to express my joy at the fact that it is practical before the construction of the monument to the victims of all wars, for which many of us have been working a long time ago. Colleagues and colleagues! In doing so, the Government and the competent institutions shall call on them to adopt a concrete and binding operational plan for the management of war graves in order to provide sufficient financial resources in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia to properly organise and, where appropriate, strengthen the service for war graves, which will have adequate and sufficient powers to do its work. It is necessary to establish clear boundaries and competences between the Ministry of War Cemetery Service and the Commission of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to address the issues of hidden graves. It is necessary to check how the municipalities carry out the tasks relating to war graves and the protection of monuments and memorials and to take appropriate measures. It must be ensured that the Institute for Recent History will be able to complete the register and analysis of Slovenian deaths in World War II. It is necessary to commit all competent authorities and services to carry out their tasks in the field of war graves with priority, efficiency and full responsibility and to inform the National Assembly accordingly and continuously. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! I sincerely hope that at this point it is not a matter of gathering political points at the expense of sad human destiny and personal tragedies. There is no need to adopt a new law, a concrete action plan, possibly amendments, to properly organise work, to remove all administrative obstacles and procedures that have repeatedly plagued work in this area, and, above all, to bow down and express clearly the will to achieve common objectives. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! In the Desus Group, we will continue to strive to achieve a universally respectful and unconditional, I repeat a unconditional, pitiful attitude towards all the dead, including the establishment of a central monument for the victims of all wars. In doing so, we will support solutions that will not cause separation but that will connect us. We have shown Slovenians and Slovenians many times in our past that we know and that we can step together so that we are able to achieve unity. And that's when we were the strongest. However, this time we will not support this bill in any way because of what we have said. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u9	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mrs Marija Bachič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u10	Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! Social Democrats The draft law on hidden war graves and burial of victims, submitted by a group of Members and Members, with the first signed Ludmila Novak, submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, will not be supported. We are convinced that the applicable War Cemetery Act at systemic level deals with all the fundamental issues raised by the applicants as subject of this law. Nor do social democrats accept the thesis and frequent hints that the current War Cemetery Act is not being implemented and that, in particular, in the area of hidden war graves, nothing has been done since the law was enacted that is far from the truth. If we want to speak objectively and reliably about this proposal for a law before us today, it is therefore essential that we shed some light on the events of past mandates in the handling and adoption of so-called war laws, to which this bill certainly also belongs. The theme of war laws is to deal with various issues of half-lived history concerning the time of World War II and the time after the end of World War II. Whether we want it or not, the fact remains that there are always, in particular, those issues that we perceive in different ways after the 1970s, and we have different feelings for them, because we take them differently and value them. And from here, unfortunately, we are only one step away from this, which is often referred to as an ideological struggle and a new division among people, which I believe no one wants between us. This is highlighted by the Social Democrats because, from the experience of the previous mandates of the National Assembly, we know that, as a rule, the debate on the open issues of past history has been treated differently than we do today. It was coordinated talks with representatives of all parliamentary political parties, as well as representatives of veteran and patriotic organisations, which sought to reach as wide a consensus as possible on a number of sensitive issues, which would push the way towards common objectives that we understand as mutual respect, reconciliation, a five-way relationship with the dead and reconciliation. We then understood, as we understand today, that these issues cannot and must not be in the field of political prestige and dominance of one party or parliamentary group, if we are truly bona fide and we want to resolve these issues in a way that will not leave anyone with bitter taste and will dispel everyone's minimum doubts as to the correctness and fairness of common decisions. Some ten years ago, when the competent Minister Drobnic of the political party from which the billers come from today prepared drafts of war laws, awareness prevailed among the political parties of today that it did not matter how to deal with such issues. We social democrats have always worked hard to do this. Although considerable time and effort have been put into discussing and coordinating legal solutions, the 2004-2008 mandate has failed to achieve sufficient harmonisation and the legislative process on war laws has not continued. However, the effort and search for solutions to these laws continued in the mandate when we led the government coalition by the Social Democrats and in 2009 a very important amendment to the War Cemetery Act was adopted, which was already prepared by Minister Drobnič in the basic solutions. The law was coordinated in the widest possible political round, as it was also supported by the opposition Slovenian People's Party in addition to the four left-wing government parties. According to our belief, the novel of the War Cemetery Act has brought important solutions that we do not yet know today or that we do not want to properly evaluate, namely, the novel predicted that in Ljubljana a monument will be erected to all victims of war and to wars related to the victims in Slovenia with the dedicating inscription of Oton Župančič, the Homeland is one, given to all of us, and one life and one death. She predicted that for the remains of persons who would not have a separate cemetery or grave, the central tomb would be placed in the Teharje Memorial Park area. It also envisioned different texts of the consecrated nature at the graves, where the graves of civilian victims of war and after the war of the dead were written: Victims of war and revolutionary violence, Republic of Slovenia. It is envisaged that the family may be allowed to transfer the remains of the deceased to another grave at the same or another cemetery. It provided for more precise provisions on the recording of military graves and clarified the legal basis for the protection of the military graves of the Republic of Slovenia abroad, which are regulated by interstate agreements or arrangements. It is therefore not possible to speak honestly today about the fact that nothing has been done in the area of the editing and detection of hidden war graves. In its opinion, the government has made very clear what activities it has already carried out in the past concerning the hidden war sites. Thus, 600 hidden military graves, 185 probes, 60 burials and excavations were carried out. In recent years, the government has arranged a hidden war cemetery in the Kočevský Rog area, the amount of remains from the karst plains was built, the Teharje Memorial Park, a built skeleton in Maribor and Škofja Loka. Other editing activities are also taking place at various sites of war graves and activities to build a monument to all victims of war in Ljubljana. Finally, activities are under way to establish a new information base to keep records of hidden war graves and registers of war graves. It is true that the scope of the activity in this area depends primarily on the ability to finance or on the annual amount of budgetary resources allocated to the regulation of war graves, particularly during public financial savings in all areas. There is probably no way to deny that more could be done in this area in recent years. However, this fact does not give no one the right to deceive by arguing that the State has done nothing in this area. As it is said, the Social Democrats do not share the view that a special law must be adopted to better and better regulate hidden war graves. The applicants themselves in the introduction of the legislative proposal state that this area is governed by the War Cemetery Act, which is being implemented too slowly after them, stressing that the implementation of the law depends largely on the political will of each government to resolve this area, including the provision of funds for this purpose. Therefore, the applicants themselves find that, in their view, in the current legislation, there is not so much a problem in the regulation itself as they consider a problem in the absence of political will and budgetary money. So why a special marriage? The applicants further point out that, in the case of hidden graves, the entry of such graves into the register is impervious, but this cannot be a valid reason for a specific law. We have not received a convincing answer to this question to this day, so we do not see any serious argument as to why a specific special law, full of such provisions, would be adopted as a specific type of war grave, which by their very nature fall within the law and not into law. We are confident that by adopting such a law, we would introduce too much legal confusion, and that one category of graves would be excluded from the system regime, as we know today in the War Cemetery Act. Social Democrats also discussed this proposal for a law on hidden war graves and the burial of victims with representatives of the Union of National Liberation Fighters, who in the past have always actively cooperated in the search for common solutions when so-called war laws were on the agenda. At this point, we share the view that this law is neither appropriate nor necessary in its content, since we have this area quite well regulated in the War Cemetery Act. We also share the view that in this area something should be improved in particular in the more effective implementation of the applicable law. Social Democrats are not opposed to a decent burial and reconciliation, but this is not linked to the question of whether or not we support this bill. Our reservation stems from the belief that, with regard to the amendment of the existing law, there has not been a broader discussion of all stakeholders, and thus we do not have the views of all stakeholders, nor do we have convincing substantive explanations from the proposer as to what is preventing or impeding the implementation of the law, if we are talking only about its content and if we leave the country with the capacity to provide higher budgetary resources. On the basis of all this, we will therefore vote against the conclusion that the proposal for a law on hidden war graves and burial of victims is suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u11	The text is given by the Joint Left Group, Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u12	Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! Mr President, thank you for saying so. In these days we celebrate 70 years from victory over fascism, 70 years from liberation. Unfortunately, we didn't all celebrate this anniversary. Certainly, though, we did not celebrate the same things. From victory over fascism and national and social liberation, some have gone on to celebrate the end of World War II. We are in a period of intense historical revisionism, entrenching and changing history. This is a process that is taking place all over Europe and very intensively in Slovenia. Changing history is not without consequences in the present. By trying to erase the memory of liberation, socialist and other rebellions, the neoliberal extreme center is trying to consolidate the power of both the left and the modern environment. At the same time, it tries to demonize and defile all those alternatives that do not agree to bloodthirsty capitalism, exploitation and oppression, and the gloominess of all kinds. An attempt to wipe out the rebellion against foreign domination, the resistance to imperialism, is being made to erase the social revolution that put an end to the old oppressive regime of the pre-war kingdom of Yugoslavia. Trying to erase the memory of the construction of a socialist society, trying to erase the warning that a different future is possible. Why this introduction to historical revisionism? Because the proposed Law on Hidden Cemeteries and the Burial of Victims is to a large extent a matter of historical revisionism. The law in force on war graves is sufficient for its purpose and adequately governs this area. For there is an urgent need to separate two dimensions, both personally and politically. Surely any loss of a loved one due to violent death is a serious tragedy for the kinsmen. No military color worn by the deceased can reduce suffering. All the dead deserve a grave. We're all the same in death. But – and this is a key aspect of the words on reconciliation, civilisation principles and a decent burial, which we hear from the politicians of all shades – a personal, intimate dimension should not be misused to politically equalize antifascism and fascism, to equalize partisans and collaborators with the Nazis. The proposed law raises the question of how the state will deal with this today. It is not the task of the State to direct the victims’ relatives and offspring to feel what they should feel when they lose and how they should accept it. The task of the State is to clearly define the political values and consequences of the actions of the parties to the dispute. The antifascist consensus, which once connected the West and the East, which was, despite the great contradictions and conflicts in the bipolar world at least in the grave, the smallest common denominator of the whole world, is tough today. We can see this in relation to history, such as the recent celebration in Moscow, we can see this in Ukraine, where the European Union and the United States of America are shamelessly supporting and openly cooperating with neo-Nazi organisations. Obviously, the West is more likely to abandon antifascism than its political and economic interests in Ukraine. This isn't just about giving up antifascism. Fascism is rising in Europe. In recent years we have been able to monitor the rise of far right parties, from the Golden Dawn in Greece to the National Front in France. The far right is successful because of the European Union's non-democratic nature, as well as its migrant policies, which are responsible for the daily death of immigrants in the Mediterranean and at the borders of Europe's fortress. It succeeds because of austerity measures and the tightening of belts that destroy the social state and the standard of workers, thanks to right-wing measures, which also increasingly take over fascist rhetoric, as it is forced to respond to the rise of extreme right-wing parties. Therefore, maintaining memory and historical truth is a key task today. We can't support the proposal of the Law on Hidden Cemeteries and the Burial of Victims. It opens the door for even higher doses of historical revisionism. But that's not all. This revisionism rises to the level of official actions of the State. It is indicative that the proposed law already referred to in Article 1 of the European Parliament resolution on the equalisation of so-called totalitarian regimes. These resolutions are an excellent example of an attempt to reinterpret history that we cannot possibly agree to and that no one who thinks critically and knows their history can agree to. Two points are most problematic in the bill. Firstly, the establishment of a commission with 9 members, of which 6 so-called experts and 3 members of the Association of Prisoners of Post-war Violence. The Commission would not be subordinated to any ministry, but directly to the Government, but would, inter alia, decide entirely independently on the location and manner of the burial of the victims and coordinate the work of other competent authorities. We can reasonably conclude that such a commission will be strongly inclined to politically rehabilitate collaborators with Nazis and fascists, who were not only tactical and pragmatic collaborators, but before the war in groups such as the one gathered around The Watchtower in the storm or organizations, such as the movement of the Catholic Action, openly expressed the favour of Nazism, anti-Semitism and racial politics. Both the composition of the commission and its powers are inappropriate. Official acts of the State may be attributed and liable only to officials of the State. Secondly, the bill opens up the possibility of setting up monuments to domesticism and collaboration. 11. Article 11 of the bill provides for the establishment of sad markings and the execution of sad celebrations, but it is not specified what characteristics are actually involved. This is a step backwards, given the current law, which clearly states that, I quote, "No designations are allowed to glorify and celebrate belonging or cooperation with the occupying people." End of quote. At the same time, according to the proposal of the law, all graves would be registered in the register of cultural heritage, resulting in certain legal consequences arising from the regime for the protection of cultural heritage, which means an additional symbolic contribution to the normalisation of fascism and cooperation with fascism. In the United Left, we call historical revisionism a clear no. Showing patriotism as a national patriotism, displaying collaboration with Nazism, let us not forget, Slovenian patriots swore to Adolf Hitler personally. They betrayed, killed compatriots, including women and children, and guarded convoys that drove to concentration camps. The equalization of collaboration as an equivalent side to the partisan movement and as one of the two fully legitimate choices in World War II is discarded and even dangerous doing. The official national celebration was dedicated to the end of World War II a few days ago, not to victory over fascism and liberation. It is no wonder, therefore, that the festive speaker, the president of the National Assembly, Dr. Milan Brglez, spoke most of his time about the events before and after the war, rather than about the national liberation fight and the victims of the partisan forces to defeat the German, Italian and Hungarian invaders and their, now innocent, domestic collaborators. By doing this and other actions, such as the boycott of the celebration in Moscow by President Borut Pahor, the State's official representatives distanced themselves from the side that defeated fascism and the oppressive pre-war regime in World War II. Equalizing the one who was on the right side with the one who was on the wrong side is the evaluation of the right thing and the rehabilitation being rejected. At the same time, this is an illustration of where the policy of likeness, mediumness and so-called non-ideology leads to. All three top political representatives in the country, in addition to the two above-mentioned Prime Minister Miro Cerar, are actively contributing to historical revisionism, citing the ideals of ethics, morality and human rights. It is exactly the same as in privatisation, where, if I use the graves of the exact words, for organised robbery and looting, as the recent case of Telekom and the Cinven Fund proves, by means of a deliberate combination of the price that the government has been informed of, but still continues to refer to transparency, ethics and morality. And while we're at the funeral. Under the cover of ethics, and this government will have to bury the development and living standards of people with wild privatisation and bury the antifascist tradition of national liberation with its historic revisionism. Apparently, the President of the National Assembly said that there are only various shades of conservativeism sitting here in Parliament. World War II was the most bloody and devastating military conflict in human history. Although Nazi Germany had already been officially defeated, days and weeks after the victory, many victims throughout Europe were claimed, as British historian Keith Lowe clearly describes in the book The Wild Continent. The proportions and intensity of World War II were such that they had been called off for many years. Postwar violence must be condemned most severely. But also war. But cruel violence is what is common to all wars and what is common to all the belligerent parties. Certainly, however, we must never forget which sides fought in the war and who fought for righteous things, for national and cultural liberation, for social liberation and for fascist occupation. This was a partisan movement that liberated Yugoslavia, which liberated Slovenia. This is a clear historical truth. Historical revisionism, which tries to change this truth, to falsify it, is a valuable and politically dangerous act, so in the United Left we will not support the bill in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u13	The word is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, for which it is mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u14	Dear colleagues and colleagues! I was born 38 years after World War II. I am one of those happy generations that started attending the 1st grade of primary school in Yugoslavia and ended up in independent and independent Slovenia. The independence and independence of Slovenia gave us all great hope, hope for economic rebirth, and hope for reconciliation, but later years showed that obviously we have not learned anything from history and that hate speech as we have witnessed before me has been successful. The unresolved history has begun to burden us and prevents us from reaching political consensus on Slovenia's key development goals. History is not black and white. War isn't just good, it's not just bad. The pain of the mother and wife behind the lost sons and husbands is the same on all sides. So where is the social humanity of those who distinguish between the dead and those who can mourn their victims and those who can't because they're supposed to be on the wrong side? History is gray and complex. Of course, history cannot be changed; facts are facts. But we can look at historical events honestly, objectively, and also understand them. However, for the purposes of compiling political points, we can continue to represent the history of cheerleading and Hujska. However, this is an additional plague for Slovenia and prevents us from taking a step forward. In every war, severe injustices have been committed, and time cannot erase them. They leave an indelible mark and World War II has certainly left a negative mark on Slovenian territory. It demanded a great deal of human sacrifice both between Slovenians and members of other nations. And as if that wasn't enough, as if four years of war were not enough, revolutionary power in postwar killings without any convictions has eliminated as many as 14 thousand 885 Slovenians. It's a thunderous number. Fourteen thousand 885 Slovenians. Not foreigners, not Germans, not Italians, but 14 thousand 885 Slovenians. Our country hasn't buried these victims in 70 years. These people have no grave, their remains are scattered all over Slovenia. Not only were they deprived of the right to a fair trial, but they were deprived of the right to a grave and a memory. The fact is, these cemeteries were hidden after World War II and were hoped to be spoken of only by a few. It was only after true freedom in 1991 that these things began to be spoken of as characteristic of the civilization nation. In New Slovenia we have been working for a long time to complete this chapter of our past history with the knowledge that we are all part of the same nation. Although we have been or have been on various sides, we are all part of the same nation’s body, which requires us to have the same view of responsibility for the sanctity of life and the dedication of the dead. It is indeed sad that we need a law for a decent burial of these victims and that at a normative level we need to regulate things that are self-evident in most countries. We can agree with our SDS colleagues here. However, I also hope that colleagues in the SDS understand that we are running out of time. 70 years after the end of the war, there are still many citizens who are tirelessly searching for their relatives who want to bury them and say good-bye to them. All these people are in years, 70 years after the end of the war is a long time. Dear colleagues from SDS, we don't have time to wait for the bloodstains to finally overlook and regret their actions. They'll probably never do that. Nor is it expected that some would soon give up defending the revolution. That is why, together, we must do everything we can to enable the living to find and bury their own. Why, in fact, do we need a new marriage if the 2003 War Cemetery Act is to arrange the burial of the victims? If that were true, we would not have 600 uncharted, unmarked and unregulated seas all over Slovenia today. The territory of our country is betrayed by the corpses and remains of our fellow citizens who had to be silenced. A total of 600 such sites have been discovered by the government's commission to address the issues of hidden graves in all its efforts so far. These tombs are only recorded and are therefore not yet protected under the War Cemetery Act because they are not registered in the War Cemetery Register. Simply put, no one cares about them or protects them at home. The fact is, every year we lose living testimony to help us discover the hidden war sites. In addition, the current War Cemetery Act poses many technical and procedural obstacles to the efficient work of the Commission and therefore we need a new law that will remove all bureaucratic obstacles that are on the way to finally fulfilling our civil duty. Unfortunately, the current War Cemetery Act does not allow this. The government commission for the resolution of hidden graves, led by Dr. Dežman, also attaches to this. The members of this Commission support the adoption of the new law, recognizing in it all the legal basis on which they will be able to intensify and complete their work. The completed work, however, means that the remains of these victims will not only be discovered but also buried as all the other victims fell during World War II. We Christian Democrats wonder why so many objections to the adoption of our law, why so many arguments against and little or little for, before the debate in the National Assembly. Will there be victims who could not defend themselves, let us not forget, among them were women and children, and still no witness to a tragic event? Are we gonna keep looking away and say that this didn't happen, that they were on the wrong side? In 2015, when the 70th anniversary of the world's largest sea and the victory of the Allied forces over man-made personal evils are organized in Europe and Slovenia, Slovenian people in their own country have always found it difficult to feel their tragedy of civil war. In the Devil’s pit, which has become synonymous with the weight of our conscience and the growing disunity, the bones of the victims of postwar beatings, which our democratic country has already assessed as a crime, are in a humanly unworthy manner. We Christian Democrats are therefore convinced that we must bury these human remains with dignity in search of a civil code. This action will be followed by the first steps and the first basis for reconciliation, which, according to our assessment, can only be followed. Dear colleagues, Members and Members! Today will be the day when we prove that we can face the unpleasant facts of our past history and that today will be the day that we can hope together and wish that the time will finally come when the host and the partisan will embrace themselves, just as the German soldier and the American soldier have hugged on Normandy's battlefields recently. And we can only hope that the time will come when the right and left politicians will be joined together by all the victims of the war, just as they did recently in St. Petersburg by the German and Russian foreign ministers.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u15	The text is given by the Alliance's Group of Ambassadors, Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u16	Hello! I've got a lot of paperwork, and I'm not gonna read anything, except what kind of thing I'm looking at. As much ideology as we have listened to it in the last hour and a half since we started this meeting, the proposer, when he proposed this law, probably did not foresee, at least so they convinced us when they came to the parliamentary group and assured us that they only wanted to technically regulate those things that the basic law did not really regulate. Oh, yeah. Today, I am even trying from the applicants to avoid this issue, how reconciliation must be made. I'm sorry. The marriage doesn't work, and it's not gonna happen. We can write what we want today, the right and the left will stay. Ideological beliefs, too. Personally, however, I am sure that it seems that we need a little more time than some other nations that have managed to do so before, and it seems that we will have to wait for the generational delay or some of their generations and generations will "pump" into this eternal hatred. I come from a family where I really have one and the other. I have to say that if we talked at home like we are talking in this House right now, it would be really amazing. Given that we are representatives of the people, we have in Parliament a demonstration of what you think can happen to this law, that it will not happen. And we demonstrate that all the time here. But very little did I hear in my views about the meaning of the law itself. I have heard from the fact that some do not understand that it was World War II, but rather they speak revolution, others who keep repeating only that it is necessary to identify who was the winner and who was the one who lost the war and attached to the chariots, besides not understanding today how the one who lost the war can actually become the winner. The winner can only be then and one who can look ahead with a few glances. When we are burdened with this, we can really only talk in Parliament about what we seriously think of rearranging with a fig in our pocket today, some are convincing and changing even the language. [[..]] Instead of the cemetery, they use the word "murder" to further deepen this gap between the Slovenians. And even so far they go and say that in the sea the bones cannot be buried, but they must go to the cemetery. They forget, however, that Teharje also needs to be dug because there was a sea. If you know what I mean, in what dimension and the game of words we're talking. It's kind of a false reconciliation for me, but it's a demonstration of the idea and a demonstration of the power for the future, how slowly, perfidically, in fact, on the bones that could most say themselves, but today they can't, someone is using this bone to talk about who the winner is and who's the one who lost. And that's wrong. Now let's go see the law. First of all, I must say that I am surprisingly surprised that the government has in fact shown some confusion in the definition of this law. Why she withdrew it from the government's meeting and then adopted a position at a written meeting only, more or less clearly, that there are shared opinions in the government as to how the matter must be resolved. So they couldn't get it together. On the one hand, we are listening to the presidents of the highest authorities in this country, where they are trying to demonstrate that it is finally necessary to settle down in some way and, on the other hand, they find it very difficult to implement and implement. And that's what we've been alerting the Alliance to. If the proposer intends to work on this law to correct technical errors or findings that would remove bureaucratic obstacles in order to accelerate in some way only the discovery of graves and, last but not least, their markings and a decent burial, then, of course, he did not achieve this purpose. If you look at the law, you will see that the law in one small thing really improves the matter, but let's just say what it is that we will not move on for long and wide, that it distinguishes what is archaeology, what is something that has happened, and it is already clear in advance that it is a grave, so let's appreciate and speed up the process, and on the other hand we have a problem because we want to write something very clearly in the cultural heritage, and the proposer forgets that cultural heritage also has some other procedures in another law that prolong the matter and stretch it. What will we gain by this law? In fact, we will win a commission that will be a kind of special institute that will be very much like the State Election Commission, which decides everything and is responsible for nothing. The government will be responsible, but she won't have a word. What's more, one other thing is very important what's going to happen. In fact, this commission will begin to duplicate some of the work already done by someone else. In 2008, we established the National Reconciliation Study Centre in the country, and we also gave this study centre some powers to explore the past history. Now we're transferring these same tasks, some of which the Study Centre has, to this committee. What will someone do now? What is this committee doing? I must say, if I were responsible for the ministry of decent burials, whatever the name of this ministry is, of course, the Ministry of Labour exists to understand each other, I would not agree if I were a minister, that a commission should decide for me and I would be responsible. And that's what this law is doing right now. The 18 articles have this law. Members of Parliament and Members, read this law. 18 articles! The only last article will not change with the amendment, and everyone else will. The last article speaks of when the law enters into force. And this one is the only one that's exactly written. We have a problem with the technical law that eventually the ravens attack and abuse it for a political idea and remind us of the problem we have in this country. We will have a similar problem when we build a monument — some people are already predicting that they don’t give a fuck about this monument — to all of them, because they say that it’s nothing at all. That's why I sometimes wonder, and it's right to remember one sentence that was also said in the last days when we celebrate the 70th anniversary at various events. I don't know why we Slovenians want to put so much weight on our backs that we're not entirely responsible for. In the end, it's only right to say something else. This law also reveals a vocabulary that seeks to further settle certain issues: hidden war graves, alleged war graves, newly discovered war graves, and a final decent burial. Excuse me. How many more times are we gonna bury? How many times?Oh, my God! That's what I'm for. And tell me whether it is not possible to make a decent burial in the Slovenian space today. Those who claim to know the law or who do so on purpose. Who in Slovenian space today can't get a death certificate if he says his name and location and where he was or if he just says he was? Tell me who can't get a death certificate. Everyone can get it. Tell me who's hiding the post-war graves today. Does anyone know him? We're actually doing something that we don't need to do. But it is true that the existing law has problems and technical obstacles. And that can be fixed. The proposer says they wanted to fix the existing law first, they had this idea, and the proposer also says that the profession told them that a new law should be written. Why do we now have to knowingly duplicate another law in a country where we realize that hundreds and hundreds of laws are already being duplicated? One more marriage to double and actually say that the old man can't be fixed. Then why don't we stop the old man? Why is it not stated in this provision that the old law is no longer in force? Because we need him. And that's what the proposer knows. What does the new marriage bring? Money. Money can be obtained without a new law. It's a matter of every time the government decides. But there is one fact. Even if today we point out to the possible new commission that it has 10 million euros, this moment, it will not solve this problem in at least two, three years, because it is physically impossible. It's impossible. So we all know we need time. It is not just time, especially tolerance and above all a deviation from ideology, that we can have a serious conversation. Are we mature for this? Today's introductory discussions have not convinced me the most. How do we decide? If I were to make a decision today on the basis of these discussions, I will certainly tell you that I would say no immediately. We agreed in the Alliance that we would talk and agree before the vote. But I can safely say today that this law is not really necessary and that the old man can be corrected. Above all, it is the task of the one who is ultimately responsible for it. This is the Ministry or the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u17	The word is given by the Italian and Hungarian National Communities Group, Dr. László Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Despite differing views in our parliamentary group, we estimate that the objectives of the draft law on hidden war graves and the burial of victims are largely following the right direction. After many years of irreconcilable resolution of this rostrum, it is not necessary to spend too much words in support of the pursuit that hidden graves for all victims of war and post-war violence are arranged with dignity. The marking or marking of all such graves and the right to a decent burial is a civil standard that should be fulfilled without any legal obligation. The Geneva Convention and the existing legal framework could also be sufficient, as the Minister also stressed in her position or address a few minutes or about an hour before me, if there was sufficient political will in the past. However, because of all the well-known circumstances, disagreements and conflicts after Slovenia's independence, the strict ignorance of the single party regime towards this issue, and the atmosphere that was then created that we did not even mention unilateral interpretations of history, unfortunately so far we were not able to fully and consistently regulate it. Therefore, a correction of the legal regime is necessary, in our view, in one way or another. In recent months, this has been quite uniquely discussed by most political and social actors. Prime Minister Cerar also spoke yesterday in response to the question before me about such a context. In short, we hope that there is a consensus on the need for a comprehensive solution to this sensitive issue, and that we should not be reopened to conflict areas that would continue to separate us from each other in the search for a legal upgrade. Finally, a step forward in the right direction should be taken in concrete terms, which may also be to some extent a support for this draft law in the first reading. However, even if there is no support, the regulation of this important task must not be stopped. Although we have different views on some concrete solutions to the proposed law on our part, this material can serve as a starting point for further consideration and completion of the text. We have foreseen that, according to the previous positions, I can no longer argue that the greatest debate and careful consideration will be required in the search for the correct form of operation and the composition of the commission to deal with cases relating to hidden graves, in the search for the most prudent form of work and in the preparation of the register of all hidden and other graves and in relation to financial matters. Nevertheless, it is likely that it will be necessary to hold on to a number of consensus, whether it is so or otherwise, but it must be our shared responsibility that possible differences do not stop the whole process again. We believe that some solutions can also take good practice from other countries. Nobody's actually talked about this today, even though we've got something like that. The national identity of the victims, as well as the political, ideological, religious, is not of primary importance in this matter, but it is important to stress that only the mention of the remains of members of the national communities living in Slovenia was in the past the most often taboo topic that should not be discussed. In the case of the Hungarian National Community in recent years, we have placed a memorial mark on those, and indeed in recent years, in the last two years, which in the summer of 1945 after a random election, i.e. on the basis of the so-called collective responsibility or the guilt of the model totalitarian regimes, have taken the Bolshevik currents of the new authorities to the concentration camp in Hrastovec or later in Straště, today's Kidričeva. I would like to point out that the extreme currents of the authorities mentioned above do not diminish the partisan struggle or the national liberation struggle. Therefore, from our point of view or from the point of view of the national communities, I can also refer to the Italian national community as well as to some other ethnic communities, and this issue has not yet been explored and even less comprehensively concluded. If we take a step forward and discuss concrete solutions to the law, our proposal would be in the context of further consideration in order to invite the relevant national organisations to participate, in particular in the area of data collection and processing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u19	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Dr Mitja Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u20	"There are few of us left, brothers." I went straight to the quote for a very simple reason, because today I thought we'd be the most reserved for the bill, and obviously that's not the case. It should be noted, however, that in the Modern Centre Party we are committed to finding the truth, committed to expressing the truth, committed to tolerance to this extent in order to provide equal opportunities for all. Here's our pesos and, of course, our exit. For today, as I have said in the beginning, there are few of us who stand in the position that it is necessary to tell the beans, that the truth should be expressed as it happened, and that the consequences of what has happened must also be brought out of the agenda of those who separate us. The 2nd World War of Hatred and Desire to Destroy the Social Achievements of Western Civilisation is for all generations to come, who for many years after World War II have not been able to live in co-existence with respect for diversity, both religious and national, those associated with political orientation and a world-wide vision, ideology, has left many victims behind. The revolution that followed her, too. We are reminded of this every day by the mortal remains of the victims of war and postwar beatings, their relatives, whose only desire remains to maintain human dignity, respect for the deceased, visit to the graves of the relatives, respect for the right to piette, and finally equal opportunities for inclusion in society, without negative markings. All victims of war and postwar violence deserve a decent burial, and a respected one. Are we, as a society, capable of surpassing diversity and decently burying all the victims of war and postwar killings? In the Modern Centre Party, we believe that, but only if they are at the forefront of the victim and their relatives. Open questions are bridging, and insistence on ideological warfare is unacceptable. In the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre, we support the objective set out by the drafter of the law: to comprehensively regulate the areas of hidden military graves for all victims of war and post-war violence, thereby guaranteeing everyone the right to a decent burial, the marking of a grave or a cemetery and the memory of them. We also agree that we need an adequate legal basis for further work in the area of detection of hidden war graves and their entry into the register of war graves, identification of victims in these graves and their worthy burial and marking of the cemetery in a reasonable proportionate sense. In doing so, we need to know in advance what are the reasons why the current War Cemetery Act is not being implemented in certain parts and whether it is possible to achieve the purpose of the bill that we are considering today in any other way than by adopting another law whose content raises a number of questions. Today, it is much easier for me to tell you honestly what our concerns about the text were, given the response of other Members of this House. I hope you were able to make sure that our purpose was constructive, honest and would not have gone to this place and at this point, because everything has already been told. Like the parliamentary groups before us, we believe that it will be obvious that, given that we have not found a common language in which the provisions of the proposed law need to be improved, the amendments will have to be cut down practically, as has already been said, into all the articles of the law. At such a time, of course, reason will come and we seriously wonder whether it makes sense to proceed with this kind of work or not, on the basis of what we are going to do and what today's general debate can bring, if not just to accept the proposal as suitable for further consideration, given that we have heard that "the few brothers are left behind" so that those who propose the law, comprehensively and effectively resolve the open issues, get sufficient arguments and sufficient grounds for doing so. Whether you continue to make new proposals and make new proposals, or whether the ministry or the government will be able to make this effort to resolve open issues. It's hard to understand that we need two marriages to bury all the dead. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we will make every effort to achieve this objective, and we also expect a constructive approach from the proposer of the law, cooperation in the search for the appropriate means to achieve the objective. We need to leave the society of opportunity and development for young people. Development in the field of human rights, equal opportunities, is also an important aspect of development. In order to finally be able to focus on future and development, we must first heal the wounds that have burdened Slovenian society for decades. We must bury all the victims with dignity. Today, the proposaler has the opportunity to convince us that it is in order to achieve our common goal, that is to decently bury all the victims, the best way that he himself proposes, without opening ideological questions. At the end of the day, we will have to live by our own decision. It is essential that we be able to live with it and, therefore, as has already been said in the case of the predecessors, we will make a final decision after hearing all the arguments in today's debate. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u21	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. I give the first floor to Ms Ludmila Novak, the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u22	Thank you for your opinions, for your discussions. I will begin at the end where Mr Horvat ended when he expressed his wish for our constructive approach in pursuing the goal. You know, I went to each of the parliamentary groups and also to some civil associations myself to look for common points or to see what is disturbing, what is wrong with improving the law. Some of us have met even more than once. Unfortunately, there were very few concrete proposals or even some of you made it clear that there was something to be done. As I now see from your point of view, everyone stays on his ideological field, if I say so. As I have explained many times before, in New Slovenia we asked ourselves why we are not making progress in detecting hidden graves, why there was only one, now I think three are registered, why there is no progress, why we do not bury the dead. And all that the Minister has mentioned, what the government has done, most of these things have been done by 2009. That's when the pit in the Devil's Cave was discovered, obviously it was too much, and it all stopped. And as you know, there's postmortem remains in the plastic crates. One invitation to tender has now been issued, which has not even been properly implemented or the opinion of the section in this area has not been taken into account. When we found out what the problem was, we got information that the law was also a problem. First, we wanted to improve, repair, supplement the War Cemetery Act. However, when we met with the Commission, the government's existing secret grave commission, which is the government's consultative body, we were told that the problems were elsewhere that are of a technical nature. Of course, as long as there is will and money, we can also make progress if there is a lack of will in the ministry, if there is not enough funding provided, if the proposals of the Commission are not respected and taken into account, then things stop. And that's how they stopped. Why was the cemetery in Kamnika Bistrica now registered? Because there are mainly Montenegrin victims and Montenegrins want to build a monument there. Is it not sad that we regret the genocide in Srebrenica, that we remember the victims in Armenia, the Katina Forest, and elsewhere, but we are not able to bury the Slovenians? It was not the intention of New Slovenia to cause new ideological divisions, so we said that by law we wanted to resolve technical procedures so that we could actually implement this law. And why is the War Cemetery Act not appropriate – it was born in 2003 after 5 years of coordination, which was amended in 2009? Because at the time, they did not even know what problems they would face in the excavations or in these tombs. They didn't know. We already have different views here on how this issue should be addressed. Everyone has their views and opinions. That is why we have proposed that the Commission should have more powers. The Commission would consist of 9 members, of whom 6 are experts in various fields: historians, anthropologists, archaeologists, cultural heritage, mainly six profiles and three representatives of civil society, who also represent the victims' properties. This Commission would have greater powers to make operational work better. Now the commission was working, and she suggested something, and at the Ministry, it didn't go on, and it didn't go into the register. 600 hidden graves, some already growing, are almost impossible to find, even though they were recorded. Witnesses are dying, but some still say that we still have enough time to make everything else happen before we bury our dead. We didn't share them, either, not partisans, not patriots, not civilians, not Slovenes, not Germans or anyone else, because they were all human. And every man deserves to be buried, to have a grave, to have his name on it, if we know him. And everyone else imagines how these tombs will be handled. One with such a sign, the other with such a sign, the third with such a sign. Therefore, once again, this commission, which, by consensus, would have jurisdiction, would decide on professional grounds whether in some cases it would be more necessary to cross, dig, or, in some cases, a tomb or a village cemetery, or what is the best and smartest in a particular situation or a particular cemetery. This commission, which would be called the Government, of course, the government is a political body, can also be replaced, the government and the Commission will prepare a work programme. The government approves the funds for this, so the Commission cannot invent and work on its own initiative, and it also responds to the government, which can also resolve it. Do we think the officials at the Ministry know all the specific problems? Are they experts in all fields? They're not. It saddens me very much that we have had a very productive, good meeting with representatives of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and the same opportunities that are responsible for this area. At that time, members of the Commission so far, some of whom have been sitting on this committee for twenty years, have given details about the problems they face. And the ministries have also confirmed that they are right that in many ways the existing law does not solve problems. But unfortunately, they took some time, a few days, and they made a political decision again. What's going on right now is a fire extinguisher to make it look like something's going on. By 2009, all things were mainly done, and now only a little. And what we hear is that the family has to pay for the remains of their relatives. And there is such a futility in the existing law that they can demand their own excavations if they are convinced that their relatives are buried somewhere, and they end up paying for it themselves, for things caused by war, postwar events that they were not themselves guilty of. It saddens me that at this time when we all talk about how to do something, because I think that the earth is ready, that people are ready to do it on both sides, we insist once again on our own. We don't care if the problem is solved, but that's what we're talking about, that everybody's collecting their political points and that everyone's defending their own right. I can say we can be ashamed of ourselves for being responsible for the situation in society. It's sad that he's manipulating himself here with the name of the late Dr. Andre Bajuk. During life, some have manipulated him enough, only they should apologize. Speaking of prestige — what prestige is it when someone wants us to bury the dead? Only those who imagine it like that want some prestige. When we talk about financial resources – of course, a good legal basis is needed, the will of the competent ones is needed and money is also needed. Let's remember the last, not the last, but the plane crash, the way they brought the family to the place where it happened so they could mourn. As they sought to find all the remains of the deceased, they could be identified and buried. How important that is. How important it is to know where the remains are or to acknowledge to these victims the dignity of man, regardless of where he was or what he was doing. Whoever listened to the sermon of Archbishop Zoret in Brezha, I would recommend that everyone read it if you had not heard it when he said that various armies were going through Slovenian houses and took it once, once again, it was a personal decision of someone. He had to go, or his family suffered. He also mentioned who were the greatest victims of these times. Those who had to commit acts of bloodshed. Those are the biggest victims because someone ordered them to do so and because then most of the blame had to be taken. But I'm not talking about these right now. I think most people have forgiven, forgiven, but let's return dignity to the people and allow these cemeteries to be revealed, arranged, dug up so that people will have the right to grave, their own to mourn. Of course, reconciliation cannot be legalized, but we can take some practical, concrete steps to get closer to solving the problems of this sad past.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Lilliana Kozlovich, get Mr. Joseph Horvat ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u24	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear colleagues and colleagues! What I do know is that I'm looking forward to living in freedom for 70 years, but I'm a little less, because I'm younger, but I think that's the precious thing that we really need to realize. And even what I know is that not my mind, not my mind, not my soul can understand events during World War II, neither after World War II, nor any world war in general. I just can't understand these things on my own. We're saying we still have time. I don't agree with that. We've missed a lot. Many countries did so immediately after World War II, and we will probably have to do so by then. And where are we today? Where are the reasons? Are we afraid of that? Isn't there money? Where exactly are the reasons? I don't think there was any real political will in particular. This is because perhaps each one of us understands reconciliation in his own way. As my colleague Horvath has already said before me, I share the same opinion with him, and I think that all members of our party, in fact, understand in a way that we understand that during the war, all of these acts were committed. And that's what the Institute of Recent History said. He said that this was done by all those who were armed in our territory at the time: invaders, domestic traitors, patriots, allied forces, partisans, in short. And what we have to do is condemn all those acts that were unacceptable, no matter who did them. If I touch on the law itself, which is the subject of debate today, I will first and foremost touch on one element, namely recording and describing. Our goal, somehow, is for all of us to properly bury these victims, record them and have proper protection. The law states that post-war graves or generally graves are those that are registered, recognised by the state body and then provided with adequate protection. This element is somehow involved in reaching the ultimate goal we want. I see the problem was the recording. As Dr Dežman said the 2003 law was a good law and it had a good purpose, but there was a certain segment missing, especially the methodology for how to handle certain things. So it's a question of how to provide the right record, how to record. As we can see, we have about 600 graves registered, but they are not registered in the cemetery register to obtain adequate protection. Here the government can tell us, but not this one, probably all, why it didn't happen, what are the reasons that this entry into the register didn't actually happen. Because if it were inscribed, we probably wouldn't be talking about this today. We also hear that money problem. And it's true, I only found one, and probably all the governments did the same thing. For 2013, Minister Vizjak set EUR 2 000 500 for postwar graves, a conclusion which states that this is for work and for meetings of the Commission. More than that wasn't done. In fact, they warn that the entry, but today I hear that three are entries and that it is Kamniška Bistrica, this is the case that I have found that they have found that there is not enough legal basis. So this stuff needs to be changed. But when I was preparing for this speech, I wrote down that it was only from the debate that I would understand what we really want and where we are staying. I now find from the debate that we remain on our shores somehow, that everyone has said his or her position and that it is not the real political will to actually settle these matters. Again, let me say that we are not burdened with ideological themes in the Modern Centre Party, even though you sometimes try to attribute this to us. We do not divide our people, not our left, not our right. What we want is for our people to live in spiritual peace, economic security, and, above all, that the people are content. We want to solve this issue, but in a completely objective way, without dividing into ideology, left and right. One or two marriages, that was already said today. If we wanted to settle these things, we wouldn't need the law as a rule. All that matters is the political will to bring these things to an end. I mean, even though we've heard that this should be a reminder and a memory that things don't happen again, but very far left and extremely right thinking, I'm afraid they can bring us here. And even some of the carefree opinions I've heard today, I don't think they're going to solve this problem. I think we've missed a lot of time and it's time to save these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor to prepare Mr Igor Zorčič. Here you go, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! At first, I would like to thank from the heart the members of the Commission, the government commission for the issue of hidden graves, who have been instrumental in drafting the text that we are discussing today. Dr. Jože Dežman, Dr. Mitja Ferenc, Mr. Paula Jamnik and many others. I regret that the Government of its government has absolutely not listened and respected. So, dear colleagues, through Udis today you have received a letter from Dr. Jožet Dežman, please read it, it is very short, and you will understand what the problem is. And what is the problem that we want to solve with this law? To the question of when civilization was born, anthropologists answer: "Man became human when he began to bury his Paradise and mark the place of burial." When we began to perceive the bodies of other people as sacred, we firmly crossed a line that separates both animal and human. When we marked and went back to the burial site of our paradises with respect, something came up that we can say first, religious conduct, a feeling of excess, a sense of immortality. The grave, which is not between us, colleagues and colleagues, should be, can be an active source of tension, disaster and hatred in human relations for a century and more. The grave is the world, the grave means that we believe in man and insist on man. He once built a civilization to preserve it and build it in our time. And now, for a practical example, dear colleagues and colleagues. We've been standing in front of an open grave for five years. Some graves! Thousands of open graves at St. Barbara's. And you say that the marriage works, that everything runs normally. What kind of company are we?Oh, my God! For five years we stand before open graves, thousands of open graves! Where in Europe, where you will find such an example in the world. Where?Oh, my God! What kind of company are we, ladies and gentlemen? We've been in open graves for five years, and we can't bury them. And you say everything works, everything's normal. So we can bury it a little differently. Yes, it will be, no. I also remember the very open grave of Dr. Andre Bajuk, mentioned by colleague Eva Irgl. How much humiliation he experienced, only at the open grave did everyone sigh and scold, as they would say, "Oh, my God, he was a great man." We knew that a long time ago. He's my political father if anyone's interested. Then they all made fun of the way they would sing praises to him. He was humiliated. Only Europe gave him credit. And he worked hard to heal this Slovenian wound. He was not given, he was ashamed, he was humiliated. As we today feel, the proponents, of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor to prepare Mr Uroš Prikl. Here you go, Mr. Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u28	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. Today, at the beginning of this point, I expected the matter to turn out the way it was proposed. It is that we will consider a law that will be, to the greatest extent possible, to this technical nature, even though it may sound ugly. We're looking at funerals outside after the war killed. However, the law, as presented, was meant in this sense to regulate what some civil and humanistic standards impose upon us, namely to bury the dead who were not buried, lying in ditches, caves and so on. Man differs from other living things in this way. Even by other things, as well as by cultivating a memory of his ancestors, by cultivating some respect and memory in certain places where the deceased are buried. In this sense, in my initial opinion, the proposal for this law was also considered. But today we witnessed a debate that surprised me. Again, some ideological calculations have been opened. It seemed like one side was provoking the other side. Some say that we do not really need a law to bury anyone, that only barbarians need such laws. Some say, however, that certain conditions still need to be met. So we have to condemn certain ideologies. Others again say that some ideology should be magnified in such actions. We can't agree with either one of them. All of this shows that there is much disagreement in this national assembly today regarding this law. It's probably one such dimension of a bill you can't even predict when you're reading the bill yourself. As far as the law is concerned, I have some concerns. Perhaps the proposer will respond to them during today's debate. Have we heard about the need for a new marriage? They say it's old law. The government says that it is not doing well, but the government has provided us with information that 600 records of hidden military graves, 185 probes, 60 overpasses and excavations have been made on the basis of the existing law. The proposer says it is not implemented. I don't have data on where these major problems are. We hear today that at some principle level it's not right, it's not right, it's not money, there's no methodology, there's no technical problems, but we don't know which. And since we don't know which one, we don't know if the new marriage will play the same song again. It is said that even under the new law, things will not go as they should. That's the problem. However, if we know what the problems are, we should also consider that the old law changes accordingly or that the new law completely replaces the old law, because the existence of two laws, which essentially regulate the same matter, brings a whole lot of ambiguity, illogicality and will certainly be in the future in the work of commissions. One of the concerns I have with regard to the law or proposal for a law is the competence of the newly established commission. They are defined in a way that the Commission’s secretary should also be the director of the Directorate or the head of the Directorate at the Ministry. I think that in this part of the law is also likely to interfere with the Law on State Administration, and perhaps in this part too this second law on State administration should be amended, which in fact provides that the Directors are essentially the prime minister. In this part, there may be some disagreements at work in the implementation of laws to which we can avoid an appropriate amendment of the law that we are considering today. It has also been somewhat unclear in relation to payments. One part states that the Commission works free of charge, on the other hand, to receive a compensation of one sixth or one quarter of the ministerial salary. In this regard, I don't mind that one who does something to get that salary. But we don't know what he's gonna do from this marriage. Otherwise, there are obligations that the Commission must make an annual plan and then report on what it has done in the past year, but on this basis there is no leverage, control to determine whether the Commission has done well or not. In fact, it seems only that this Commission is appointed for a five-year term and that this mandate will expire only when the deadlines expire, regardless of what has been done. Above all, this proposal is also problematic because I think it is too ambitious. We have a commission for a certain period of five years, but this law does not mention anywhere when this commission is supposed to do its work. Is this a job for five years, ten, fifty, a hundred years? I think that the law should be directed in this direction, that the situation is analysed and precisely determined, that this and that will be done in such a time, and that matters will be closed. In this part, I therefore think that he should be somewhat more ambitious, but I also expect his opinion from the proposer on these concerns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The speaker has the floor. Mrs. Ludmila Novak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u30	Mr Zorčič has laid so many things that I fear I will forget and I will answer immediately. Indeed, the current consultative commission does not have a limited mandate at all, so some have been on this committee for 20 years. And this law of ours provides exactly for the appointment process. So the government appoints, the commission consists of nine members, six experts, three representatives of civil society, the relatives of these victims. He has a five-year mandate and a work programme, and the government approves this programme. So he can't do something on his own, but he has to work with the government. The government also provides money for this. The Commission shall then report to both the Government and the National Assembly on its work. You asked when the cases concluded that we had not proposed precisely when the cases would end. If you've read the law and we have comparisons in the introduction, say Germany, they started working there right after the war, and every year they discover new graves, they regulate them. If I recall correctly, in 2012, 2013, one year 38 million, one year 37 million. So we cannot say that tomorrow will be over, especially regardless of the scope of the problem and the number of graves. What do we want with this law? In order for this commission to have a tool not to argue about a cemetery every time, how we will solve a matter, but this commission has the authority to examine and propose a solution to a problem as an expert commission. I think there'd be less controversy about it then than if we were talking about each other on a case-by-case basis. Why is this law needed even though we have a marriage about war graves? Because the War Cemetery Act regulates matters more precisely when a cemetery is already registered. And we have 600 hidden graves, of which only three are registered, so they're not protected, they build roads, highways, some when they discover bones, they take them away to hide them, so they don't have any problems or anything like that. These are things that appear and repeat. A number of such details have been told exactly by members of the commission where the problems are. For example, it says here that there will also be a commission if there are several relatives who want some of the remains to be decided by the commission. Why? Since one of his own wants to go to their graves, another may want to go somewhere else, another may want to go somewhere else. You know, as we have different views here, there are also various problems in the field. This is why this Commission has worked so closely with us and has proposed solutions because they are dealing with problems. And if their work is barren and there is no final solution, there is no entry into the register, then they find that their work makes no sense. And why the cash prizes? They are very limited, and we sometimes advocate that some have the right to earn extra, although fees are very high. This is not a matter of high fees, they are now working voluntarily, but it is that every job, honest work, deserves a reward and a reward. If you're doing something voluntary, when you remember you're not willing to do it anymore, you stop. If you are paid at least minimally for this, you also have more responsibility, but there must be no motive for working on this committee's payment, there must be no motive. But it is only right that if someone is responsible to work for someone, at least a minimum reward. The members of the Commission with long-term experience were based only on specific cases. Let me say that Croatia also had such a law, which it then terminated when it solved the problems. The more we work intensively, the quicker we can solve these problems. However, if we are just trying to solve these problems and do something every year to justify our work and claim, yes, because we are doing, and in reality it is not the end of this work, because it is not the right will to do so, then we have real problems because it is not the right and true will to solve this problem and resolve it. I was hoping that we were so mature, so human and so ready, that we would take a step forward 70 years after the end of the war. Unfortunately, I have to say here today that I am listening to the sad debates. Even more saddened may be the relatives of these victims, with whom they are so easily manipulated.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u31	Mr Uroš Prikl has the floor to prepare Mrs Marija Bachič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u32	Thank you very much, President for your word. Once again, dear fellows and colleagues! After this discussion, it is difficult to say something shocking new. In a way, I am also deeply saddened by this debate. I am trying to find out in some way what this debate is all about. I sincerely believe that the proposaler has a good purpose with this bill. But unfortunately with this rule, you can't convince me with this bill. I'll tell you why not. First time. I believe that under the War Cemetery Act, which is in force, we can implement all the provisions perfectly normal, properly and with dignity. All segments are clearly defined. Why out of 600 registered graves only three are registered, why relatively few have been probed, of course, is now another issue. Surely there are some administrative obstacles here, and there is certainly also a delimitation of responsibility between the government commission and the ministry or for this competent service, and there is probably something here in the funds themselves that are probably not sufficient, that would need more. Either I think or I'm sure it's not the right will. Until, colleagues and colleagues, we will not find this, we will unite here, we can write any law, and we will not be able to do what we would like in the final stage. It grieves me that at this point we are beginning to reinterpret history, to descend to an ideological level in the sense that in some way we may even try to fabricate or otherwise interpret historical facts that are one and the only. This will not lead us to some positive conclusions. I'd like to be here in the future to scrape our species. Last but not least, the creation of a monument to the victims of all wars, which I believe is just before realisation, that it will unite us. No regulation, no law within us will unite us, it will not mean reconciliation, and it will not mean that, for once, we will clear up the past and look to the future. I will not support this marriage. We have heard that those who would potentially, hypothetically, support him, conditionally support him, have already seen the amendments in him, practically in every article of the law. I wonder what this law will be like. I would like here to withdraw the power to pool energy and to try to change to the best of our ability where it is found that the existing law is not the best or that some problems are evident in the realization itself, and then with the sincere will to work and once we finish the story here and live in the future, but not to search the past and deepen the differences between us who believe or wish that they are not as big as maybe from any debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u33	Mrs Marija Bachič has the floor. Let's get the mags ready. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u34	Thank you, once again, Mr President. Your Honor! We need to understand and respect the words of John the Resident in Poland, where there was a great finale of World War II 70 years ago, and that it binds us to the dead, that we must not fight political and ideological battles over graves, and that from the past we must not praise only what suits us. The Slovenian nation therefore needs unity and peace for life and progress in Europe, and reconciliation, understanding, forgiveness, tolerance and respect for one another are needed. Everyone who has lost his life in the Great Sea of World War II must have a monument, but the inscription on it must not distort historical facts and not harbor hatred among our young generation, who must know who committed violence against our nation and who swore allegiance to the perpetrators of this crime and who sacrificed himself in the fight for the existence of his people against fascism and Nazism. It must not become a terror to forget the historical memory of our people. In the SD, we do not oppose a decent burial and reconciliation. However, we feel that this does not require a new law. All we need to do is find the best solution to the decent burial of all victims of war and post-war violence. The provisions of the applicable law, which has been adopted by broad support and consensus, also regulate this part, and we want to implement the existing law more consistently in the Group of Social Democrats instead of duplicating the legal basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u35	The word has magic. Branko Grimes. Get Dr. Dragan Matić ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! Let us return just a few years ago, less than you think, in 2008, when Slovenia so successfully led the European Union. At that time, there was a meeting in this Chamber, which I led as the then President of the Education Commission. It was about intercultural dialogue as a value. What was the basic message of intercultural dialogue as values? That it is necessary to speak openly and without deception. Let us ask ourselves, ‘ Are we truly capable of doing this in the darkness that is here today before all of us? ’ What separates man from animals, ladies and gentlemen, anthropologically? Relation to the dead. And what country do we live in? In a country where industrial effluents are at the cemetery of criminals, in a country where you can't practically go into the woods without running into the remains of the bodies, in a country where it's said that those who were murdered there should be tied to a barbed wire, shot naked, thrown into a karst cave, which lies there. And when you say somewhere that it's wrong, you hear the scandal that they've been pushed too little into it — that's what I've been through in Kranj myself. We speak in Parliament, which stands exactly opposite the monument – not the monument of victory in war, not the monument of the struggle against the invader, but before the monument of revolution. Ladies and gentlemen, the revolution! Those who left the whole carriage of babies to be burned by the sun and defended those who wanted to help them were partisans. What's a partisan? It's a party soldier, if anyone doesn't know where that word comes from. Those who have built young girls alive in the Hudo Cave, which is an incomprehensible crime, are genocide, ladies and gentlemen, who are not obsolete, but have no moral, ethical or any right on this basis to salt their minds or enjoy any privilege. And in fact, in the whole of this story, and that's why it never comes to an end, it's just a story about privileges. When it's neglected what I started with — the relationship to the dead, the pieta. Ladies and gentlemen, I claim with all responsibility that all bodies must be dug up, as is done with those from World War I, from the front. Someone who's found somewhere in the hills is well arranged and taken to a joint. If it is possible, it shall be identified, if it cannot be done any more, it shall be kept as unknown. It's the fifth relationship. But not that they are left anywhere or any other way, but that anyone should stand up for it. There were also some on this side who thought it best to leave everything where they are. That's not right, that's not a pie, that's not human, ladies and gentlemen. And while, ladies and gentlemen, the monument to the revolution is standing over there, and many others, it is a monument to this very murder of babies, living on the back of a teenage girl. What did they do to anyone, or to babies? This monument stands over there, ladies and gentlemen, so we can understand each other. As long as it's like that, I'm personally against putting up another new monument. The most we can do for reconciliation, if you like to talk about it so much, is to arrange a decent burial, to clean people up, their remains in the morgues, to identify everything that is possible, but not properly arranged, in a pietically manner, and to remove all these monument covers and to stop with a quasi culture of wearing signs that characterize it. The red star symbolizes dying babies, ladies and gentlemen, and you just keep jumping under the red star if that's what you want if someone doesn't understand it. And nothing good that she may have ever meant could have accounted for that crime that happened when everything else was over. And because of this, these things in Slovenia are so difficult to match. These things are so difficult to arrange, because some on this basis, of course, draw political capital and material capital and goods. What are all those palaces like from Cat's Fairy on? Did these people build them themselves? Yeah, they killed those who were in there, and they moved in. That's what this was all about. What was the revolution? Organised murder of innocent people plus organised state robbery. They don't teach this Slovenian school. But exactly and only this is a revolution. And there's a monument over there, ladies and gentlemen! As long as this monument is there, we don't need any new monument, and I don't think there's any law. But we need people in power who will be capable of some human dignity, respect, values and human empathy. Empathy with those who are no longer among us for such and other reasons. You were talking about liberation. I don't know if you're going to let a whole wagon of babies die in the sun - freeing what? Delivering evil. Only evil has been freed, one system has been replaced, and the other has not been better. How shortsighted it is if he does not hope to speak openly in these matters and that we are always doing this over and over again, to illustrate with one example. Because earlier it was the most vehement thing said by the United Left lady, I played a little game, and I picked up some of their texts from the Internet, where you find a lot of them, I put them together a little bit, and listen carefully to me until the end, because I will finally say the point. This war is fighting capital. The occupation is perfect, and we haven't invented a weapon against it yet. Everyone has the opportunity to change the world we live in. Let's get up. We are socialists, enemies of the current capitalist economic system, which exploits the economically weak with unfair wages by misappreciating human beings after wealth rather than by responsibility and ability. May this year's May 1st again the day of wrath, determination and courage, the day of the power of the united people, who take their destiny into their own hands. May the holiday work again become what it once was, a hope and a threat. The hope of a vast majority who serve their daily bread in the path of their own face, the threat of a small number of elites who beat and marred working people. To confront poverty, subordination and poverty with a clear alternative, ecological, democratic socialism. I don't agree with any of these texts. But I ask you – are you behind these texts, ladies and gentlemen? You're standing. Great. You just got in line for Adolf Hilter. For the second paragraph which I have read, ladies and gentlemen, is the text of Adolf Hitler, and I will read it to you in the original in the English text. "We are socialists, we are creatures of today's capitalistic economic system for the exploitation of the economically weekend, with its unfair aspects, with its almost evaluation of a human being according to wear and property instead of responsibility and performance." Adolf Hitler.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u37	First.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, don't judge others so you won't be judged by yourself, because you don't know what you're talking about. Socialists, you're all the same. Do you want to hear it in the streets? Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is also so difficult to appreciate what happened after World War II. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u39	My friend Grimes, [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u40	and in Slovenia, too, so inappropriate. [[…]] Because one socialism has replaced the other – national. And they were both criminal. And these things need to be arranged in a fifth way once and for all. You need to bury people, put them together in the morgues, you need to remove everything that reminds [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u41	I'm not gonna turn it off. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u42	to criminals and stop celebrating it and then build Slovenia because [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u43	My friend Grimes, [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u44	As long as Slovenia is based on lies, it cannot be economically successful. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u45	My friend Grimes, now like this. You spoke, you started out as, ok, the debate is relatively broad, we have a general debate, and then you pointed essentially at the opposite side and tried to prove with, I will say, the use of Slovenian and English, we always have a problem in Slovenia using English, especially in this Parliament when we can, when we can't. I should actually give you some reminders. I will give you a warning, certainly for this debate, because it does not contribute to this topic that we are talking about today, not at all, but at the same time I will give a procedural opportunity to the opposite party to say something, or I will have to let them speak the same thing against you. And that's terrible. She used it, and here is one thing that has become practice in this House. And this practice is that when people speak, they tend to represent the position of the groups of Members, but above just that position, they are left alone. They are sometimes very broad, they are abuses of the whole thing, but this time, if there has been abuse, it has been much smaller than ever before, as we have heard in this House. So I wouldn't be discussing this matter anymore. I'm giving you a reminder of the part where you did an experiment with the opposite side that you should not, in principle, do. You can do it through me. You can't talk to her. Yes, you do. Now I'm going to give the floor to the person who asked for it first, and this is Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u46	Thank you for your word. I strongly protest these words, for we in the United Left always advocate the values of NOB and the fascist fight. Just the opposite of your side, which advocates these fascist practices and advocates for the people who have cooperated. That is why I do not allow ourselves to create our program, our statements, anything in Parliament, and I ask you to protect me, because I strongly oppose and strongly protest against such an enemy speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u47	Here's what we're gonna do. Now I have a word before I give anyone a word for procedural. That part you're protesting, it's perfectly correct, and that's why I gave him a warning. That part of you condemning them for fascism is an insult, and for that I give you a warning. So you're on your own right now, and I'm asking that we no longer go this way. That's not how we define ourselves here ideologically. We're talking about a specific law, we're talking about burying the victims, we're not talking about anything else. Do not make me, as President of the National Assembly, have to speak more than is absolutely necessary in order to hold this meeting. I'll talk myself out of it. I hope it's my turn. This time, I ask that the debate is now relatively calm and that you withdraw those procedural proposals you have. Is he okay? Procedural or replica? Procedurally, Anja Bah Žibert. I hope you don't have to give a reminder.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u48	I hope I didn't really get it preventive. President, I'm really asking you when he's a magician. Grimes was talking, he was falling for it. Not only that, but even with me, through the hall, there was a controversy over what I was defending and what I didn't. The fact is, if you gave a warning to your colleague Grimes, you should have given it to your colleague by then. She answered herself, she found herself in those words, no one asked her for answers. And that's really not right. And if we are to conclude this meeting in a peaceful debate, then we must be consistent with every debate. The fact is, it was an intrusion into words, and it's so hard, you know, to talk and act. Maybe it's easier for you. Maybe it's a little harder for some people. But the fact is, there was an abuse of the rules of procedure on the other hand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u49	This warning applies, but it applies to most of the debates in Parliament. The audience does not hear this, while, for example, the opposite side or those who are destined or not intended to do so try to interfere with the speaker in one way or another. That's what this is all about. But in this case it wasn't about that, but it was actually about, let's say, a duel of two ideological positions that are trying to prove each one right. Every position in Parliament is ideological, cannot be different. I'm sorry. We are politicians, and that is why we cannot avoid it at all. But I would like to discuss it with dignity. Comrade Grimes, would you like another word?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u50	Mr President, I reject your reminder. Why? Because I used this case because, as I foretold, I wanted to show why he wanted to share people again and again with emphasis on this fight, and so on, who is the winner and who is the loser, and how inappropriate that is. They didn't separate the lines themselves, did they? That's the problem. And it was the same at the end of World War II. And that's still relevant to the subject, as well as during World War II, if you want. Not only did people follow the words of one and the other in good faith, but he was sometimes completely driven toward his will. And today we're talking about people who have often been victims who have found themselves somewhere where even in dreams they don't want to be, who have experienced something like a nightmare, and end up being victims of defamation or whatever, disgrace or after a war of crime. And that's what we're talking about, and how inappropriate that is, if we keep sharing it with the winners, the losers and so on, I wanted to show you with this case. And I think I was successful with this reaction.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u51	I will be successful with a warning, and I will insist on this matter. Now Dr. Dragan Matić has the floor to prepare Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Respectable law-makers! I think you've now seen a picture of what that real core of the problem is. While I will talk about the technical and legal and professional problems that I see in connection with this law, the root of the problem is that, with some general civilisation standard, ideological debates are on fire. And as I understand it, that was exactly the purpose of your law to avoid it and to achieve something that was inherent to human civilization or should be inherent. The proposal for the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries, of course, agrees in the Modern Centre Party when we talk about the declared intentions highlighted by the applicant. This is to accelerate the resolution of the issue of hidden graves in such a way that they will be regulated and transformed into conventional regulated war graves. I think that there is rarely anyone in this Chamber, but also outside it, who would object to the issue of the inappropriate last resting place of a group of people or individuals being settled in a dignified and civilized manner; of course, within the limits of the possibility. For in history, the classic last resting place could never be provided to all people. Wars of storms and horrors have often broken the minimum standards that still make a man. Such sad cases are not limited to World War II; they have occurred before, and unfortunately, because of the effects of time that pushes them all into oblivion, we have pushed them out of our collective memory. For example, I remember that in the village around Ljubljana, where I lived, I walked almost every day past the old farm house, which was abandoned at the time, today is a multi-housing facility. It was a touching memory board that the master of this house built. Because both sons fell in World War I, and he did not know where they were lying, he built a monument for them in the wall of the house. It said that they fought bravely in Galicia for their homeland, then Austria. He wrote something else: The memory of you, dear sons, will live as long as it is the foundation of this house. The foundation of this house no longer stands. But it's just as an illustration that with the right to a decent grave, it's as sad as the right to work for young people. In principle, it is supported and, unfortunately, it is never possible to achieve this for everyone and for all. Today, too, the goals outlined in the bill are the right to a grave or a decent burial, something that is in line with reality. This reality consists not only of political will but also of the human resources and financial capacities that are actually available today and here, that is, in today's situation in which our country and society are. However, we attach the purpose of the law, particularly because the proposaler points out that the law does not intend to open ideological debates. And that's exactly the limit that we're going to keep in the SMC Group. The purpose of the law is acceptable to us until it turns out that someone would like to use it for ideological debates and a revision of the outcome of World War II. We support the aims of the law to try to change the universally recognized civilisational conclusions, who was on the right side of World War II and who was not. If we agree with the stated objectives of the law, we have serious concerns about the solutions that the proposal for a law brings. That's what my friend Zorčič was talking about. These concerns are considerable and I do not intend to mention everyone at this point, but – I would like to know the most which body the applicant had as an example when he wrote about what powers the government commission should have for research into hidden graves. These are very large in the bill. The Commission itself lays down the conditions of action, powers and tasks; however, it is unclear to whom it is responsible for its work. Not only does the Commission itself adopt a work plan, which is then approved by the government, but it also adopts the rules on which it works. She assigns her own fees, and for administrative matters, she thinks of herself as secretary-general of the Directorate-General of the competent ministry; and if she fails to obey the members of the commission properly enough, they can propose to the Minister his replacement. This was explicitly stated by the applicant in the draft law. In short, the proposer foresees that the Commission will have very large powers, which, under the Law on State Administration, belong to the Ministry or State Administration. This is something that may be contrary to the principle of legal protection, since, according to the proposal, a commission that is not a national authority can, for example, take certain measures to restrict the use of their property by the owner of the land where the remains are to be located. But it's not clear who the owners can complain to. Let me point out something that I personally have been doing for 25 years in the field of culture, the most concerned and which I strongly oppose. This is a derogation from the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage. It is a provision in Article 9 of the law that the provisions of the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage do not apply when it comes to locations where the remains are located. I believe that this is a very harmful provision which can cause irreparable consequences to cultural heritage. By the way, the Cultural Heritage Protection Act was drafted by the government of Janez Janša and was adopted in early 2008; in the mandate of the SDS with its coalition, it had a majority in Parliament. So it's probably not some swindler of dark forces who would object to the funeral of the victims of the extrajudicial beatings. Article 3 of the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage, which is intended to be repealed by the proposal for a law, reads: "Archaeological remains are also matters related to graves established on the basis of the rules on war graves and by war, together with archaeological and natural contexts that have been underground or underwater for at least 50 years. Professionally identified and registered archaeological remains become an inheritance." The locations where the remains are located also contain other material that provides valuable information about the event itself, battle, execution, and similar. It is important that the archaeological method is carefully investigated to preserve the integrity of the context of the site. Also in order to ensure accuracy of information, what happened and how it actually happened, what happened – who were the dead, who were the executioners, who were the participants in the battle or so. The latter is indispensable to our past behavior. The very location of the find is, if its importance is determined by an archaeological profession, it can be declared a cultural monument or entered into a register of cultural heritage. This is under the responsibility of the Institute for the Protection of the Cultural Heritage of Slovenia and cannot be decided by the Commission for the Study of Hidden Cemeteries. These are, therefore, some of the shortcomings that I believe should be addressed in the next procedure in the proposal for a law if it is to be considered further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec has the word to prepare Mr. Jernej Vrtovec. Here you go, Mr. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u54	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. We do not support this proposal in the United Left because we believe that the law in force is actually better than the one proposed. With the new law, the so-called expert commission would have the authority to determine the place and the way to bury. We believe that there has already been too much abuse of the profession and civil society in organs, such as the Radio Television Council of Slovenia, for the most unprofessional and purely partying interests. The law should also clearly define national ceremonies; the markings should not in any way justify and magnify cooperation with Nazism. I strongly doubt that even the President of the Republic of Borut Pahor will meet these conditions, for example, in Kamnika Bistrica, which is to be visited at the opening. You're talking about the King's Army, about the homeland of May 1945, after even King Alexander II himself. formally urged troops to join the national liberation fight, and when the Western allies acknowledged Titus' forces as the only ally force, cynicism and revisionism were high. Or if we stay in Slovenia, how perverted it is to talk about the national army, even though the household was an auxiliary SS unit commanded by the SS General, and even swore twice to the Reich and Hitler, last but not least in January 1945. In the United Left, we are of the view that the old law is better than the proposed one and that certain technical matters concerning the recording and exploration of hidden graves could be settled by amending the old law. This does not mean that we think that the existing law is good. In 2009, Pahor's government added to the law the idea of a monument to the victims of all wars, which is also a kind of revisionism. In Slovenia there were two world wars in the previous century. In both wars, we also had our autonomous resistance movement. In the first, they were fighters for the northern border, as well as Yugoslav volunteers and rebels in the Austrian army, such as the famous Jewish victims. There were also many civilian casualties, Austrian repressions, dead pacifists and prisoners of war. What is the meaning of a common monument to someone who fell as a soldier in the hands of imperialism and to someone who fought against it. Slovenian soldiers fought not for their nation in the Austrian army, but for Austrian-German imperialism; not only on the Serbian and Russian fronts, but also on the front with Italy. What is the meaning of the common monument to patriots and partisans?Oh, my God! Some fought Nazism, others fought Nazis for Nazis. He's not here, and there can't be any common ground. Where the fifth is to set up a common monument for those who have been ostracized, betrayed, shot hostages and victims of these acts. It's like forcing someone into a grave with the greatest enemy. The tender documentation indicates somewhere that this monument will have a role similar to that of unknown soldiers in other capitals. It's a cruel deception. At the celebratory wall, there is eternal fire on the grave of an unknown hero, but it is clear that this hero is a Soviet soldier — a liberator. We also have a monument in Ljubljana to the Illyrian provinces, where the remains of an unknown French soldier are dead. In short, nowhere in the world will you find a monument to the victims of all odors in which you would completely erase the truth about why someone fought, in which you would wipe out the differences between the victim and the use. As much as a comment on the edge of our support for the old law. We do not support it because it would be good; but because the proposed is significantly worse and significantly more harmful.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr Jernej Vrtovec has the floor to prepare Mrs Marinka Levičar. Here you go, Mr. Gardener.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u56	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! All New Slovenia — Christian Democrats, all we wanted with the bill — is to bury the dead, murdered, regardless of which side they came from or came from, since we have heard many times today that it is a basic civilisation standard. Some through this debate, I'm sorry, I'm ashamed, you used this well-intentioned law to re-share. I am ashamed that we are not able to discuss what distinguishes humans and animals. Yes, if they were a normal country, they wouldn't need a law to regulate the burial. But we're sorry, colleagues and colleagues, we're not a normal country, and we need a law that regulates the funeral. What kind of people we are that we are not able to bury a fellow human being; that the spring may not pass, when the farmers go on the ice, without finding any sacrifice after the injustice of the slain. Ladies and gentlemen, do not use well-intentioned laws. In New Slovenia, as I have already said, we have prepared the law exclusively out of consciousness, as a technical law, to take a step forward towards bringing the nation together, to appease passion. And it is at this national assembly that we will be able to take a step further from our past mandates, whether we can take a step forward and adopt a law that allows, for the first time, a basic civilisation standard, and, secondly, a step further towards reconciliation. The reconciliation of the Slovenian nation, because a country, a nation that is not united, cannot succeed such a nation, the country cannot be advanced. As a member of Nova Slovenije, who participated in the 2004-2008 coalition, I am pouring ashes, because we have neglected this area at the expense of maintaining the coalition majority. Unfortunately and at the same time it is unfortunate that a decent burial for us, the basic civilisation standard was not a primary priority; we regret that in Novi Slovenija. That's why we have this marriage. Dear colleagues, let's be human! Let's support this law. A marriage that should not be shared, but, unfortunately, let us support this marriage, bury the dead, the murdered — and it will be easier for us. Not only to us, but also to our explorers, it will be easier for our country to overcome the daily obstacles. Thank you very much and a lot of wisdom in making decisions.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Ms. Marinka Levičar has the floor to prepare Dr. Milan Brglez. Here you go, Mrs. Lefty.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u58	Thank you very much for your word and a very nice greeting to everyone. From the proposal for an explanation of the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries, I have not found any concrete reasons why the War Cemetery Act, which was adopted in 2003 and amended in 2009, does not fulfil the basic purpose that NSIs want to achieve by means of the law they now propose to adopt, and by means of a reduced procedure. I also could not ascertain the legitimate reason for such a procedure. The applicants stress that the current War Cemetery Act is being implemented too slowly, as its implementation depends largely on the political will of each government to resolve this area and to provide money for that purpose. I fully agree with this, and I also think that this problem should have been resolved long ago. And speaking of financials. You yourself note that the implementation of this law would take between 500 and 700 000 euros a year without the assumption of how many years. So we'd need a lot of money. It's hard to predict how much, because you're telling yourself that you don't know how many years this law is supposed to be implemented. The implementation of the proposed law would certainly greatly undermine the identification of victims, as the law provides that DNA analysis is carried out on postmortem remains wherever possible and on living relatives and that DNA samples have been stored for 50 years. Where should the country take that kind of extra money? You don't say that. The law should be prepared in such a way as to make its implementation as cheap as possible and to achieve its basic purpose. I must certainly stress that I am also advocating a fivefold attitude towards the dead, and I think that a decent burial of all the victims of the Second World War massacres should be done long ago. But I see no reason to adopt a new law for this reason, because in my opinion this allows us to do so now, with appropriate innovations. I think that the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities is ready to do this and that it already has solutions, the concept of these solutions. Yesterday, the Prime Minister stressed to Mrs Ludmila Novak's question yesterday that we all want a decent burial and a pathetic attitude towards the dead, so I hope that this will happen as soon as possible; and after the law is now in force. I have something else to highlight from today's debate. The majority of the debates I have heard today suggest that this law will very much separate Members, as well as our citizens and citizens. In his introductory address, Mr Tonin marked the presentation of the position of the United Left Group on hate speech. This already indicates that the proposaler himself has been so determined or that he shares our citizens and our Members. [[advertising from the hall]] That's what I think. In my opinion, it is an hate speech, if I understand it now, as I understand it, but the hate speech for me was even more the speech of Ambassador Eva Irgle, while I think that the hate speech of Ambassador Violet Tomić was not. When Mr Grims spoke about the red star, what the red star symbolizes, I strongly disagree with that and I think that this side of Parliament does not agree. With this debate you have shown again how we are separated, this side thinks otherwise than your side thinks. Therefore, I think that the solution now is what will emerge from this law, in the middle – on the SMC party, what they will decide. What will be the fate of this law be in their hands now, because this side knows how it will decide; and you also know how you will be. Now the question is just SMC, how will SMC decide? I think it would be very good if we decided not to continue to separate the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Ms. Ludmila Novak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u60	Well, Mrs Marinka Levičar, I would like to answer you why we have proposed a rapid procedure. It is so that we do not needlessly excite passions and ideological battles. I've been talking about specific things about how we solve the problem of burying the victims. Most others spoke ideologically, and we also did not want to discuss this issue precisely because we did not want to tarnish these victims and their relatives with our discussions; therefore we wanted a rapid procedure. As far as identification of the victims and DNA is concerned. Here it is meant that, in some tombs, it is assumed who should be in that cemetery; either there are witnesses to know about it; and there is an identification possible. In mass graves, identification may not be possible to a large extent. But it's about storing DNA samples, because we also need samples of relatives on the opposite side to compare and figure out; so it's about storing samples. But the analysis is done when you have other samples, relatives, and the likelihood of knowing who is supposed to be in a cemetery. Because I don't believe you'll all read Mr. Dezhman's letter to the Prime Minister, I'm only going to read one piece. Dr. Dežman is president of this Commission for Cemetery and says: "We were surprised by the position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, by which the existing War Cemetery Act should already deal with all matters related to recording, research, regulation and care for hidden graves. In our previous responses to the developments surrounding the preparation of the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the Burial of Victims, the Commission has pointed out the need to adopt a law that would regulate all those areas of covert graves that the existing law does not regulate or regulate so poorly that it is not possible to work in accordance with the standards of the developed world. The description of the work done so far does not appear to us to be an argument to justify the disapproval of the proposed Law on Hidden Cemetery and the Burial of the Victims. Everything in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has been done with extreme and particularly unnecessary effort, precisely because of the confusion in the current War Cemetery Act. Most of the work was done in the years 2000-2008 and after entering the trench of St. Barbara in the Huda Jami on 3 March 2009, a systemic blockade of all possible works began, since the 2003 War Cemetery Act did not provide for a topographical recording of more than 600 hidden graves and seas by 2009. As a result of this blockade, more than 100 on newly identified hidden seas and cemeteries are neither topographically processed nor recorded in official records." And so on. And then this commission calls on the government to support this law so that they can work.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Dr. Milan Brglez has the floor. Get Mrs. Anja Bah Gibert ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to draw your attention to a few things. The first and the main is the one that I told Parliament once before what actually happened after the war. That classification or qualification of this act is the only possible crime against humanity. There is no way we can talk about genocide because we had not yet adopted the Convention in force. This Convention also does not apply as such to the so-called Class Enemy if we want to understand anyone under this classification in any way. Why is it so important to stress this — because if we use that word in any case, let us evaluate it. Genocid is a crime of all crimes and it is important to be very careful when we use that word, for whom we use it, in what case we use it. At least in modern politics, it is very clear that I should say two such cases. The moment American President Bush began to talk about human security, this concept lost its meaning. The moment Russian President Putin began to talk about responsible protection as an assumption of why they occupied Crimea, he also lost importance. We need to be very careful about what words mean, because words are the ones through which politics actually operates; and with these legal tummas, which are of some importance, we need to be very careful. Secondly, what I absolutely agree with — and I have repeatedly expressed this in my speeches — is that we must bury our dead because we are human; that is the basic definition, as I understand it. Why is one more important fact? Yes, similar things have happened to us since the war. But with us, those who did so felt the need to hide it and not to talk about it. That's the part about knowing something was wrong. How do we define this, how do we not define it, is another issue. And the fact that we're talking about this is the real fact; even because of such things, in those speeches where I was speaking, I had to define myself in this way. What is important is that I also see the adoption of this law basically as a symbolic step, which will only be possible if there is no legal abuse or further politicisation. Because once it comes to it, it's really hard to go through the whole thing. I estimate that in our political space, according to what it is, let's say your SDS champion wrote under those seven basic points that this moment is a consensus of four and a half. I will read these four and a half, to where this consensus belongs, this is from yesterday's mint of NOB; a matter that has been proposed a long time ago, but is now in. The basic is: "The occupation was the foundation of all evil. Without it, there would be no war, no revolution, no collaboration, no postwar beatings." We can all agree on that. Second: "Resistance against the invader was an honorable act." Everyone will agree, no problem at all. Then two skip because these two ideologically share this space; and I, as a representative of the National Assembly, have to take this into account, even when I speak. This explains why speeches are like those when they talk about these matters. Then comes the next one, which is indisputable: "Collaboration with the invader was an act of rejection." Yeah. The next thing I think we should do is not share us again, and it's essential for this thing that we have today: "The double and postwar killings of prisoners of war and civilians were crimes, no matter who found them out." We can absolutely agree here. And then the first part, because the last part that talks about collective responsibility would probably go too far and make a lot of people feel attacked again as an organization. And this first part of the seventh point: "The individuals had their personal reasons and responsibilities within a tragic act during and after the war. Therefore, the individual guilt and responsibility of each person must be judged individually." To this end, our consensus is likely to be reached, and to this end, what is most likely to be said in this political space as something that would represent this political space. I think we should focus on where we can do this and get out of here. But that includes admitting postwar beatings and burying our dead. It is part of this consensus, it is not outside the scope of this consensus; and this seems very important to me. However, it is also important that we actually politicise each other to take into account the contexts in which certain statements have been made. Let's say in the same one I looked at, I was listed myself, but always with the wrong last name, but it's a less important matter. More importantly, it was stated that I did not mention the genocide that happened in our country. Even if I look at my speech, there is still one piece I have dedicated to this, but it is necessary to know first that this speech has been addressed to the international public. As a representative of the National Assembly, I spoke to the international public. I did not speak to the Slovenian public, the address for the Slovenian public was on the occasion of the 70th anniversary of the liberation. And in this talk, there is only one short matter that is important and talks about Slovenia. And that is: "We must finally clear ourselves, within ourselves and among ourselves, before we value what has happened and what is happening elsewhere. In doing so, make sure that politicization does not violate the memory and the duty to speak." This was the message, that is, certainly the awareness that something happened after the war; and that is also why we need to be very careful about whom in this world and why we actually condemn. Nevertheless, I certainly agree with the proposal of the law, I consider it a symbolic contribution, but if this symbolic contribution separates it more than anything else, I will face the great dilemma of what I will end up pressing — for or against. But certainly I am in favour of burying our dead; and if this law can minimally contribute to this, it is the right step. But there will be a lot of steps to be taken because I do not consider peace to be a state, but a way of life that must be constantly refreshed. We have steps, and even if we talk about the matter as a condition, it is virtually impossible. Matter of fact, reconciliation is a process, most of it is in this process. I hope that over the years this matter will be easier, but over the years, the pain of the relatives will probably not be less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert has the floor to prepare Mr Marko Ferluga. Here you go, Mrs. Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u64	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Let me at least partially relate to my predecessor at some point. Personally, I think it's actually a problem until we admit everything. Your colleague, the President of the National Assembly and the Member of Parliament, has somehow outlined some of the points contained in this text. Whatever your position, I really advise you all to read it yourself. But, you know, as long as there's a problem, we're not going anywhere, and we can't make any laws. As long as the use of armed resistance against the occupying power that this was an act of rejection is a problem, we will not go far. And to present the problem of self-defence and resistance to revolutionary violence, of being a legitimate act and of being a problem today, we will not go far. And so on. But let me connect my performance to my family's story today. Perhaps it will be easier because in some ways it will be logical, why today the decision I have or my relationship with the proposed law. My father was born in 1942 in Styria, so during the war. The family had a nice farm, they even had a mill. As a three - month - old child, he was taken along with only a few years - old brothers and sisters to a German camp. His father or my grandfather was taken to the National Socialist concentration camp Dachau. My grandmother was taken as a mother by four children to the Celje Old Writer and shot. The real reasons are unknown. As a mother of a baby — a two - month - old baby — and three entirely small children were to act against the invader. Upon returning home, the household where they had lived before was torn apart, much destroyed and estranged, you will not believe where they had seen their own things. But it was not possible to compare this with the fact that the children and the husband were without a mother and a wife. The postwar authorities then took away the cow, which was a source of survival for these young children. They sat on the hill when they watched the authorities drive or take what meant food to them. But somehow they got through. They never knew where the mother’s grave was, but her name was found on monuments in the home congregation and also in Gradac. Her name is on the family grave today. It's where we light candles all the time. After that, she was named after a village elementary school. My father never knew his mother. As a result, I didn't know my grandmother. I'm proud to have her name. The fact is, he survived in a German camp only because he was assisted there by the good Slovenian hand of the employee who worked in this camp was Slovenka. Throughout his life, he was led by an unconscious memory and the fact that he was loved and had nothing to be ashamed of. What's that? He was a child of a Slovenian mother who was taken from him by a cruel war. You know, this is my father's case. It is quite different from the case or life of his peers who found themselves in the postwar camp of Petriček after being taken away from the postwar concentration camp of Teharje. The children were taken there by their mothers. They are also children of Slovenian mothers, Slovenian families. Their mothers were not taken by war, but they were taken by a bloody revolution after it. And their mothers, the bodies of their mothers lie scattered literally across Slovenian soil. It's the power to find them on different killing sites, but some we know, some we don't. Their mothers don't have graves because they were dehumanized. Children had to remain silent, deny, and be ashamed of their existence. They humiliated their names, for they believed only what they were taught. Some children had different names throughout their lives, but they were not allowed to give them the name their parents gave them because they simply could not be. And unfortunately, your honor, there can't be any today either. You won't believe how life is hidden, we also knew the person who was one of these children, and her life trauma cannot be described. Colleagues and colleagues, some of you turn your eyes when I say this; I sincerely hope that I'm more open-eyed than that. For what we are talking about today cannot change any law. We're talking about things that go beyond politics. The right to grave is one of the foundations of human dignity. It's the fifth memory of the dead. It's our basic human duty. In 2003, when the National Assembly adopted a similar law, the late Dr. Andrej Bajuk said: "With laws there is no substitute for spiritual acts such as national reconciliation." At that time, Nova Slovenija, together with the SDS, obstructed the meeting because we did not want to participate in the adoption of that law. As he was right, the fact is that today, more than ten years after that, we are facing the same civil dilemma. Nothing has changed in the same deepest view. At that time, the law was passed, and today we have a new one. Unfortunately, we are witnessing a growing genocide and acquittal to crimes. They were real, they were wrong, and so on. The unhealed wound of our people in this way will never be healed, nor will it be able to heal. I fully believe, I truly believe, that the intention of the New Slovenia colleagues' bill was good; but, as it is said, we will not solve the fundamental civilisation issue with it. That's why he needs our company, which is why Slovenia needs a human face. Only then will we be able to break the barriers and take a step into the future. The wounds, respected, will heal when all those like my father, who, as I told him, my mother, took away my grandmother's war or occupation, as well as his peers, who were taken by the revolution, can finally light candles on their parents' graves. And they will not walk past the monuments and walk the streets, bearing the name of the revolutionaries who brutally murdered those parents. Until then, there will be no reconciliation, and until then every law will be superfluous. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Ferluga has the floor to prepare Mr Janko Weber. Here you go, Mr. Ferruga.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. From today's debate it is clear that it is very ideological and politically coloured. As "newly arrived" in this National Assembly, we imagine this debate slightly differently. Why am I saying this? Daily policy has been fueling and plentiful with this topic for many years, we have heard this already today and it is likely to continue in the future. In fact, we do not learn from it or want to learn from it. In addition, citizens are being poisoned or powered by this, which I do not think is good for the future of Slovenia. What's all this about? First of all, we cannot afford sufficient political wisdom on our own – within Parliament and within political parties. Each one is drawn to one’s own side, each being somewhat discolored with various things, but in fact we do not listen to history or history. As we know, history is the mother of wisdom; and unfortunately we learn nothing from it. Another point is that even time distance does not help us to clearly define, define and clearly place these historical moments. I wouldn't go into a historic debate right now, because then they start cracking down on their opinions. I want to say that I see three things as a solution to all this. The first is tolerance, the second is deviation from ideology, and the third is the political consensus and political wisdom that we should have here. In my personal opinion, I think we already have a bunch of laws – and all these laws with some new, additional laws actually do not allow for some transparency. From my point of view, it would be wiser to make the existing law so transparent, operational and actually functioning. However, if we look at and feel that a previous law needs to be corrected by making a new law, we will lose out on transparency. I am very much fighting this, but I would like some structured legislation that is transparent, clear and also has its responsibilities. And if we talk about whether this legislation will make up for it. I'm sure she won't. Will the monuments make peace? I'm sure they won't. All of us here, historians and professionals should be working on speaking with facts, not operating with some flat-rate or torn-out historical events that actually undermine some stability of the nation. We must somehow come to this point in order to settle this matter in a dignified manner, which is what we all agree on here, and then continue in the future. Because this running from the past back to the future doesn't lead to anything. There is no future and we poison all the generations that are behind us. We have to put an end to this one time, a dot, a cross, a monument, whatever it takes to end this matter. To do as we all wish in a pathetic and dignified manner. That's it. Finally, let me say this: It seems to me that as a Christian country, we should also be forgiving Christianly, at least after these long years. I think it's about time we started to really forgive this and start a new future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber has the floor to prepare Mrs Anita Kolesh. Here you go, Mr. Webber.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u68	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! Nevertheless, it seems to me that it should be said in the introduction that this is the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the burial of victims, which was submitted to the National Assembly by Members and Members of the New Slovenia, in particular to form a commission with a completely independent status, an independent status, and to provide money for the functioning of this Commission and also for all the activities that this Commission then carries out. It must be said that this Commission does not have a clearly defined legal status in this law. The fact is that it has greater powers than, say, the Ministry responsible for the management of military graves or even greater powers than the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. These are facts that we cannot pass in the National Assembly, for a law that does not respect the hierarchy of legislation or our legal order is, of course, impossible to adopt or support. That's the basic reason why this law is in the process. The funds allocated to the Commission are up to €700,000 annually. This is the difference, the important difference between the War Cemetery Act that is already in force and we have accepted it precisely because this area is properly regulated; and before that, the War Violence Victims Act has been passed, so that it was really very much done on this topic. But I think that everyone or to a large extent today can again agree that we face again the way this subject — the burial of the dead — is being exploited for political purposes. That's what happens when you put the law into the procedure of the National Assembly. This is a political issue, and this is a bad one, as is the case when the postwar period is assessed through political eyes as well as the war itself and today. So let me remind you briefly of when we decided on the plebiscite in 1990 that Slovenia would become an independent and independent state, then we all truly thought and voted in favour of this decision. A very large majority, 95% of all those who came to the polls, made that decision. And I think that I can also make it clear that at the time, the decision was truly honest and was not related to any corruption, was not related to any benefit, was not related to any interest in money being made to resolve its status or anything like that. And that is why we have also proposed that the holiday of independence be renamed the day of independence and unity precisely because that unity was so demonstrated at the time. To a large extent, I can say that at that time the Slovenians took such a big step that other nations in their history certainly did not when we made that decision. And that's when we made this important decision so that we can trust each other. This relationship was already very well exposed at the time, since it was already held in Kočevská Rogo a fair ceremony, at which time the archbishop of Dr. Alojzi Šuštar and the then President of the Presidency Milan Kučan also reached into the hands of the Archbishop of Alojziy Šuštar, and the then President of the Presidency Milan Kučan; which was very clearly shown that there is a great interest among all of us in Slovenia, that this reconciliation is done and that we are going along with the forces. In his statements, Dr. Aloysius Schuštar said that he had been reminded of this over and over again. And he himself said that it was very important to show this pie, this respect for the dead; and that reconciliation with the dead was already made. For the reconciliation of the living, every individual, every individual, will have to make an effort to make peace with the living. Here I agree with all those who have warned about this, because what has happened cannot be changed. Each one will wear it within himself, and it is up to each individual to see his neighbor, his neighbor, his fellow citizen. However, as I said, we were all ready to go beyond that and we have already gone beyond that in 1990. What a terrible consequence the events of World War II have had – perhaps you could read just one piece by Italian General Ruggero in 1942: "I will tell you honestly what I think about MVAC." This is the Italian military police, which was made up of Slovenian belogardists. "I am not Slovenian, but this is how I look at Slovenians and their struggle. MVAC helps Italians a lot, but among you Slovenians makes such hatred that you will not have to eliminate it for 50 years," Ljubljana's Bishop Rožman warned Italian General Ruggero in the fall of 1942. Yeah, that's how far those things went back then. And in 1990, we went beyond that. And remember that we are able to overcome this even during this period. Opening up such topics certainly does not help us to discuss our future and what needs to be done to overcome global financial interests as well as other tycoon interests, corruption interests. These are now the problems we have to solve in Slovenia, but unfortunately we do not solve them effectively enough; also because we are always trying to return not 50 years ago, as announced by Italian General Ruggero, but even 70 years ago. And this is what needs to be overcome as soon as possible and to enable the laws we have adopted to be implemented at the level and extent that, of course, it is also physically possible to implement them according to the extent and capacity of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mrs Anita Kolesh has the floor to prepare Mr Andrej Chuš. Here you go, Mrs. Kolesh.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u70	Mr Vice-President, the esteemed meeting of the National Assembly! All the political parties of this Parliament have promised our citizens to act in the interest of improving the social situation. And to that end, we have made available as a legislative body the tool to adopt the legislation that follows this. The serious purpose of such an opposition party is manifesting itself in readiness to negotiate with the parliamentary majority. It is therefore important to stress the satisfaction of the steps taken by the New Slovenia – Christian Democrats – since the proposal for a law was not only put into the adoption procedure but rather wanted to consult and present it well to the parliamentary groups on the content of the proposed provisions of the law. Such cooperation in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre is presented as the most effective and country-based way of working with the opposition. We have already worked and successfully completed certain projects in this House. I hope that we are also on the right track this time, because there is no question as to whether the purpose and purpose of this introduced law, i.e. the comprehensive regulation of the area of hidden war graves for all victims of war and post-war violence, is good. Of course you are. No one in this country may and may not care that the relatives of the buried victims of post-war beatings take to crime scenes instead of to a place of peace and tranquillity. Every man deserves a grave and a right to treat his mortal remains with dignity. And if I believe in the well-intention of the legislator in 2003, once our country wanted to solve this ethical and healthy reasonable issue with the War Cemetery Act. It may not give true answers to all the demands and purposes, the purposes of the law; however, it must be said that this law also defines the right to a decent burial, the legal basis for work in the area of detection of hidden war graves, the entry of hidden war graves into the register, the provision of the possibility of identifying the victims of these graves and then their worthy burial and the marking of the cemetery. Without the law, there would be no activity that we have heard today related to the regulation of war and hidden postwar cemeteries. Clearly, therefore, it is the most true conclusion made clear by the proposaler that even after the adoption of the law there was insufficient political will to regulate the situation. This political will, in particular, means that sufficient resources and assurance or commitment of sufficient human resources have been provided to regulate the area of the detection and management of war graves. Let us accept the argument that this is not true and a new law must be adopted, but only on the basis of professional arguments, the answers that the new law is significantly more operational in this respect. You all claim that this is just a technical law. If that is the case, we must fully clarify the dilemmas that we have already heard here and, above all, have been well presented by my colleagues. They were also presented on the way to entering the law into the procedure. Otherwise, my dear colleagues and colleagues, we will only get another dead marriage act and we will, as Mrs Hribar says, again for someone who knows how long we will postpone the debt we have to the dead and continue to allow the extension of the past on the basis of manipulation with them. So let us respectfully bury the dead and enjoy life.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr Andrej Cuz has the floor to prepare Mr Matjaž Hanžek. Mr. Hear, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u72	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much for your words. At the beginning of this debate, which has been going on for several hours, let me say that I am fully in favour of every effort by individuals and policy to reconcile and appease the passions which unfortunately currently prevail in the Slovenian political space. Unfortunately, in the past and in the time until independence, we have never succeeded in efforts for reconciliation, and this painful chapter of Slovenian history reminds us today and hurts us. I believe that all individuals, citizens and citizens should work towards reconciliation, and that we Members should also be examples, civil society and all other social events. Unfortunately, a few days ago, weeks ago, we again saw a huge celebration, but I do believe that they did not have some positive steps towards reconciliation. I even estimate that it was again an attempt to provoke and toss sand into the eyes paid by all taxpayers and taxpayers. Talking about the past is not easy, it is also very sensitive, even to me as a young individual, but they say that history is mainly written by winners. I also became convinced of the reality of this river when I watched various confrontations and public stands on television in recent times when more than just one or two historians magnified the revolution that took place during and after World War II. And in this place it is right to have a normal future, an unburdened future for young people and future generations, so that we all together make a clear demand that we want objective history. As regards the legal proposal tabled by the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors, I would also like to say that, in the course of the public debate already in preparation of the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the Burial of Victims, the Commission itself of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has pointed out the need to adopt a law that would regulate all those areas of covert graves that the existing legislation does not regulate, or regulates them so flawedly that it is not possible to work in accordance with the standards of the developed world at all. The reference to the work done so far does not appear to the Commission to be an argument justifying the Government's disapproval of the proposed Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the burial of victims. Everything in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has been done with extreme and particularly unnecessary effort, precisely because of the confusion in the current War Cemetery Act. Most of the work was done between 2000 and 2008. After entering the trench of St. Barbara in the Hudi Jami on 3 March 2009, a systemic blockade of all possible tasks began. Since the 2003 War Cemetery Act did not foresee that we will record more than 600 hidden seas and graves in Slovenia by 2009 topographically. As a result of this blockade, more than 100 newly identified hidden seas and graves are neither topographically processed nor recorded in official records. And we consider ourselves a normal European developed democracy. I think we're still missing something. It is also noted that, as a result of many changes, the amendment of the existing War Cemetery Act is not possible, but a new law should be adopted by the government. We're probably not capable of that at this point. In doing so, I would also like to mention one of the last complications that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia puts forward in its opinion as a work that is running smoothly. The invitation to tender for the relocation of the remains of the Huda Jama into the inox cross was to be revoked and repeated because the Commission found that the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Tender Conditions had prepared completely incompatible with the expert recommendations of the Institute for Forensic Medicine and without agreement with Pivovarno Laška. Not to mention that the Commission has not been informed at all about the preparation of the invitation to tender. Of course, this also raises the question of who is doing so and making the work of the Commission of the Government difficult for hidden graves? Unfortunately, I cannot get rid of the feeling that this is politically motivated, but it is likely that there are a number of privileged people who are moralizing all Slovenes and Slovenes today and who are retiring early, who are regularly receiving benefits for which there is no basis, and who could still be listed. Slovenia is a country of double standards. At all events with us and various celebrations, to which I have also witnessed in the last days, I could say that Slovenia is a country — full of ideology and little bread. And as long as we're poisoned by this, until we clear this up, we'll get out of here, I'm afraid I don't see a perspective. Everyone can look at how people move out. At the same time, I would like to quote sociologist Tomšič, who said, also in connection with the debate in the National Assembly: "Increasing non-democratic regimes, justifying their practices and comparing opponents with traitors is an expression of thought which is by no means part of the developed world. Ironically, this is often done by those who consider themselves very advanced. The issuer is therefore anyone who advocates Western type regulation based on a market economy and a free private initiative. The traitor is now everyone who advocates Western values..."
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u73	Mr. Hear, just a moment, excuse me, but you can turn off the microphone, I'll give you my word in a few seconds. Your Honor, allow me to adjourn the debate for a moment. I welcome the President of the Ugandan Parliament, Rebecca Alitwal Kadaga, with delegation. / applause/ The delegation joined us at the gallery of the great hall, which is attending the International Conference of Africa Day, which is held in Ljubljana today and tomorrow. Dear President, welcome! Excellency, welcome in Slovenia. Mr. Hear, I'm sorry, we're continuing the session, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u74	It's no problem, otherwise it's a very unusual practice, but I'm not protesting.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u75	By the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u76	Let me continue with the quote. "The traitor is therefore anyone who advocates Western values and respects the rules of the European Union." And when today Mr. Prikl, as in the last few days, has been talking on television about how we should be proud of our past, I don't know what else, I would like to say the following: heroes have destroyed 90% of the archives about the heroic past. I wish that, like most countries of the European Union, we could all work together to reconcile and bury everything decently without provocation. Only then will we be able to say that we are a developed society. Until we do so, we will fight and provoke each year, in particular in May, instead of dealing with the future of the country, young people and future generations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u77	Thank you very much. If you'll excuse me, once again, explain that we have a Rules of Procedure that when foreign delegations arrive, we can suspend the meeting. But I asked Mr. Chusch to press so that he didn't run out of time. Okay, thank you very much. Mr. Franz Jurša has the floor to prepare Dr. Mitja Horvat. Here you go, Mr. Jursha.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u78	Vice President, thank you for your word. A beautiful greeting is valid for all who are in the hall! I will start this way – it was clear in the presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups and later discussions that we were again on two different shores today. Some stand on the left and others stand on the right, of course. And interestingly, when the lions speak, the right hands hold their head; but when the right hands speak, the lions hold their head. And with great dissatisfaction they accompany the debate or presentation of the debater’s position. I am primarily in favour of a five-year burial of all the dead in all wars, so that we can understand ourselves that I do not oppose such an act. In war, in my opinion, as well as what my parents said to me, who experienced the horrors of World War II, there is no winner or no one in this war gets. But it is true that there are in some way losers on the battlefield and winners on the battlefield. And I'm gonna say something personal. My father — despite his youth, 17 and so many years of age, since Hitler lost World War II — was violently mobilized into the German army. And when I was growing up, he said to me on occasion, "Franco, history is written by the winners. I'd like to add something to that to the storytellers. At the very least, it is designed by politicians who use it for daily political purposes; I personally strongly oppose it. You know, in every war, at any given time, you need to determine where you're going to work. And this decision is crucial. Why? Because later, if you define yourself correctly, you do not have to apologize, or that your sons and daughters or your grandchildren apologize, on your behalf, for what you have defined yourself. From my 1991 experience, I have to tell you that I've been looking for some solutions and records because if I ever have grandchildren, my grandkids won't ask me where, Grandpa, you were in 1991. Where I was supposed to be, and I played the role I was authorized to play back then. To refresh your memory, I will tell you an event that recently took place in the house of democracy, when some have proposed – who knows – a senior officer of the Slovenian Armed Forces for the higher rank. How we wondered at the time where the gentleman was on this day and this day. Perhaps he was affected by the fact that he could not have made a different decision at that time and that day; and it happened as it happened. So I stress that it's very important how you decide at a given time in a war where no one side gets one. With regard to the main concern about the current war graves law, I will say that the law we have in this area actually regulates certain matters; the proposed law before us requires quite a few corrections. During the debate, it was heard that an amendment must be written on each article. It is said that we will have to go a few more steps to adopt this law as we need to. Now I'm not going to say that the financial consequences are negligible. It's about money we don't have right now, and I'd say it would be necessary to find it. I also agree to this to some extent. But personally, I think that maybe we could do this piet in a simpler way so that we don't do all the DNA tests because it's a question of how many of them there will be, because they can't be predicted in advance. I think they're also relatively very expensive. The current War Cemetery Act is not problematic by content, but by the failure of the competent authorities to implement it. And the competent authorities should do this, not get the last day of the debate of the President of the Commission on what the problem is. The President of the Commission should have written this problem to us earlier so that we may be able to prepare ourselves more thoroughly for today's parliamentary session through his letter. I must say that the government's position is also relatively very, under the terms of "feeling sorry". Perhaps it should be a little more specific and clearly defined. The Government considers that the law must be examined in terms of a systemic legal aspect and that it would not be more appropriate for the objectives and purpose of the bill to be made by amending the law already in force. I talked about this, if this law were to be respected in some way and officials would consistently implement this law, then they would probably have significantly better results and probably not have come up with a proposal prepared by New Slovenia. Even though some of our Members and Members of Parliament had discussed their heads, Desus also discussed – in a way, we all have a heart in one place and you cannot understand things like that. It's a democracy to coordinate positions. And I am in favour of coordinating them, ladies and gentlemen from that side. Then we will come up with better, better and longer-term solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Dr. Mitja Horvat has the word to prepare Mrs. Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u80	Thank you very much, chairman, for your word. Dear Members and Members! I think it's time to take a look at what's in the document that's before us and about which today's debate is about. When I look at the reasons for the adoption of the law, I read that "the current War Cemetery Act is being implemented too slowly, as its implementation depends to a large extent on the political will of each government to resolve this area, as well as on the provision of funds for this purpose." I think we are in rather unusual practice if a law is being implemented too slowly, that a new law should be adopted. I do not know how this will speed up the implementation of the current law if we adopt a new law. This is my first logical puzzle I've ever had with the material I've presented. In practice, too, it should be difficult to register war graves. Other comparable countries, which do not have this number of undiscovered hidden war graves caused by postwar killings, have so far done so largely. This also obliges us as a nation to complete the chapter of past history by burying all the victims, marking their graves, and remembering them. Comparable countries – it is more than obvious that it is difficult to compare with countries that are listed as analogue countries: Italy, Germany, Estonia. The closest thing to what is happening to us is Spain, an interesting one that is not included among comparable countries, because the situation is slightly reversed from ours; however, it is the same questions – questions of covering up graves. Their solutions are interesting and we have already alerted the proposer. I think it is important to note this and also to note how rescues, detections and insurance are being pursued, especially the decent treatment of what these cemeteries are hiding in themselves. I also miss that, in today's debate, someone would be engaged in and debated on the objectives of the law. The purpose of the proposed Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the Burial of Victims is to fully regulate the area of hidden war graves for all victims — not only Slovenes, but all — of war and post-war violence, which will guarantee to all fallen the right to a decent burial, to mark the grave or burial place and to remember them. The bill regulates the legal basis for further work in the area of detection of hidden war graves and their entry into the register of war graves, identification of the victims in these graves and then their worthy burial and marking of the grave or burial site. The area of the regulation of war graves, including hidden war graves, created in particular after the end of World War II, is legislatively approaching regulations such as those of other EU Member States. There is no reconciliation in these objectives, there is no genocide in these objectives, there is no question of judgements and convictions. As far as I understand the proposal for a law, consciously or unconsciously, this question will be said by the motioners themselves, avoided. Connecting hidden graves to reconciliation is possible, of course, but it is a construct. As Mr Zoré said, reconciliation is a process – not a single act. What I read about the debate and what is happening in society is that it wants to get the issue out of the agenda with a single act or with some action. When we talk about reconciliation, then we will talk first about the issue of recognition that something has happened, then also about finding the truth, what has happened, and finally with some symbolic act of reconciliation, more reconciliation, at least two sides, then also done as a symbolic act. I miss all of this in this law; however, it is always present in the debate in society. In principle, I also do not find what the debaters are discussing to follow the basic civilisation principle that every human being has the right to a decent burial, to a grave and to a memory. The issue of forgiveness was also raised today. To all those interested in this interesting subject, I can suggest that on the significant page of 1914 the actual index of the Bible of the Old and New Testament, the standard translation from the original languages published by the Slovenian Bible Society in Ljubljana in 2011, you will find an interesting reference to what forgiveness means and to whom it is intended. In this regard, I recommend a little more careful treatment. What exactly are we dealing with? Apparently, with a variety of fears, I warn you, in various cases, when different issues are addressed in this national assembly several times. We're dealing with fear again. We are concerned with the fears of those who have had to remain silent for decades; we are concerned with the fears of those who have benefited from this silence. Therefore, if we go into these processes, it is likely that what is proposed will not be enough and that the objectives of this law, as proposed, are not likely to be achieved. But it is necessary to communicate honestly in society, and therefore, as I announced at the outset, I look forward to today's debate, I look forward to the arguments why this issue, which divides us, must be removed from the agenda of this society. Not to clean up, put it under the rug, but to deal with it. Not by symbolic single acts and, of course, by my hint, not by overlying what has passed; but by dealing with the current problems of people who are victims, not only those who are in hidden graves, which this law is intended for, and their decent burial, it is a minimum, but by being able to join this society without a label. I will not name them, because, of course, everyone knows what labels have stuck to the descendants of these victims, with whom they must live today and with whom they must do themselves, because in space we do not offer them the opportunity to talk about them, as we have already heard a story, because stories are inherent to politicians. The stories are here to knock on people's feelings, to crush them and open their hearts so people can accept messages. When these stories are true, they are so much more moving, so much more convincing. But it is very embarrassing to use stories that do not fit the truth, so the first and basic condition is that we discuss things honestly. And that is why I miss all the debate, too, giving me more and more arguments that the feeling is right – the question whether this law is really about the sincere purpose of what is being written as a goal; what I miss, as I have already said in the informal talks, particularly in Article 1, also in Article 2, to clearly define the purpose of this law. For above us there is a distressing feeling that there is also a very important reason for a lot of budget money. This is concern, this is fear, I hope that you will be able to remove it from this space so that we can move on unladenly. Well, it's been said before, according to our data, it costs one DNA analysis from 200 to 900, and very different numbers are circulating. We do not know anything about how much such a commission, which has the broadest powers, which itself determines what it will do, the work programme; and, as we have found, will also commit the government, the minister, the director-general of the Directorates at the present moment and the question of who we are next, because it is very descriptive because it is never known, there can also be a change of competence for the issues that are before us today and which we are dealing with. 500 to 700 000 euros for not being able to look honestly at the problem in the face and because we cannot make any further efforts to remove the obstacles that the applicant is talking about; and he obviously had to make an extreme attempt to propose a law to be implemented, as it was written at the beginning of the law. I think we need to make an effort in this society to make sure that the competent authorities that are enforcing the laws that are before us change their content to change them or complement them in order to achieve the ultimate purpose. But today I have not heard what the purpose of this law really is. The reconciliation that has been used is an important issue, but I do not see in this law that the aim is to achieve reconciliation. And so please also, let's avoid questions about what we're going to do with the perpetrators, it's a matter of other organs, not a question of piete, of dignity, of burying all the victims. But it is very important that we recognize whether these victims even exist and that we do everything in our power to treat with dignity what we find in hidden graves. My personal pain, the method must be respected. We have informed the applicant that we have expert articles on how to deal with it. We really strive to respect archaeological methods just because we treat mortal remains with dignity. I don't know if there's a way to probe, and I'm not going to say it either, so I'm not going to be too much. [[sign for the end of the debate]] You know how to probe. [[…]] I have a serious reservation on my own whether this probe is today a decent treatment of the postmortem remains of victims of post-war beatings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Proposer, Mrs. Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u82	In many ways, I have to agree with Mr Horvato. Today's debate is about all kinds of things, just not about the victims or the burial of the victims. We wanted to prepare only tools to help make these burials easier to implement. I miss this fifth to the dead, to their relatives, to the mourners. Indeed, every one of his stories, every one of his pains, every one of his understanding of history, do not have in mind those who were the victims of the one we want to bury. Our goal was to meet everyone in the beginning — see what needs to be improved, how we need to improve. When you mention the archaeological profession, let me say that the members of the commission have pointed us out that it is quite pitiless to say that 50 years later the remains of these victims are an archaeological find and that is why we must deal with this under archaeological laws. But according to forensic rules, the rules and so on, which was also praised in international symposiums as an example of a good way to treat these victims or after-death remains; and therefore we need to know that there can also be a source of earnings or an opportunity when the victims' remains have to be treated in some way that makes it more difficult, even more costs, but not easier to work.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic has the floor to prepare Mr Jan Mahnic. Here you go, Mrs. Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I have listened to today's debates and doubts about the real purpose in this country, that we have a real intention to reach reconciliation in this country either by proposing or by New Slovenia. It seems to me that there was also talk of open hearts in our society. It seems to me that if all of us had open hearts, we would feel the intention of New Slovenia to take an important step towards a device in this country, when all of us have been holding our heads in the sand for 25 years, even in this independent country. With us in Notranjska, where I come from, practically every house, every house, at least one family member lying in a hidden cemetery. How do I explain to these relatives that the country does not manage this area?Oh, my God! How can I explain that it is impossible whether he fell on the side of the winners or the losers? Because, as has already been said and also in the sermon of the Archbishop, the armies passed by and the ones who came first picked them up in the villages. There were many who were on the side of the winners, and they saw what was going on, and then they returned home, and everyone there would have voted in their lives, and then they decided one way or another — some fled across the border, some hid virtually all their lives, and were quiet. And those who believed and who were true patriots did not matter on which side, and if they were on the wrong side, were marked, including their children, their widows, their families, their descendants. In this National Assembly, I am one of the younger generations, and I am pleased to find that many of them are my age. I thought when I decided on this profession or this mission, that together we would be able to take one step further in order to say yes, indeed, people are also lying in the ditches. That's a fact. Let's give them a chance to go to the grave, give them a chance to light a candle, because all of us who are descendants of such victims have a piece of their ribs. I'm surprised I'm still labeled and less valuable in this country. Why? Because of some ideology that happened before 70. It's flying?Oh, my God! But we're a middle generation, 40 years old, because I think we can take this step forward. I can tell you, my old dad is lying in a nearby village in Rakov Škocjan. The oral tradition speaks of this — not lying alone, but several other men who lost their lives at the age of 33. Who do you want me to give this oral source to? Who do you want me to tell that we've known for 70 years that he's been lying in Rakov Škocjan? The Ministry of Labour as the highest authority in this country, which does not even have adequate human resources, resources to cover this area in its entirety. I'll read part of the sermon quote. "For when one part of Europe celebrated peace and freedom, the other part of Europe put on black routes and quiet, secretly encroaching on the mutilated." This is a quote from Archbishop Zoret in his sermon. Yeah, that's right. That's what happened. My old mother shouldn't have grieved. Four times a year, she could've put on a black route before the quarter of Saturday. These are true stories, and I want nothing more than to let our children, who are descendants, know about graves and light a candle on them. I don't light a candle at our grave, I go to Rakov Škocjan, where this crime is supposed to happen or whatever, someone will be manipulating words right now. I want to allow this law to move forward one step. I am sure that the time has come when, as I said, we have been called into our mission, even in the National Assembly, to take a step forward. And another quote from that sermon strongly urges me how is it possible that we forgave the Germans and Italians almost three quarters of a century after the end of World War II and not our brother? In a normal country, they say it's normal, but like everything else we see, it's not. Therefore, I sincerely hope, and I just want to see that our proposal for a law is a step forward, that things are put in the right place in this country to start with important things. We don't have any objection, people have forgiven everything, just let us feel that piece of ribs, there's nothing else in this country. [[sign for the end of the debate]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Mahnic has the word to prepare himself for the Mag. Alenka Bratusek. Here you go, Mr. Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u86	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Despite the fact that this law is such and that this topic is such as to allow us to discuss for a long and wide period the very events that have taken place 70 years ago; if you want to discuss why we need such a law today, that we have so many dead people lying in the woods and everywhere else, I have decided not to discuss it, but to discuss strictly and only this law, these articles and the concerns that I have with regard to this law. We have already heard many times today that the existing law should not have acted to prevent it from being implemented. And it is reasonable to think, but who guarantees that this law will be implemented?Oh, my God! Who can guarantee that everything is going to happen the way it's supposed to? In Slovenia we have many laws, many quality laws, but they are not implemented among other things. Look at the four years we have, say, the Law on the Seizure of Unlawful Property; as I learned from the media, it has only occurred twice to confiscate illegal property. It's not being implemented, but everyone's talking about it. When I read this marriage, I remembered one of my favorite literary works — the Antigono. Antagonism represents all those ethical and moral standards that have created this law. As Antigua and her sister Ismena accompanied her blind father, Oydip, and when he died, her brothers Etheokel and Polyneek fought to take the throne after their father, who would become King of Thebes. And in this fight, they were both killed. Later, an uncle who became King, Kreon, forbade the burial of Polyneik. He said let the traitor lie before the wall, and we'll bury the defender of Etheokl. The Protestant felt that inner conscience and buried her brother, who was lying and falling apart before the wall. We know how it ended. The dead must be buried and given the right to a grave, regardless of who was on which side. Perhaps only the question and the main concerns that I have when we look at these articles seems to me already in Article 1 may be somewhat unfortunate when it says "a complete, worthy burial of all victims of war and post-war violence". To me, the word "complete" is superfluous because what kind of funeral could be different from the final?Oh, my God! A funeral is a funeral, but I agree that he must be worthy. In Article 2, I may have a bit of a problem with a few definitions. Hidden War Cemeteries – here the applicant marks as graves the victims of war and post-war violence or after war-torn persons in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia who were hidden after World War II. But then all the tombs are covered because all the tombs were hidden. And I do not see the need, as has already been said today, to name in particular the alleged war graves and the newly discovered war graves. If I move forward, Article 5: The Head of Directorate shall attend the meetings of the Commission and shall be responsible for the implementation of the conclusions of the Commission. Or rather earlier, because I missed Article 4. Article 4 – I am personally disturbed by the composition of the Commission. The Commission shall consist of nine members or members. I think we should specify exactly which of these nine members is who, rather than being too general, we should say – from the fields of different professions, historical, criminal, archaeological, anthropological, sociological and cultural heritage protection professions. I think we should define here either two historians or two archaeologists, anthropologists and so on. Three members are appointed from governmental and non-governmental organisations in the field of associations of victims of revolutionary violence. Again, what's the relationship? The government will appoint this commission; some will probably not like it if Mr Dežman is appointed on this committee; others will not like it if Mr Pirjevac is on this committee. Once again, it will be possible to accuse ourselves of what this commission is like and on which political side it is more inclined. Then in Article 5: The Head of Directorate shall attend the meetings of this Commission. As has already been said, the Ministry will be responsible for the work of this commission. And what bothers me here is that this chairman is in charge of achieving the conclusions of the commission; not the commission itself, but this chairman. In Article 6, group or individual identification, if possible. [[…]] How would I have imagined an approximation of this decent burial? It would have been to have all those relatives who have an interest in getting their loved ones, relatives, relatives to give their own DNA, to make a dig at these graves we have, to find out where it fits, those who are interested in burying themselves. For others, for whom no relatives of these slain are found, we bury them either in a civilian burial ground or in a morgue, as is further indicated to some extent. Then in Article 9: the Commission shall also inform the owners and holders of other real rights of the existence of an alleged war grave on their land and of the planned actions on their lands, provisional insurance and markings. Here comes my question again. "If proceedings are not carried out in accordance with the Criminal Procedure Act in relation to the alleged war grave, the Commission shall initiate or continue the procedure for the detection of the hidden grave in accordance with this Act." What is it like to intervene in ownership, for example, if someone does not agree that a probe is carried out on his land or any other activity? We know that property is a sacred thing with us, and it is just because we have a democracy based on private property. So I'm wondering what's the deal with ownership rights. "Sounding is also carried out in places where oral sources indicate a cemetery." What's going to happen to these oral resources? Will it be enough for someone to say that, or will it then be necessary to review written sources, or will we probe a larger number of locations? Which also bothers me very much, but it is in article 10, where it says: The transfer of the remains of the deceased is decided by the Commission if more relatives show an interest in taking over the remains of the deceased. Here I wonder if more relatives show an interest in taking over the remains of one skeleton or more skeletons, because I doubt that we want this committee to be a mediator among its own, if someone wants to bury it, someone doesn't want to bury it. We know that there are also opinions of relatives that some do not want a burial, but they want only a memorial mark at the place where the individual was killed. Some want him buried in a family grave. Then in Article 11: The way of burying victims from a separate war cemetery is determined by the Commission. I'm interested in this, above all, on the basis of what criteria? I very much agree with the opinion of my predecessor, Dr. Mitje Horvat. I'm sure that's not the law on getting things done. If we want to, we can also talk in this House about reconciliation, including the truth that all the arguments, both of them, are on the table, some have already been highlighted by the President of the National Assembly. I advise you to read the article he mentioned, our President, Janez Janša. I don't think this law will bring about reconciliation. But he will bring what we need to bury the victims and then talk about getting away. Nor will any monument, for example, bring reconciliation, bother me at this monument, that it is placed in two pillars, as if a nation were divided. If we really want to illustrate reconciliation, the monument should be, for example, what I know, what pyramid at the beginning, then break up, then unite. Or some monument that's torn apart at first, that there's two towers, and then it comes together. I am that monument now, as I continue to imagine, going into an endlessly divided nation; but this is a matter of interpretation, it is not a matter of its law. I focused only on this law because this law is under consideration today. I hope that I will, I believe, also get the answers to these concerns and the questions I have, especially as regards what I have highlighted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Ms Ludmila Novak has the floor on behalf of the proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u88	I must say that I like that colleague Mahnic has focused on the marriage and I will be happy to respond to it. Who guarantees that this law will be implemented? No one can guarantee that. As I have pointed out many times, a good law is needed, money is needed, and political will is also needed. In this case, we wanted to improve the law on the basis of claims, testimony from members of the Commission who are specifically dealing with problems. We can have all possible concerns, suggestions, requests, demands here; but we have not worked on the ground, we have not specifically met with it, so I believe and trust this committee. When you were talking about definitions: a covert cemetery and so on, these are actually already definitions used in the War Cemetery Act. Because the War Cemetery Act regulates the subject after this tomb is already registered in the register and we do not terminate it because they exist and live side by side. We're talking about the law until the moment the tomb is recorded, until it's entered into the register and there's a decent burial. Further, the War Cemeteries Act regulates the subject, so the definitions are the same as in that law because they complement each other. The composition of the Commission, we have defined the composition of the Commission in terms of professional knowledge, says historian, archaeologist and so on; who will be the members of the Commission, and this will be appointed by the government. We're going to like it one time, we're not going to, one time they're going to do good, one maybe a little less good. But all things cannot be anticipated in any law. But every marriage can be abused and holes can be found and so on. When we're talking about oral sources, there's probably written resources. If we look at it, Germany even has that every organisation has to hand over every society's written resources if it has them, that's right. Oral resources, but these are witnesses who are still alive, and unfortunately there are fewer and fewer. Why does the commission decide if more relatives show interest? Because where you two are fighting, I'm not going to say that he's got a third profit; but someone has to make a decision. It often happens, even in families, that some bury someone there, others there — and someone has to make a decision. But if they do, the commission won't interfere. However, I agree and we have not claimed anywhere that this law will bring about reconciliation. Reconciliation is a process, but the burial of the victims must take place; and this can be one step on the way to the device.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Alenka Bratusek, Mr Mag. Matthew Tonin will consider what he can do in 15 seconds, and then it is Mr Matjaž German. Here you go, mag. Cousin.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u90	Thank you very much and thank you very much on my part to all who are present! I am sad that today you are using our half-time history to share people – yours and ours. We are all citizens of Slovenia and we all have the right to a beautiful life, to a beautiful future in this country. We who are here have even the responsibility to take our country and our people to a better future. We can't change history, but we can somehow get rid of it. At the last celebrations of the end of World War II, at the 70th anniversary of the end of World War II, there were many who said that reconciliation was needed, that this part of our history should actually be closed — people or politicians on the left and right. Today I am witnessing something completely different, both on the right and on the left. And in this way, respected colleagues and colleagues, we will never really finish these things and we will deal with our history for years and years. The law that stands before us today needs some repairs. He cited them in the opinion of our Group of Members, colleague Jani, and that is absolutely true. I'm not gonna do it again. Without these corrections, the law of our support would not or would never receive it. I cannot agree that 70 years after the end of the war, after the end of these events, you are constantly opening things that I believe are painful and hard to hear every day over and over again. Perhaps this law would not be necessary, perhaps certain things could be regulated in the existing law. But, hand to heart, colleagues and colleagues, it's not, and it won't be the first such marriage. A few laws, I remembered one that doesn't fit here after all, it's an organ law and a bank resolution fund. All or many of us have warned that this law is not necessary to resolve this in a system of laws — the Banking Act. And you, your well-respected colleagues in the coalition, have freely adopted a law that would not be required by many. However, it is likely that the correction, the addition to the existing law, would also make it possible to correct things. I also believe in the well-intentionedness of the applicants; however, when I presented the law in our parliamentary group, when my colleague Novakova came to represent this law, I proposed that we try to harmonise ourselves as much as possible before the introduction of the law and that as many groups as possible would be signed under the law. I think the adoption process itself would be much easier. There are words, there are actions. When we speak of the matter, there is many among us, or many of us are full of mouths; but when it comes to action, many will draw you back. There have been quite a few personal experiences here today, so I will also allow myself to do so. My grandfather, or old dad, as I told him, Max Bratusek was a partisan, fought in battle, was imprisoned in the Fugitives during World War II, I can say – a partisan with a soul and a body. He lived in Arclin, a small settlement, and through this settlement leads the road to Tehari. And long ago, when no one in our society ever talked about any sort of device, any post-war killings; he told me as a partisan that there were several people on this road leading to death, that children were involved and that it was wrong. And I agree, I've remembered that word very well. It really wasn't right. But, dear colleagues, what am I, Alenka, born 25 years after the war, to blame for what happened? What is behind this generation that lives today, what is behind this generation that comes after us? Nothing. We can't change history, whether we like it or not. I really want to stop using this part of our history for political purposes, using it to divide people into ours and yours. Let us do what is right for the dead to be buried with dignity, and let us finally start dealing with our future.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Tonin, have you considered it? Thank you very much, okay. I give my word to Mr Matjaž German, to prepare Dr. Vinko Gorenak. Here you go, Mr. German.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Chairman. Today is the day when we talk not only about our history, but about ourselves. Each one of us, or some of us today, has also told his own personal story, more or less of these stories are related to the tragic conclusion that we are now bearing the third, fourth, postwar generation as if we were to blame for it. History must be respected; it must be tried to understand. But only a handful will I add to mine: I come from Primorska, where he was twenty, twenty-five years old on the march that fascism, where he wrote everywhere Qui supplanted the soltanto Italiano. My grandparents were unable to learn Slovenian and grew up in this spirit. But let me tell you something, in 1943, part of our family, which belongs to Furlania, said the Italian branches, split; it wanted a large Italy. The second part of our family wanted a strong and large Yugoslavia, where Slovenian is spoken. With the year 1943, these contacts broke up. After my aunt died, when she died in a camp in Italy, this story continued for 68 years. In 2012 we concluded our family, we sat at the table and we got together – Italian and Slovenian branches, the same, the same families we settled, we did not talk about past actions; we each had our own pain, with the same goal of cutting it and doing the end. This is what our people need. After 70 years, we are not prepared to look ourselves in the face, in the eyes, and forgive ourselves. You are too simple to forgive for all the sins committed by our predecessors. As a grandson, as a grandson for the actions of our parents, grandparents, and great-grandparents, we are not guilty of anything; I am not guilty of anything. But all I can do is feel sorry for them, apologize and apologize. But the fact is that the path of reconciliation does not lead on the road to bridging history, the fact is that, unfortunately, some on their own and others on their own have made a wrong decision in the past. The fact is, during the war, vows were also made to the invader. Not to say what is the greater evil – communism, fascism or Nazism, but the fact is that under the last two certainly here we would not speak Slovenian, but under the first – we can still discuss. I would like to point out in some way this saga of ours, which has been going on for 70 years. I would set a milestone, it happened last April, and I think most of you don't even know what I'm talking about, because the media didn't write about it at all or very little; they only stressed certain clippings. It happened at the Škofi Gymnasium, such as Mitja Klavora, Secretary-General of the Association of Fighters for the values of NOB, said he regretted the revolutionary violence that was committed during and after the war. Peter Sušnik, the New Slovenian Alliance, regretted the arrest of the Germans and marked the arrest as the darkest act ever committed by domestic movements. Isn't that enough for us? Representatives of the organizations made it public in front of the students, in front of the students, and the students who were the President of the Republic of Borut Pahor and the two representatives made it clear that they have enough to be burdened by all of us, we inherit burdens from our parents, from our grandfathers, from our great-grandfathers. Who takes the right to burden future generations with the past evils of our predecessors? People made choices like they did. I asked my grandfather, too, on what basis he decided to go to the partisans. He said I didn't have a second chance, because we didn't know what was going on. We either went to the woods or the Italians took us to the camps or deported us to their army. Their decisions shape today's fate, the fate of the third generation, the fourth generation. I don't know if any of you have been, but I was in Tehran myself, I was in Kočevský Rogo, I was in Huda Jama, I was in Gonars, I was in Pag, please ask you nicely; I would suggest two buses to sit down and visit all these places together, for each other, and to worship all of us, as we did with Matei Tonin – when the media didn't see as much of a story – around November we did and put together wreaths of reconciliation or, I will say, humiliation in Kočevský Horn and in the Holy Ur above Ljubljana. In some ways, I would also invite Members to attend the celebrations that we mark the Primors when we join the Primorska; there are only one and the same. We are always only left because some are disturbed by the star, but the fact is that because of this liberation in Primorska is spoken Slovenian. Without that, I'd probably be somewhere in Milan, Rome, Naples or anywhere. I think it's very understandable, but I will continue because colleague Iva Dimic quoted the president of the Republic as saying how it is possible that at the 70th anniversary of World War II, after almost three quarters of a century after World War II, we fired the Germans, the Italians, and the brother didn't. Let us leave this question open so that we can answer ourselves. When will we be strong enough to accept this as the only way out? I would just say something to the politicians, let us accept the challenge, whether we are able to speak for a year about the half-life of history; but we see after one year how our society will change. "Homeland is one, assigned to us all, and one life, and one death." Oton County. Let's keep that in mind, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, you have the floor. Get Mr. Jože Tanko ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u94	Thank you very much. I've been sitting in the hall all day, and I'm really trying, except for lunch, there was nothing to be away from, so I can listen to you all. I would say that at many performances I remember the songs of the Word, the words, the words, the words. Let me touch some of the performers in reverse. Mr. German, my forerunner, I can agree with you. For I would sign under what you say: but words, words, words torment me. Why? Celebration at the accession of Primorska – I was at the first celebration, and I did not see you. Why was I at the first party? Since the accession holiday of Primorska Slovenija was introduced by the government of Janez Janša with some pure purpose, clean action – the accession of Primorska Slovenije. And I remember today the first celebration that was fantastic for my terms. Fantastic! But look, what happens then, what happens later? This holiday, this celebration, and why I'm not there today. This celebration was then adopted, stolen. It was stolen by the Union of Fighters, and that's the problem. Now you say we're not there. Yes, celebrate the accession of Primorska Slovenije and do not let it be stolen by an organisation that represents continuation because we know what. Crime. You know, that's the problem. Second of all, you were talking about Mr. Clavor and the Sušnik. Yeah, that's where I sign down there, too. But let me remind you that the same Mr. Klavor said at one celebration in 2012 that with me, Colonel, with whom, the government of Janez Janša should be accounted as in 1945. I filed a complaint, and you know where she went. You can see that. How to trust Mr. Klavori with these words he has spoken to these students, we can sign here. However, we cannot sign under this and I hope that you too will condemn what the same gentleman said in 2012. Then you talked about how you went to all the crime scenes, all the different ones. I was way ahead of you. A lot, a lot — all of them. First in partisans, then in those, even as a representative of the National Assembly. And before I listened to some speakers, the situation could be quite different. I can also sign under what Mrs Bratušek says. Yeah, if we do it here. But if I add "bandier rossa la trionfer" in the role of the President of the Government, "evevive or communism e la libert"; then you see that one word, words, words, actions are another. It's a troubled story. Colleagues from New Slovenia, here is only the President, I am deeply confident, but I really deeply believe that your goal, your purpose, your procedure that you have started is good. Who could condemn what you want to achieve? But I'm afraid it can't be achieved. That's what's bothering me. In fact, we can make ten more laws in my opinion, and we can't handle that. Why? I'll show you in one typical copy. The Ministry of Labour shares, among other things, money for various organisations, including those from 1991. The ones from 1991, too. Especially for those in 1945. Go take a look for the last ten years, see how things were moving. When we were both in the government, or earlier, between four and eight, we balanced the stories a little bit, we balanced the stories a little bit, and, in my opinion, the numbers indicate this – we fairly shared these funds. We probably both remember the most for 2012. A few months later, when we left, Mrs Bratušek arrived, all funds for some patriotic organizations from 1991 disappeared. The union of fighters went up 100% and the VSO went down so that he could barely live if he survived. Money is a holy ruler, and one is words, words, words, and then acts. I am sure, even if we adopt this law, even if we adopt it, or any better than that, eventually, the situation in this National Assembly today convinces me of the following. I didn't see one word in this law you proposed about the rehabilitation of quizzings. A fan of Comrade Titus over there says they don't agree to you rehabilitating the quizzes. Yeah, you didn't. You didn't mean to do that. I was thinking about Mr. Kučan's fan. I'm sorry. You didn't have that. Then every other word in his address was pieta, pieta, pieta. Then he who was at the head of an organization that violated all the human rights that existed in that country said what a fine man he was; and he had the right speech. That's a two-faced guy. As long as we have a two-faced policy in this National Assembly, it is not possible, even if we do have this law, to expect the effects to be true. Also later, Mrs. Bashičeva, "the existing law is not good." Of course it's good, and I agree it's good, but if we don't want to do it, the problem is. I'm not going to talk about the United Left, because I'm going out and I'm going to do it in the future. Until I meet her in some position as President of the Union of Fighters; it is likely, according to the speech, that she is so effective. The situation is as follows. I am very pleased with some SMC performances; also your performance, the President, Mr Horvath's performance and some others, provided that these are not words, words, words. I'm not saying that because you are – President Janša announced yesterday – you could read those who wanted to read – a little longer text that speaks of some conditions for national reconciliation. You said that you would sign 4.5 of those terms, and you listed them; but two are questionable. From the point of view of your position, I also understand that you are the President of the National Assembly. I understand this situation. But, look, colleagues from SMC, if we don't admit, apart from what the President of the National Assembly has already said, if we don't admit the next one, the use of armed resistance against the occupying power is an act of rejection. I think we're going to have to -- that half of that there is no connection, but you know, and that doesn't make sense, it's crazy to even tell them. [[Incomprehensible]] But I will probably have to admit that in 1945 it was a violent takeover of power and that this is probably not a commendable act, but a condemnation is worth the effort. We'll probably have to admit that. Then the other: Self - defense and rebellion against revolutionary violence were legitimate acts. Probably some other guards aren't legitimate. I think it'll be time for us to accept that too. Because if we're going to accept that, then we're actually on a horse, if you call it that, let's say it's white. Waiting for the gentlemen on the other side to ask themselves what time it is, it's nonsense, it's a pointless act. Because if someone doesn't read the law, they talk about how they rehabilitate the Quizlings, and all those partisans speak, with the exception of Mr. German, and maybe someone else I've heard from the other side; because they've been heard since 1945. It's unrelated, it's brainwashed. When am I going to believe in success with or without marriage? When I see Mrs. Levicar and Mrs. Tomić in Barbara Rowe, when they lay a wreath like I did, you already did. But I'm still capable of it in Francolov's, and I'm not sure if it's the other way around. When you see those 800 bones, and there's thousands of them down there, and they're not bones at all, but they're parts of mummified corpses when your eyes look out from that box, believe me, it's bad. But they've been waiting there for 70 years. Then it may be better to make another 10, 15, 20, and at least something dignified will happen if the most important part of the policy – gentlemen in the middle – is ready to take a step forward. But however we look at the situation, one more matter has to be acknowledged. But I am that postwar generation, and don't think that any of my relatives were anywhere near these whites, because in Styria we know it wasn't, mostly. My father was even a very short time in the 14th Division, that we made it clear that there would be no strange views. Our school system, which kills people who kill their brains, not for 60 years, for over 70 years, is the one that cripples us, I am deeply convinced that it cripples us, and that we are not able to think with our brains. When did I start thinking about this with my brain? As a child, my mother took me to her father, who didn't have nails. When I was a seven-year-old, I didn't understand why my old dad didn't have nails. He had some bulls at the end of his fingernails instead of his nails. And I asked, why didn't his nails grow? He had a partisan pension to make it clear that for four years he hosted five people on his farm, they had a partisan printery. Then, at the end of 1944–1945, the partisans came by and told him why he had sold the cow to the Germans. Sold for money — and his nails were stuffed down. Then it came to me, and I said my friend was saying strange things when she said they were just good and pretty, but the Germans were bad guys. [[Incomprehensible]] They paid for it, and they ripped his nails off. Then you start thinking. But I'd like someone else to start thinking against me, especially with their head. Let me carry on with the fact that someone said earlier, but I don't know who would have happened if there was a partisan cemetery or some cave somewhere today that would have been partisans. I hope that all the monuments are laid; and it is right that they have them set up. But look, we set them up from 45 to 90. It's at a time when we shouldn't have known there were others. But if they were discovered today, I am sure that without the additional resources of the Ministry of Labour – the budget of the fighters is fantastically large – in 14 days, three weeks there will be a monument. And that's right. Or they'll be dug up, and the second is right, and the second would be better. So why aren't we capable of those thousands, and today we're talking about Barbara Row, okay, the Caveman in Celje is once bigger than Barbara Row. Apparently, the Caveman is once a larger seaport — not even in the mine that we have not yet opened. But why don't we bury all these people in a decent way? No quizzes, no grades on what they did, what they didn't do. Those who must judge should be judged; those who do not judge, we also know this. But the way they get their grave. What reason is there not to get it? No, I have to look here. It's pointless. One more thing. Ever since 1990, you know where I worked, you don't have to explain, but still – there were some criminal charges. And don't think that any investigation lasted two years or anything like that. Not at all. If there was an investigation, if the prosecutors had not already rejected it, the judges rejected the investigation within five, six months. You do not tell me that we have tens of thousands of dead on one side; on the other hand, we have people who say that they have done so, even admit that they have done so – prosecutors and judges do nothing. Why is that? Don't you have a sense of brainwashing — in the school system as well as in law schools, if you want? For deformity. Anyway, if I go back to the proposer, the proponents, in my opinion, let me tell you again, there is nothing substantive to say to your goal. The goal is true, but this goal could have been achieved in 1991. Even if your marriage was adopted with the same mentality as it is, at the thought of someone talking to you about quizzing and the rehabilitation of quizzing, and of all the salvation of Comrade Kučana, look, it's not going together. He represents power, and you're all opposition, and so are we. He'll be there tomorrow at the Ministry of Labour, even if your marriage is passed, but by chance the money won't be for the commission, and it'll go out and it's clear what I'm trying to say? [[…]] It doesn't make any sense. Until we are able to give up and acknowledge history as it was, while the courts do their job if they can do anything. In Germany they belong to a 93-year-old man. And until history becomes one of those forces in society that in every way wants not only to continue "the process of revolution," but to take power and probably behave similarly, or how, I know, until then, there is no real possibility of doing so. And that's it, unfortunately. So, if they've waited seventy years, let's have a few more years for that decent, decent, dignified one. But politics and time are clearly due to mature. It seems to me that they are maturating, at least after the statements of the President of the National Assembly, Mr Horvath and others. I think something small is moving. I don't want to be the same to everyone, because where I think I'm noticing and I feel like someone, but even if there's a opposite political option, they're doing the right thing, I feel like I have to support them and I have to be for these things. Where there's no help, the army doesn't take what they say. Where there is no help, neither does the army take; where there is nothing, neither does the army take. At some performances in front of me, God help – time will do its part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u95	The word is Violeta Tomic. Get Mr. Jože Tanko ready. Here you go, Mrs. Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u96	Thank you for your word. Whoever wants to leave the hall can, because I have a word again. Today we have seen a very interesting situation, the proposaler – New Slovenia is trying to present its proposal for a law as a technical arrangement that will help to realize civil progress, respect for human rights and so on. This is what the Party of the Modern Centre or the Party of Mir Cerar, from which we are used, does not take a clear position and is guided in the middle and refers to ethics and morality. All those who oppose the law should spread ideology while Nova Slovenije should propose an objective technical solution. But that's a long way from the truth. This is a completely distorted perspective, and this perspective is most clear on macroeconomic issues and public finances, where bills are considered objectively necessary; and everyone who is critical to these proposals should speak ideologically. But this, my dears, is completely wrong. Right in the proposals that appear to be the most objective, most normal, there is usually the most ideology, if at first you see it or not. We are in the National Assembly, because voters have supported various ideologies and various political ideas. That is why in the United Left we oppose the proposed law. Let me briefly and clearly sum up our position; we do not oppose the arrangement of graves for victims of post-war violence; we must separate ourselves into a personal, intimate and political dimension. As far as the first one is concerned, the fifth is necessary; at the personal level, John the Resident’s words apply — we are all the same in death. Death is death, loss is loss, no matter which side of whose own. As for the second, political, and here we will not give up in changing and shaping history. The personal dimension of victim suffering – the personal dimension is being used today for political points, used for historical revisionism. This change in history is reflected in the law in two points. The first is the establishment of a commission which is clear to be misused for political purposes for the purposes of historical revisionism; this is shown by its composition as well as its competences. On the other hand, we have the issue of landmarks, monuments where there is a great danger of becoming monuments of equalisation of resistance to the occupying and cooperation with the occupying party. Remembrances of the equalization of partisanism and patriotism. Because of these two provisions in the bill we oppose this proposal because it politicises the bones because it tries to bring more historical revisionism through the back door. You've talked a lot about the need to achieve reconciliation so that we can move forward in this country. But let's not forget, this country and this nation are based on antifascism, so here today, in this national assembly, we speak Slovenian. The only way to move forward is to stop this anti-fascism from collapsing, to stop the partisan struggle for national, cultural and social liberation. Only on these grounds can we build a future. What is most dangerous as a result of today's debate and historic revisionism in general is the normalisation of fascism, the normalisation of fascist rhetoric. In Europe, we are monitoring the rise of the Golden Dawn, Jobbika, the National Fronts without changing history, without a deliberate oblivion against fascism, resistance to exploitation and oppression. This political party, this extreme right, would have no chance of its rise. And that is why we must remember and respect and preserve the antifascist heritage. We must remember so that history will never repeat itself. The danger of repeating horror has never been as close as it is today. There will probably never be a reconciliation between patriotism and partisanism as two opposing political movements. On a personal level, and on an interhuman level, this reconciliation has already been largely achieved — between the living and the dead. We all agree that graves need to be treated with respect, but the current law is sufficient. Let us leave history alone, forgive ourselves first so that we can forgive others. But far from the pietheta, the bones are used for political purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u97	Mr Jože Tanko has the floor to prepare a representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u98	Thank you so much for saying that. I think it is rather painful that within five hours, apart from the opening position, the Government could not say a word, one sentence, to jump into this debate. The second thing that is present today is that the word genocide in the Republic of Slovenia or in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia is very difficult from a language in this Chamber. Even before the chairman of the National Assembly spoke about Armenian genocide in the introduction, he counted many different acts — that was yesterday — except for those matters that we are talking about today. These words are difficult to speak from the language of the representatives of the political authorities in the Republic of Slovenia. Why is that? Why is it easy to talk about Srebrenica, why is it easy to talk about another genocide, but we cannot say a word in a reminder and a memory of what happened mainly during the postwar period in the Republic of Slovenia? Now the question is whether this part of our history is really 100 percent, as some people say. Are there other facts, another part of history, that presents a problem for many who speak about this subject today? I think there are facts that there are evidence, documents and actions that say that this part of our history is not what some people say about it. You have also quoted many here, among them the gentlemen of Comrade John the Resident. If gentlemen had a real interest in reaching reconciliation in the nation, these gentlemen or these comrades had a time of 45 years until independence and then 20 years after independence. or 25 years. Well, look what happened during this period. Did these people really have the interest and the political fortune we are talking about really interest in settling these matters?Oh, my God! This includes Mr. Milan Kučan. The question is also why a special law is needed. For example, if a body is discovered somewhere in the woods, a report is made, a statement is made, a doctor comes in, an autopsy is made, a judicial procedure is initiated. In the event that it is found to be a victim of a criminal offence, a criminal investigation procedure is also initiated — automatically. Now I ask why a different procedure, a special law, is needed for those who have done so in post-war times to find out. This is a great separation and also a great shame for the Republic of Slovenia. The procedure should be exactly the same, regardless of when these victims were, or [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u99	The representative of the Government – State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Mrs Martina Vuk, has the floor. I'd like to prepare a proposal girl.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! From this debate or after this debate, there is some general agreement at least on something that a decent burial is a general civilisation standard that we all agree with. There have been several times cited letters from the President of the Commission; many of you have mentioned that there is no point, no point in saying what has been done so far; let us discuss what will be done next. However, I think it is important to say and remember what has been done so far precisely because the conclusions are drawn, because no one has answered, because no one has said anything, which means they agree that nothing has happened in this area. It was said that by 2009 things were going as they were supposed to, and then neither political will nor personnel nor finance was assured. However, it should be remembered that in 2009 the same law was in force as today, which means, if everything could have run, that the basis is also relatively appropriate. But that is why we and the government have adopted a position because they did not want to say, it is wrong to take another shelter, it is enough that there is no need to talk at all; therefore, as you yourself said, we have had a serious conversation and a constructive dialogue has taken place; for no conversation is too much if both intentions are good and positive and there is a desire to find a solution. Now I will describe what happened between 2012 and April 2015 when we talk about these last years, that is, the period that is said to have been nothing; and the period, I would hardly say that due to a lack of political will – it certainly holds that there was less funding available. But this is not the only area where less funding was available, because the overall situation coincides with the economic and economic crisis that started just after 2009; in Slovenia it came to terms. That is why it is difficult to say that someone purposely cut finances just there and purposefully in this area. However, in 2012 they were also allocated to approximately the same amount of finance as the year or two earlier and as the year, two or three later. As regards the cases carried out in the years 2012 to April 2015, this includes the regular maintenance of 120 war graves in the whole of Slovenia; the maintenance and management of the Dobrava cemetery in Maribor; the amount of post-mortem remains from 45 karst caves and the storage in the Dobrava cemetery in Maribor; the arrangements for the covert Barbara trench war cemetery, this part relating to the decisions of the mining inspection; the cooperation with the Ministry of Defence in the discovery of the military cemetery in the area of the Cerklje military airport near Krka and the preservation of the skeletons from this area in the Dobrava cemetery in Maribor; the execution of the competition and preparation of the project documentation for the construction of a monument to all victims of war; the cooperation in the organisation of the memorial park and the hidden war plots in the area of Kamniška Bistrica; the redemption of the land in the area of the hidden war cemetery in Maribor; the construction and the preparation of the project documentation for the construction of a monument to all victims of the wares; and the inter-refination of the period of the burial of the war. Ordering and rehabilitation of the Kozarje War Cemetery; rehabilitation and arrangement of the World War I Cemetery in Trenta; intervention arrangements of the 1st World War Cemetery in Ukanac and Rebro; intervention arrangements of the War Cemetery and the Russian Chapel in Vršič; arrangements of the War Cemetery and memorial park for the Francolovic victims; and co-financing of the Sočje project — Ways of Peace. It has already been said in the opening that 600 such alleged graves have been entered in the records of the hidden graves; that the probes were carried out in 185 cases, that 99 of these graves have been confirmed as graves, that there are actually remains in there; and that 86 such graves have not been confirmed. As for the editing of Barbara Rowe — the Barbara Reef Cemetery, Huda Jama, was discovered in March 2009. And that's when the construction of the skeleton began, which was completed by the end of 2009. This skeleton provides a suitable, five - foot - long burial or storage. The cemetery was registered in the War Cemetery Register in November 2012. The Ministry set up a memorial board at the mine entrance and arranged a room for candles and flowers. The Ministry has concluded an agreement with the owner of the mine Pivovarno Laško on the management of mine premises and, on the basis of this agreement, the owner allows access to the war cemetery. The owner is obliged to take care of the safety conditions and also of the safety of visitors. On the basis of the status acquired for the war grave, the regime laid down in Article 30 of the War Cemetery Act entered into force for the areas of the war grave. Last year's activities, according to 2014 and 2015, were carried out mainly in the direction of the rehabilitation of the mine shaft on the basis of a mining inspection decision. These works were completed on 11 March this year and some EUR 248,000 was spent on these works. From the beginning of the discovery of the Barbara trench cemetery until the end of 2011, about a million euros were allocated to the site. The costs of identification and investigation were borne by the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior and should amount to about half a million euros. This year, the Ministry consulted experts who believe that postmortem remains are suitable for permanent storage after the decommissioning process, so we conduct procedures to ensure permanent and more appropriate preservation of postmortem remains or so-called coffin storage. Can I call it that? Could more be done, or could individual works, detections, probes take place more quickly? You could, of course you could. Or in certain circumstances, it was impossible to say that we were not working in accordance with what we were committed to and what we were able to do, based on the procedures that needed to be followed. It was said that reconciliation is really a process; that reconciliation cannot be the result of one act. We've been talking about this process for at least the last 25 years, in our history. Are we actually going against this thing? Whether we agree on what this reconciliation should mean, what it should be and what it should accomplish is another question. Because of the fact that there is some inner reconciliation, the consensus of generations, the peace of living, and the capacity to behave to all victims must be precisely that — consensus. And while there is no consensus, it is difficult to say that we are taking steps in the same direction. We can take steps, but these steps can be the opposite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u101	Ms Ludmila Novak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u102	First, I'd like to say a few words about money. Surely the money was too little, and I believe that if this item is within the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, there are always reasons why money is much more needed. Yeah, we don't have enough for scholarships, for pensions, for the unemployed; but it's the actions of the pietheta. We have to reserve money here for these purposes as well. I have talked about this and negotiated with the President of the Government, and that is why there is also a special item in the law that is intended only for that purpose. Otherwise, money can always be distributed somewhere else because it is more needed elsewhere. When I look at some war monuments, either partisans or monuments to other victims, patriots, I watch the years when someone was born when he died. There are anniversaries – born 1918, 1920, 1922, died 1943, 1945. If we calculate age, then we see that the old males were 20, 25 years old, some more. Today we would say that our children are still students, those we still hold hands with because they are young. And we speak here and easily place them among traitors — one of them or another. We wanted to talk to this law about a decent burial of a man, regardless of religious, political affiliation. We have the Internet today, but we're still confused because we don't know what information we'd trust. How are we supposed to know which side it takes, of course, against the invader? [[…]] And here I have to say that mistakes have been made, including on the other side. Never, I never advocate it, but — we too often take the blame for ourselves; we who were not then involved, why I should take the blame for the actions of my ancestors who were on this side or that side. I'm from East Styria, where there were no partisans or patriots. My father was in the German army; but he didn't go with joy, but he had to go. He also escaped from it, thank God that he was not bitter about it, but normally he was able to move on. This happened to one family in different armies, on different sides. That is why I call upon you once again and ask that we think of these boys, men, girls, women who were born to mothers, fathers like all of us; those who wanted to live this life even after freedom, who may have dreamed of marriage, how they would plow again, how they would have children; but they were killed and they were not given it. And think of all the mourning ones who have stayed behind and suffer for it today. This was our purpose — to arrange a decent burial and also to understand all the mourning ones.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u103	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? If you would also like to discuss the proposal's representative Mrs Ljudmila Novak and the representative of the Government, please apply with a raise of hands; for everyone else, please apply. I'm opening the list. Each debater has four minutes and thirty seconds. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u104	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished representatives and representatives of the government! First of all, I must say that I am extremely disappointed with the representative of the government or ministry responsible for this legislation, which has actually talked about a report. You know, I read these reports in very detail and they're written by the government commission. Government! The government commission writes these reports, at least three such thick letters with very significant addresses, texts, numbers, photographs and so on. Don't tell me what was done; I need and demand an answer, why has Slovenia been standing in front of thousands of open graves at the grave of St. Barbara for five years? We're a world phenomenon, it's nowhere in the world. A few thousand open graves, five years, ladies and gentlemen, we don't know how to bury them. Who's responsible for this? I will say – the Ministry responsible for this legislation. Even if something happens to me when I'm on the road. Yeah, who's that? Yeah, who's that?Oh, my God! Today, ladies and gentlemen, when about 15, maybe 20% of this debate was devoted strictly to this legislation, I see that even today, in the third millennium, 70 years after World War II, it is not the political will to do what we sincerely wanted in New Slovenia. But all we wanted was to help with this law to bury, however, the remains of the people scattered throughout our country, in our loving country, which we all love; and it is because of these hidden graves that are still bloody and still bloody. That's all we wanted, we didn't use any ideological concepts anywhere, but of course we can't control the debate that went in some ideological direction for a moment. But, okay, we're gonna take this humiliation, too, no problem. But some of you have indicated that, of course, you are in order to bury yourself, of course it must be done, absolutely, it is civil, it is human and so on; but not as New Slovenia proposes. So, the coalition has a terrible apparatus, it has a government in the back, it's a great brain potential, which – now I expect – will bring a better alternative solution, let's say by 2015. During this time a good marriage, a better marriage, can be written if you do not want a law that would actually close these few thousand graves at the trench of St. Barbara. Are we even aware, colleagues and colleagues, of what we are for one nation?Oh, my God! We stand silent, powerless, we have no will, not political or otherwise, to lock these few thousand graves in the trench of St. Barbara and many others. And unfortunately, in this temple of democracy, there is still not enough will to allow the Slovenian Antigon to bury his brother. We're extremely disappointed, extraordinary! But there's still enough time to show your will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u105	Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u106	Thank you very much. I'll be relatively brief, President. I'd forgotten to point out two things before. On one point, and I also respond to what the Ministry of Labour representative, State Secretary, said. See for 2013, you spoke – even distribution of burdens and so on. See the 2013 item of the Union of Fighters Associations and see the item VSO in 2013. And look at the North item in 2013. You also have the North in addition to the Ministry of the Interior. By the way, you allocated a million euros to the North between 2004 and 2013, by the way. In 2013, I don't know if it was you, because I don't know if you were a secretary of state at the time, I suppose not, or yes, you did something — the Union of Fighters has greatly increased funds, I think more than once. You've reduced all of them to almost a few tanks of gas. They already have all the monuments in place, and these don't. In the meantime, you've adapted the legislation and the rulebook, by the way, so you can do it. That's what I was talking about. But I wanted to talk, and I actually forgot to mention what hurt me the most from the other side. Eva Irgle's colleague had, I listened to that speech, read again behind our typewriters, and published it, and I think there's a customer on her website. In fact, it seems to me that this was the case – I don't know how long a colleague wrote it, she can say it herself, but it was an extremely in-depth speech, an extremely in-depth speech, an extremely historicly accurate speech and a pieteous speech if you want. And see that then someone in this room, Mrs. Levicar, this was, declares him a hate speech. Look, I'm inviting all those Members who didn't listen to her, and I'm inviting all those who oppose the SDS, and you're watching us read this. You'll find that this is a correctional performance, a performance for which you have to prepare for a long time, what you read, and I don't accept someone saying that this is a hate speech. That would even take an apology to her. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u107	Mr Primož Hainz has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u108	Thank you so much for saying that, President. I should of course say that I thought today that I would vote later when we see how the debate over the law developed, of course then the debate develops in such a way that what Mr Gorenak says is an in-depth debate from the beginning, I think that the deeply politicized atmosphere in the National Assembly today. There's no doubt about that. This was even observed by Mr Tanko, who at the end was very brief and said only a few sentences because he wanted to calm the whole atmosphere. There was a completely political debate, very little or maybe half of the talk, but let's leave it. It's just that, of course, when a person listens to this, it's hard to say, I'm not going to define myself, because we're just here in the National Assembly, we have to be defined in some way. That is why I will not talk about the law because the law has been written by those who will need it, or by the commission, and I think that I would really demand, as suggested, many amendments if it were even real, but I am increasingly in the position that the previous law, as it was, should be implemented. As far as these political issues are concerned, however, it is about getting rid of them. Look, under the sign of the cross, there have been untold tragedies in history, let's leave now, but let's say in European history, however. Even under the star; but the star is disputed, but the cross is not disputed. In fact, I think if people need a cross, they should have it — I don't mind. If people need a star, let them have it — and I don't think they should be against it. That's for me! But not that my yes is in some way: but he that thinketh otherwise hath no right to vote. In such cases as women and children killed, you know, of course I can agree with this psychology, that it was terrible, but I must tell you that during the war, children and women were killed on the doorsteps of the home, and also inconceivably killed, Mrs Irgle. [[…]] They were standing there, and they came, but whoever came from the Germans or the domestics; and this was not the case. Because you need to know that the Germans were during the war to be able to kill — and, of course, their helpers also because this is part of this history — the Germans declared guerrillas to be bandits, so that they did not have to comply with war legislation. That was the story. And it's not true that the war is over. The war didn't go away, as you all are now referring to some kind of thesis. Elite have been defined; one way or another. But it is true that war is a disaster, war is a tragedy, and then many fates happen without people being guilty or aware of what is happening to them. I agree with that! But the elite, the political elites, have clearly defined themselves! And there's no doubt about that. Here to mix human destiny with the views of political elites is, of course, mildly speaking, unhistorically to the very least. But I have to say, as far as these years go, that's all. At least since 16 June 1944, since the agreement Tito-Šubašić, the domestic, German and other units have been absolutely on the other hand and the Yugoslav partisan army has been accepted as an English-American ally in full, although this has, of course, been accepted before; but since then it is definitely necessary to take this into account in history. Another psychological, so-called Vietnamese syndrome is what we call it today, for some, the war could not have ended or, unfortunately, did not end on May 15th, but some wars could not be forgotten overnight, and that is some problem that is very big and was certainly also a problem at that time.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u109	Mrs. Iva Dimic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u110	Thank you very much, President. Colleagues and colleagues! I'm sure I've gone again to check that we don't have the above-mentioned relationship or cross anywhere in the bill. That everyone interprets what his eyes hear, what his eyes see, and I'm sure it's for everyone then the truth, for each individual. Today's debate has shown that among the majority of the members of the groups there is no favor to our proposal for a law on hidden war graves and the burial of victims. We have just heard from members of the SD and Desus that we already have the War Cemetery Act, which regulates everything. Both parties have been in the government for the past 8 years, SD may have been one year less. Which parties, therefore, will assume responsibility for non-implementation in their view of the relevant law? I didn't hear that here today. Although we believe in the New Slovenia - Christian Democrats that the current War Cemetery Act is largely flawed in the work relating to the procedures for detecting hidden war graves, it is quite well regulated by war graves. This is exactly what we have come from, and we are convinced that the procedure for detecting hidden graves is a separate legal unit, which makes sense to regulate in a specific law. This is exactly what we have come to believe that this is a whole that is simply an existing law that cannot be resolved, and you say that it is necessary to amend the existing law. Of course you do. You had power — nothing happened! And full of words today, when voting on this bill, it is a matter of defining each individual Member today whether everyone has the right to a burial, to a grave and to a memory. [[…]] Vote against it means denying this right to those who have not had these basic human rights for 70 years since the loss of life, often in the cruelest way. I don't think this proposal can be challenged. We're not judging anyone. Forgiveness has long been done. It's only about giving them the right to the grave, that the family find their ancestors, that they can turn on the lights, and that we move on, because for all of this we have all our children we want the best for them and move on together. In this we see in New Slovenia reconciliation, forgiveness, cooperation in the good of the country, in the good of future generations. And today we are offering this law a first step towards this.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u111	This concludes the debate. The proposal concludes that the proposal for a law is appropriate for a further proposal. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u112	Today we have already set out several times the story of the Antigona and this is often used in Slovenia in recent times. But we never say anything about Creon. So Antigona, who wanted to bury her brother, paid for it with her life. Creon didn't want to withdraw his threat because it's power because he can't cancel what he promised, but what happened at the end? His niece died, his son died, his fiancé died, and his wife died. Who was the most punished in the end? He himself; for his hardness of heart, because of his insistence on his righteousness! And who are the ones most punished for such stubborn persistence? We ourselves because we do not come to the truth, because we do not come to reconciliation and the greatest sacrifice of this is the Slovenian nation and especially our youth. They are not guilty, we are not guilty of what happened in the past, but we are responsible for how we will live in the future. Kreon insisted on his own, so he lost everything.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u113	So I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 6th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. At the end of the day, that's a first-hand proposal for a tax bill. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. With regard to this bill, 51 Members and Members of Parliament, signed first by Dr Simono Kustec Lipicer, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance mag. Matthew the Vranic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u114	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The proposal for a law on tax clearance of accounts is an integral part of measures to combat the grey economy. This measure will introduce so-called tax receipts in the form of an invoice validation procedure with the Financial Administration. The clearance procedure will be mandatory for all persons who issue accounts in cash transactions. The basic objective of this process of compulsory clearance of accounts is to establish a system that will allow for transparent and reliable recording of the cash traffic of taxable persons, thereby reducing the scope of the grey economy and preventing tax evasion and fraud in the field of value added tax, corporate income taxes, operating income tax, income tax and other benefits, as well as the proper calculation of social security contributions and the control of the legality of employment or work. According to the proposal of the law, cashiers will be linked online to the central information system of the Financial Administration, which will confirm and store account details in the real-time issuance process. The procedure for tax clearance of accounts, together with the provisions in force under Articles 31a and 38 of the Tax Procedure Act, will create a system that will allow traceability and effectiveness of controls over invoices issued and contribute to the limitation of the grey economy. The bill also provides for a transitional period within which the debtors will be allowed to gradually switch to the system of clearance of accounts. The transitional period will take two years, up to 31. 12. 2017, and at that time, the debtors will be able to decide on their own whether to use an electronic device with established electronic connection to the Financial Administration or accounts from the associated account book, which will be required subsequently, within ten working days, to confirm with the Financial Administration. The optional implementation of the clearance procedure shall be determined by 1. 12. 2015, which facilitates the preparation of the debtors for the mandatory implementation of the clearance procedure provided for from 2 January 2016. From the introduction of mandatory clearance of accounts during the year of the introduction of this measure, we expect an increase in tax revenues of between €50 million and €100 million. This is an additional impact to be attributed to the financial impact of the measures already introduced to combat the grey economy. The proposed law is an important element of the fight against the grey economy, and it does not, in any way, provide or provide an answer to all the questions we face in relation to the fight against the grey economy, so it will have to be strengthened or complemented with complementary activities, on the one hand, with an adequate analysis of the risk of the data to be obtained by the Financial Administration in the validation process, as well as the appropriate use of available human resources on the Financial Administration. With all due regard to the above, I propose that you support the proposal for a law and that the National Assembly decide that the law is appropriate for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u115	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs. Marija Antonija Kovacič is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u116	Mr President, Madam Secretary, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! We have before us a completely new law, which was drafted at the Ministry of Finance on the basis of an action plan for the introduction of tax registers, which was approved by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in February this year. And since then, it has seemed to be a very simple question: the introduction of tax boxes, yes or no. In the Desus Group, we were convinced from the outset that not only do we need tax receipts in Slovenia, but they need to be introduced as soon as possible, and in further coordination procedures, the arguments for the introduction of tax registers have only increased further. Not only because the state is supposed to additionally fill the register with tax collection, but because of the problems that are present in practice, we finally end. There's plenty of gray economy and fraud. It suffers not only the economy in general, but also, as a result, the material and social situation of individuals, because it is very disturbing to observe injustice, which is reflected in the increasingly growing differences between the financial positions of entrepreneurs in different industries. The most obvious violations are in the case of those who operate exclusively or largely in cash. The bill is already being built on empires from illegal cash transactions. However, it is not only an issue in employees or in business owners, but also in the mindset of customers of services or products. Fair business is supposed to be a self-evident feature of each individual, but unfortunately there is no more competitive market than there is and certain things need to be written down. The new measures, which will undoubtedly help combat the grey economy, will clearly lay down today's bill, including fines for infringements that will not be exactly negligible. In the Desus Group, we most welcome the provision to transfer tax liability to all stakeholders in the sales process; from debtors and software developers to customers. We aim to provide an encouraging tax environment that will at the same time allow for a fair transfer of the tax burden. In particular, we support greater involvement by the buyer himself, as not least the latter play a major role in the overall sales process. So far, the competent ministry has received a lot of comments on the proposal for a law. Most of them relate to certain exceptions that should be included among the debtors to whom this law applies. The Ministry performed an excellent task as all comments were thoroughly reviewed and taken into account in the drafting of the final text. Thus, specific provisions such as simplification for small debtors and transitional periods have been further included. Now, just before the adoption of the law, opposition can be detected in public that penalties for customers are too high. In the Desus Group, we estimate that customers must also be aware of the importance of issuing accounts, since ultimately the account is the only proof that they can exercise their rights. The role of awareness-raising and information is crucial here. To this end, an additional effort should also be made in the media campaign in the form of a prize game. The latter encourages a Croatian model, as well as an overall model with positive experiences. Members and Members of Desus would like Slovenia to experience only the good wages of the tax administration model, so we offer support to the government's proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u117	The word is given by the Member Group of the United Left. Excuse me. Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u118	Thank you for your word, President. A nice welcome to all on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that the Law on tax clearance of accounts or the so-called introduction of real tax receipts means a new chapter against the fight against the grey economy. An important point is that the grey economy somehow consumes as much as 10% of the gross domestic product, so it is right that the Government is trying to develop a systematic and, above all, a measure to be taken with the greatest consideration. In the context of this consideration, we note that the fight against the grey economy cannot and must not become a mere mechanism for mending the budget gap, which will try to recover from the failed tax policy measures by replacing them with pressures on the already burdened economy. On the contrary! It must become the path on which the high consensus of all stakeholders will be reached and that this will be a joint project that should not bear a repressive foremark in the first place. We see the opportunity for this in particular in the dialogue with all stakeholders and within the negotiations with the Economic and Social Council, which is why we also support, in the Group of Social Democrats, the position taken at the Economic and Social Council, that the Ministry of Finance should examine the comments and proposals made in the debate and try to take them into account as much as possible. Furthermore, we believe that in addition to the measures taken to curb the grey economy, the Government must be more active in the remaining areas, which will alleviate many unfortunate tax policy moves in the past. In this tax policy, in particular, I should point out the reductions in corporate income tax, the reckless changes in the income scale and, of course, the tax on salaries paid. Or, in short, if I may sum it up: these measures have been continuously cut and cut by budgetary revenues over the past years, much in the way of decommissioning the richest, rather than burdening the economy and helping it to raise additional investment capital. However, the investment potential has also been closed by the banking sector, which remains high and unprepared for growing demand from small and medium-sized enterprises despite major state recovery. The vicious circle of such a credit policy, unfortunate tax measures and, on the other hand, the new tax burdens that can be seen in the law under consideration today can be very questionable for future economic growth or an increase in gross social product. We therefore want to examine in detail some of the solutions that are enshrined in this law, which appear to be extremely difficult for the consumer, in addition to these difficult issues mentioned in the introductory part. In fact, the role of the consumer is somehow envisaged in this law in a way that will be subject to control, because, if it did not have an account for a certain period, it would also be punishable by a fine of between €40 and €400. We believe that it is indeed necessary to examine in very detail here whether this measure is at all reasonable, but in particular to point out the disproportionateity of this measure, while also raising a number of issues of interference with the privacy of the consumer and his property. We believe that the law would be significantly more appropriate if those provisions were not in law at all. The transitional period will also need to be addressed during the legislative process in the light of the information and adaptation of the system, as well as sufficient information from the debtors and consumers. Last but not least, the costs incurred by the introduction of the tax registers themselves must by no means be allowed to become a mere expense of the economy, as this can also become another one of those stones that can make it difficult for the economy to lift the wagon up. In particular, on this occasion, I would like to draw attention to data showing that more entrepreneurs and craftsmen have been in need of free medical care. This is one of the indicators that we have been extremely concerned about, and if you are additionally burdening the tradesmen and even the independent entrepreneurs with the purchase of the tax registers, this can be an additional burden for them and also a possible step forward for them to stop their activities. In particular, we would draw attention to the very reckless and, at the same time, very difficult consequences of the sale of Slovenian companies in the long term. In fact, if we look at the data, we find that Slovenian industrial production achieves 6% growth in this year's three months. However, if we look at the production activity of chemicals and chemical products, it fell by 4% in the first three months of this year. And the analysis shows that most of this sector is actually sold by Helios. It is therefore a matter of selling without serious consideration, what consequences this will have in the future for industrial production in Slovenia. If we are aware that Mercator has been sold recently and that payment deadlines for the Slovenian food and food industry are increasing and are more difficult for the food and food industry and that, finally, the Mercator’s products are disappearing from the Mercator’s shelves of Slovenian producers, then, of course, this is also one of the mechanisms that needs to be carefully examined, what additional burden also means by the introduction of tax boxes. If we add Zito to this, there is also a great danger for agriculture and the food industry to lose its market. And when this market loses its market at an additional tax burden, this can be very, very questionable for the further economic development of Slovenia. We therefore expect that all the steps and consequences of all these actions, which I have warned us that we will not experience a possible new shock with the collapse of companies and again with a new bank hole, with lower economic growth and, of course, empty tax receipts. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u119	The word is given by the Group of Members of the United Left, for her Luka Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u120	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We all know that the social costs of resolving the crisis have been very high in recent years, which has had a particular impact on the increase in public financial expenditure mainly due to the resolution of the succeeding financial sector. As a result of this, the cuts in other items on the expenditure side of the budget have been said to be savings, making the social picture in Slovenia more and more acute today. That is why, in the United Left, we believe that it is high time for us to start solving the social crisis, or now the public finances crisis, on the other hand, by increasing the budget revenue, so that we can mitigate the pressures on the budget spending side. The tax remittances – i.e. the proposal before us – partially solve this problem because they are expanding the taxpayers' base by limiting the grey economy and will contribute positively to the resolution of the crisis in this way, so the United Left has the support of this proposal in principle. Although the proposal for the introduction of the tax registers is not new, it has never been successful due to the various pressures of the stakeholders so far. Various employers' associations and some media have tried to give the public the impression that the tax is just a cost and will not have an effect. This is not true, since facts and experiences from other countries show that tax collectors actually contribute to a more equal treatment of taxpayers, it is said that they reduce the possibility of tax evasion and that they also increase tax revenues from this title. Tax registers have proved to be a good solution in some countries, and there have been quite a few positive experiences with us since the introduction of so-called virtual tax registers. However, we often hear an argument that even after the introduction of the tax box, those entrepreneurs who cheat in such a way that they do not issue the invoices will still not issue the invoices and therefore will still not pay the taxes. That is true, but it is important to note that many cheats, for example, by issuing an account and then not recording it in business books or by deleting it afterwards. Well, it seems outside that he's issued a bill to do business legally, but he doesn't take the tax away from that income later. This is not only about VAT, but also ultimately about the income of independent entrepreneurs or the corporate income tax when it comes to larger businesses. Tax receipts seem useful to us because they limit the possibility of such abuses. Although we have so far had virtual cash registers, where the deletion or change of accounts has been prohibited, it has not been technically impossible. But in the first step, it is said by introducing virtual cash registers, according to the applicant, the rate of payment of taxes has increased, so the introduction of fair tax boxes in this sense is a step forward and we support it in the United Left, as we expect positive effects. Another reason why we support the introduction of tax registers is to facilitate their control. As long as we have only virtual tax receipts, i.e. a legal ban on erasure of accounts, the infringement inspectors can only detect by field control. The proposal that we have before us, however, provides for an online system of tax receipts, is that the tax authority, on the other hand, obtains traffic data for each issued cash account. The inspectors may exercise control over this system without having to visit the debtor himself. In our opinion, the online data recording system brings another novelty that we support. When FURS has this data at its disposal, it will be able to identify, on the basis of statistics, which debtors are most likely to tax evasion or to violate labour legislation. Once the FURS has all this information on the table, it will be able to carry out targeted controls. This will make it easier for FURS to prosecute both tax evasion and infringements of labour rights on the other hand. In fact, companies that only pay with cash, which only deal in cash, have the greatest potential for black employment. In recent times, there has been a growing practice of hiring a company or a self-employed worker, but only for reduced working hours and in fact working full-time or even more. Only part-time work is taking place because half of the money, half of the wages are paid and if he loses his job, he is therefore entitled only to a minimum unemployment allowance. Of course, workers do not often hope to resist such evasion and violation of labour rights in fear of jobs, and, on the other hand, they are unjustifiably poor in terms of both the health and the pension and the state budget, because of half the wages paid by the worker in black, no contributions and income are paid. In our opinion, with the proposed tax registers, FURS would be able to link the data from the account records to the employment records and by comparing these two types of data, it detects violations of labour law and fundamental labour rights. In the public debate, the tax boxes have been ignored by this law to prosecute infringements of labour rights, but in the United Left we consider that this is one of the main reasons why the introduction of these registers makes sense. In recent months, FURS has finally begun to prosecute employers who are forcing their employees to become independent entrepreneurs instead of hiring them. With the introduction of tax registers, without any budgetary costs in this control, we could take a huge step forward not only against tax dumping but also against social dumping. And the third time. There were a lot of fears in the public about the costs that the debtors would have for the introduction of the new system. Here it must be said that the exemptions under the Tax Procedure Act are fully maintained, both for farmers and for entrepreneurs with few cash items, even in the future, there will be no need for tax receipts. However, it will not be necessary to buy new cash registers or new computer programs for those debtors who are already obliged by the current rules to keep business books and have cash registers. Small pledges will have a free FURS programme at their disposal, and already existing debtors will need only a system upgrade, so this problem does not seem relevant to us. Finally, I would stop at the obligations imposed by the law on consumers. The consumer union here has pointed out high fines, problematic fines if the customer does not save an account for goods or services. This argument is partly agreed with us, because it makes no sense to penalise someone with 40 euros of fines if they reject, say, an invoice for 10 euros, so it would make sense to think here about a threshold, a lower limit in such criminal provisions and also a pardon for the fines themselves, because they are actually too high. On the other hand, we are not in favour of the complete deletion of the criminal provisions in this Article, since buyers are not only natural persons, not only final consumers, but often businesses, legal entities that can participate on purpose, help other companies in tax evasion in order to buy cheaper goods. That's why it makes sense to us to some extent. In the United Left, we support the law with these comments, but we note that regulation also bears a great responsibility. The FURS should now be able to ensure the easy and smooth and free use of these applications. On the other hand, it is a political responsibility in government. In fact, spreading the tax base is one step towards tax fairness and another step towards tax fairness is intensifying tax progress so that the country collects more tax mainly for people with higher incomes and more assets. Only when the country starts collecting taxes more effectively than the most wealthy will we be able to start thinking about reducing VAT and then eventually less reasons for doing business without accounts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u121	The word is given by the New Slovenia Group of Members - Christian Democrats, for which Mr Jožef Horvat is responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, Madam Secretary of State! The state will only draw the economy out of the crisis, not the policy, not the union. That's a fact. This is an axiom to which Members of the New Slovenia Group are strongly reminded in all discussions on the resolution of the economic and financial crisis in our country. It is the policy which must create an appropriate business environment in which the economy can operate. The key task of each government should be to create a better business environment, and the way to this goal is to tax the economy, reduce bureaucratic barriers and globalisation or internationalisation of Slovenia. In doing so, the government's most important confidence in the economy that generates the economy's confidence in the government. Is the introduction of tax receipts such a measure by the current government that will improve the business environment? I'm sure we don't. This is also highlighted in the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Chamber of Commerce, which strongly opposes the introduction of tax registers. This measure is acting in the opposite direction, additional administrative and financial burdens the economy. That's a fact. If we remember two years ago, then we introduced so-called virtual tax registers for those taxpayers who deal in cash and use registers. We have already burdened economic operators with purchasing equipment and programmes that prevent deletion or correction of entries. To remember, such software needs not only to be purchased but also to be maintained and taxpayers are now burdened by the cost of maintaining this equipment. Sooner than in three years, we will burden the economy again, again with new costs and new rules. In particular, smaller business entities, including self-employed, self-employed entrepreneurs and micro-enterprises, will decide to shut down their activities and, as a result, become the burden of social services and some will go into a grey economy. The new cost of introducing tax receipts, estimated at thousands of EUR 500 to EUR 800 per individual taxpayer, will be too much of a financial burden. Many economic operators, in particular smaller ones, are already barely able to get along and operate on a positive zero, due to the crisis and, in particular, non-discipline of payments. We stress that the government of Mira Cerar is in violation of its own commitments. In the Social Agreement 2015 to 2016, it committed itself not to burden the economy further. The introduction of tax registers is a breach of this agreement. We wonder how many jobs this measure will bring. He'll probably bring them, but unfortunately with a negative omen. To be clear, the Government does not plan the introduction of tax registers in order to eliminate the grey economy, but only with a view to filling the budget and additional control over the debtors, because it simply does not trust the debtors. If the tax ruling were to be a real measure in the fight against the grey economy estimated at several billion, perhaps even 10 billion euros, then their introduction should contribute an additional half billion euros more to the state budget. Only from value added tax. However, in the action plan for the introduction of tax receipts adopted last week, the government evaluated the financial impact of only EUR 50 to 100 million per year. In our opinion, this fiscal impact is also excessive, given the fact that the number of operators operating on the market will decrease, while the number of recipients of social transfers will increase. Let us also note that, of course, the tax registers will not be used by storms, so that the country will not reduce the field of grey economy with this measure, but on the contrary, in our view even increase. It would be better for the government to acknowledge to the troublemaker his propriety, his work — not laziness — in order to offer them simplified flat-rate taxation and recommend that he open an espa or part of it; but if he cheats, of course, there must be strict sanctions for that. The introduction of tax registers is only the continuation of an uncertain and unpredictable business environment in Slovenia. This fact is increasingly highlighted by existing business entities, who, instead of their core activity, must constantly deal with administration and accounting, reading and introducing ever-new and new legislation and related new information solutions. Instead of investing their time, money and energy in governance, in the development of basic activities, they must invest it in accounting, administration and other accompanying activities. It is therefore a farce not a measure against the grey economy. The instability of the business environment will continue to discourage potential investors, both Slovenian and foreign, to decide on open activities or companies in Slovenia. In view of the constant changes in legislation, in particular tax rules, they cannot plan the development of activities. Business entities that do not have the sole purpose of making a quick profit, but a predictable business and stable growth, will not decide on such investment conditions with us. The view and attitude on the predictability and stability of the business environment will have to change if the current government really wants new investors. And, consumers, be careful, you'll pay a fine if you don't keep the bills! Colleagues and colleagues, we have received some letters from Slovenian handicrafts, including teachers and representatives of domestic and artistic crafts, which is actually part of our Slovenian identity, and they warn us and ask us to consider the introduction of tax registers. Many will give up their activities. And one more thing, we should first remove the grey foxes, as far as Internet coverage is concerned, including the coverage of the mobile signal, and we need some EUR 300 million from the Ministry's calculations. Members of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats We oppose the bill on tax confirmation of accounts for these reasons.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u123	The word is given by the Alliance's Group of Ambassadors, a magi for him. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u124	President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Since the introduction of so-called tax quasi-cassettes, i.e. from 1 July 2013, Slovenia has been discussing whether these registers are sufficient or should we, in the case of neighbouring Croatia, also introduce the so-called real tax registers. To refresh my memory, I would like to remind you of the spectacular actions of Croatian authorities that closed the guesthouses in the middle of the tourist season in 2013. Many Slovenian tourists were then approving the Croatian tax authorities' film actions and we were all discussing their success. And if I stay a little longer with our neighbours and remember how the introduction of the tax registers took place with them; the Fiscalisation Act was adopted in Croatia in November 2012 and introduced in three phases. The first phase envisaged the introduction of cash registers for large and medium-sized enterprises and connected around 22,000 debtors. The second phase brought together other debtors, such as merchants, athletes, lawyers, notaries, doctors, and connected around 57,000. The third stage was an obligation for all debtors. With 1. Seven. In Croatia, the use of tax warehouses has become compulsory for all taxpayers. In the middle of the tourist season, we were able to observe on one side of the already mentioned spectacular action by Croatian tax authorities, and on the other hand we were able to read in the daily newspaper about the unexpected good results of the introduction of tax registers. Thus, the debtors reported on average up to 40% more traffic than the year before. These are certainly data worthy of additional attention, media and political attention. In about the same time frame, we have also tried to infect the grey economy with different receptions. The amendment adopted in December 2012 on the Tax Procedure Act entered into force on 1 July 2013. The essential difference between Croatia and our regulation is that the tax administration is immediately informed after Croatian traffic arrangements and the situation should be checked at the treasury location or wait for the debtor to report. Remember, the amendment to the Tax Procedure Act provided that a taxable person should not have or use computer programs or electronic devices that enable the deletion, repair or any modification of the record in the device. If I simplify, traffic from such devices can no longer be deleted or modified. And also the Slovenian version of the tax box significantly increased the inflow of tax duties in the first year of introduction. Data from 2014 show that, due to the use of registers, the country collected 24 % more VAT per month in certain activities. Data for October 2014 show, for example, that 39.9 % more VAT was declared in the service, 40 % more in the production of bread, pastry and pastries, and 145 % more in the sale of textiles on the market. Both variants, Croatia and Slovenia, thus pursue the same objective, namely to reduce the scope of the grey economy by introducing a system that will allow transparent and reliable recording of cash transactions. It follows from the proposal for a law on tax clearance of accounts that we have before us today that the law will provide for the obligation to carry out the procedures for the validation of accounts in cash for tax purposes, to determine who will be liable to carry out the clearance of accounts procedure and the clearance of accounts procedure itself, to determine the content of the account for the purposes of carrying out the clearance of accounts procedure, to determine the technical requirements, to control the implementation of the law and to us a very controversial obligation to take over the invoice issued in cash transactions for the buyer. We do not, in principle, object to the proposal for a law that we are considering today in the context of the first reading, in the Group of Members of the Alliance. While there are some provisions in the text itself that we expect to be complemented, corrected or excluded from the text in future. There are also some open questions that we expect to receive appropriate answers. However, it is totally unacceptable for us to accept the third paragraph of Article 12 and Article 17 of the draft law, which lays down sanctions in cases where the consumer cannot submit an invoice for this to the authorised person. The tax authority is the one responsible for overseeing the work and reporting of taxpayers and not the consumer! In cases where the taxpayer's tax authority finds irregularities in the debtor's case, it may or must punish them – the debtors and not the consumers. The consumer's punishment in this case is understood as a transfer of responsibility for the competence to control the work of the debtors and especially when a fine of up to €400 is at risk for the consumer. We believe that the questions raised by the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia are such that further consideration is needed. Finally, the Croatian law also removed some activities by taxi. Once again, I would like to stress that the tax warehouses are intended to curb the scope of the grey economy that arises when paid in cash. I point out – what I am saying now – because the law also does not provide for a different treatment of those who do not deal with cash. An appropriate supplement will certainly be necessary, according to our assessment. We agree that the exception should not, in principle, be, or should not be, at all, in the so-called ‘paushalists’, where the precise coverage of the transport data created by the debtor is of the utmost importance. As has already been said and followed by my presentation, the Alliance's Group will support the law at first reading and our support will depend on whether our comments will be duly taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u125	The text is given by the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, Mr Tillen Christmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u126	Dear representatives of the Ministry of Finance, honourable Members, honourable Members! In line with the pre-election SMC programme, which later became a major part of the coalition contract, we are now finally starting with the first reading of the draft law on tax clearance of accounts, which is often referred to in the public as a tax box law. The grey economy is estimated by the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia to exceed 8% of GDP, which is translated into money at around EUR 3 billion. That the problem is pressing and that it must be addressed primarily by changes in tax legislation, we are told that the main part is tax evasion. In the SMC, we are aware that everything cannot be moved from a grey field, but we believe that with the proposed law and complementary measures in this area we can do much more, as part of the reduction in the volume of the grey economy will also be reflected in the higher revenues of the state budget and thus indirectly shed some of the most pressing issues of this time: why there is a shortage of money for social transfers, for pensions, for health care, why the wages of some of our country's basic builders are poor, why there is no level of service or service provided by our country higher. With the tax confirmation of accounts, we will cover part of the grey economy that is particularly growing in cash transactions, undetected cash traffic with the final consumer is expanding upwards through the supply chain or production chain, and puts employees in a difficult position who can sometimes receive even the bulk of income in cash. It is therefore a matter of eliminating the negative multiplier effect on the economy due to the distortion of the competitive position of companies on the market and, as a result, the uneven distribution of tax burdens among the debtors, the additional pressure it exerts on the exaggeration of workers and work and on employment in black, the long-term questionable position of employees who will once retire and will have difficulty living their fall due to low pension bases, and the significant effects on public finances, which also impose disproportionate burdens on future generations today due to such shortfalls. The removal of negative effects is at the same time a prerequisite for facilitating restructuring or a deliberate reduction of the burden on labour income. The urgency of changes in cash management also shows the disproportionate burden on tax inspectors on cash controls. Over the past years, more than half of them have been involved in the inspection of this area, with the introduction of tax confirmation of SMC accounts, we anticipate that at least the following positive effects will occur in the area of tax control, control and investigation. In particular, the transfer of much of the latency tasks now carried out by inspectors to the information system, which will be able to detect and expose advanced algorithms and potential tax evasion, thus allowing inspectors to focus only on high-risk entities. By means of targeted controls, the efficiency of inspectors and the reduced administrative burden on debtors acting in an exemplary manner will thus make it easier to counter a downward trend in the number of tax inspectors. We anticipate that this will also lead to a shift of more than 100 tax inspectors to more complex cases, and to a more efficient and easier exercise of the tasks entrusted to tax controllers, and not least to a more effective combination and coordination of labour with market and labour inspectors. In the SMC, I am aware that the effectiveness of the proposed system can strongly trigger possible exceptions and therefore, except for solid reasons, we are not inclined to do so. As such, we understand, in particular, the potential mechanical equipment failures, the communication network, the power outages and the lack of access to the Internet. The proposal for a solution for such cases is already foreseen. During the public debate, it was apparent that no exception was envisaged for the smaller debtors, which is why two solutions are envisaged, which are likely to have to be further developed, but are considered a good extension to the upcoming tax system. During the transitional period, the proposal allows for the possibility to choose between the real-time tax clearance or the use of a linked account book with subsequent confirmation, the first option being offered in the form of an online account release application. The application will be offered free of charge by the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, which we welcome in the SMC, as we estimate that a large majority of NGOs and other small individuals have at least one member or co-worker with a smartphone or other device that simultaneously has access to the world's Internet. We are also aware of the additional administrative burden to be borne by companies. For this reason, the measure was announced already a good year ago in the pre-election programme of the SMC, then again in the coalition contract last autumn, in the action plan for the introduction of the tax registers at the beginning of this year, and we now rightly expect this law to be enforced 6 months before the application of the statutory provisions becomes mandatory. In contrast to the administrative burdens that we are also advocating and preparing in the SMC and will be announced in a short time, we believe that a reasonable increase in the administrative burden should be announced substantially earlier in order for the debtors to properly prepare themselves, specific administrative burdens are currently being prepared to a greater extent and, in our opinion, a slightly shorter period before the imposition of administrative burdens on the debtors should not cause problems such as the possible introduction of tax goods just prior to the present. Slovenia has no special features in the introduction of the tax registers, many countries already know them, including 15 Member States of the European Union, and it is expected that we will soon join some others. A key difference is that Slovenia introduces a more modern system, since countries that have established systems years ago, for example in the 1990s, have not yet made such progress in information technologies. The solution provided for by the bill, i.e. through automatic electronic clearance of accounts at the Financial Administration, has only become possible with an exceptional increase in data transmission capacity over the Internet, the progress of electronic devices, software and the possibility of effective and secure electronic communication and signing. This was an opportunity for a more cost-effective and administratively less demanding system for the state and the debtors, which will deliver significantly better results. The initial concerns about the high costs associated with the purchase of specific certified software and hardware are thus eliminated. An open approach, which only provides for a definition of the way in which data are exchanged with the Financial Administration, will avoid restrictions on any of the special and generally more expensive solutions on the market. The market for the development of business support software will therefore be open to all, including marriage companies and young information technology experts, who will be able to find their own business path in writing innovative and user-friendly computer programs and smart phone applications, which will be used in future to issue cash accounts. Except for the reasons for the rapid progress of information technology in the SMC, we support a two-year transitional period, as it will be an even better and more cost-effective software and hardware for the debtors at that time. Significant progress is also being expected in the electronic literacy of users and in e-commerce solutions. In the next two years, global and regional trends are expected to accelerate the use of e-accounts among both micro and small enterprises and, last but not least, we can reasonably expect to improve accessibility to the global Internet, coverage with mobile frequencies and new generations, and to build the capacity of the Agency for Communications Networks and Services of the Republic of Slovenia to issue a certificate of possible inability to access the Internet, which is expected to be relatively rare after a transitional period. Given that more than half of the Member States of the European Union already know tax receipts, we do not need to look too far to find practical effects. Following the introduction of the tax rebates, which are, by comparability, still the closest version laid down in this proposal for a law, have recorded a number of positive effects, which we are also looking at in the SMC. In addition to the increase in the number of employees in the sectors where prior employees were either partially or fully paid in cash, and consequently taxes and contributions related to personal income, we are also counting on an increase in the volume of registered cash traffic and thus a greater inflow from value added tax, corporate income tax and activity tax. We also expect increased liquidity and capital strengthening of companies whose share of transport has bypassed the cashier's business and consequently the company's transaction accounts, which will also have a positive impact on improved payment disciplines and creditworthiness. As mentioned in our opinion, the proposal for a law on tax clearance of accounts is one of the key measures in the field of limiting the grey economy and additional tools for preventing employment and working in black. At the same time, it is worth stressing that this measure will achieve the objectives that we have set in relation to limiting the grey economy in the SMC only if a number of accompanying measures are also in place at the same time. In particular, we have here in mind measures in the field of customer awareness and the promotion of commitment to voluntary disclosure of traffic, which we believe would make a significant contribution to raising tax culture in Slovenia. The fact that this is significantly lower than the SMC would have wanted is significant that in 2013 the National Assembly had to even legislate the definition and the high fines for software that allowed automatic and systematic fraud by erasure and adaptation of cash registers, stocks and so on. We therefore do not miss the innovation of the Slovenians, but we would also like to redirect it to a place where it will be used for more constructive and socially responsible purposes. We also see tax clearance as an important step in this direction. Furthermore, in the SMC, we believe that, in order to be effective, the tax registers need to be highlighted in addition to the customer's awareness of their rights, as the fact that the proposed system does not work unless the cash account is issued. In the latter case, the customer may have a big word either as a silent partner to the seller in the absence of an invoice, to the extent that it is indifferent, or in certain cases even as an trigger, as we ourselves have been warned by the craftsmen that they are placed in an awkward position when customers sometimes even require that goods or services be provided without an account. In the foreign, such solutions already exist mainly in terms of the duty to keep the account for a shorter period. The bill seeks to address two cases: keeping an account when the purchase is made in the business premises of the debtor and when the service or goods are charged at home. In the SMC, we believe that the comments and press releases so far have developed into a solid debate, which is likely to be upgraded in a reasoned manner today, and then in the legislative process below, there are effective solutions, which in a suitable and broader manner would also address the customer's responsibilities and duties. At the same time, we are committed to further encouraging buyers with measures that have proven effective in the past and do not overburden the competent authority. We have in mind, of course, encouraging the commitment to demand an account and any self-initiative SMS or online verification of those when establishing a suitable reward fund. This solution is not part of this law, but we certainly consider it an important complementary measure that will help achieve the objectives set. Your Honor! In the SMC Group, we support the draft Law on tax clearance of accounts and thus the introduction of so-called online tax registers, because we believe that this is one of the key measures to limit the scope of the grey economy and an important additional tool to prevent employment and work in black. We believe that, even on the basis of today's reasoned debate in the National Assembly, the proposal can together be upgraded to the extent that it will receive broad support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Ms Susana Lepi Šimenko will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u128	Dear President, honourable Members, distinguished representatives of the Ministry! Taxes are an important source of state funding at contributions, excise duties and other taxes. They enable financing of health care, education, pensions, social security, maintenance of public order, security, defence, due also to high indebtedness, to a large extent to service interest and our public debt. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we advocate a fair tax system and condemn the grey economy and work in black, but we do not believe that the proposed introduction of tax registers will incur the key, that is, we will not incur the grey economy. The proposed measure will not give us those who do not issue invoices, and these present a real problem in society, because they do not pay taxes and are truly unfair to all those who are doing their work honestly. The country already has a huge number of mechanisms and institutions that identify and sanction the grey economy and black work. Companies must also have, from 2013 onwards, so-called virtual tax warehouses that prevent the clearing of accounts. At the beginning of this year, all those who operate in cash without an appropriate computer program must have tied up accounts that we know have caused a number of problems at the time of introduction, as accounts in bookshops were not available for quite some time. It is indeed important to ask whether the country does not have enough other measures available to enable it to overwhelm the grey economy. Is this not a disproportionate and unreasonable measure? We believe that it is easier to use measures such as tax raising or, in this case, the introduction of tax registers. Unfortunately, on the other hand, there is absolutely nothing to offer in the direction of tax relief for companies most affected by this measure. 2. Article 2 of the Constitution defines Slovenia as a legal state, by legal doctrine and by constitutional and judicial practice, the essential components of the rule of law also include the prohibition of excessive State interference. In the case of the introduction of tax registers, it is an intervention by the State in an area where the State has already intervened several times; in 2013 with virtual tax warehouses and in early this year with the introduction of the bound account book. If we already accept the idea that this State intervention is necessary to ensure public benefit in the form of reducing the grey economy and preventing tax evasion and fraud, we are certainly asking ourselves the urgency of this measure. The urgency in the sense that the law's follow-up objective cannot be achieved by means of a lighter measure or even by making better use of the measures already introduced, for example by improving the working processes of the State authorities or simply by amending the powers of the authorities in charge of these areas. In doing so, we may also find an answer to the question whether the state authorities may be responsible for the situation in the field of the grey economy with their own rigidity in exercising their powers. We are also further interested in the appropriateness of this measure in order to achieve the stated objective; in recent years, a lot of time and money has been devoted to measures to achieve the objective of reducing the grey economy pursued by the bill's proposer. Of course, this raises the question whether this is not yet one in a series of quick-to-do unconformed measures and, in particular, a measure without a prior appropriate analysis and without a proper evaluation of the recently implemented measures. In doing so, we may find that existing measures need only minor changes that would not affect as many entities as we will if the proposed law enters into force. The question on the ground is also whether the consequences for small businesses in particular at the time of the introduction of tax cans are proportionate to the value of the target pursued or the benefit pursued by the State. An assessment of the financial implications of the bill shows that an increase in tax revenue from the clearance measure is estimated at between €50 million and €100 million. At this point, we ask ourselves whether the assessment of the increase in tax revenues is based on the measure itself, i.e. on the revenues that will result from the purchase of the tax box software and so on, or on the objective pursued by the proposal for a law, namely the reduction of the grey economy. It is not clear from the proposal for a law what percentage of the reduction in the grey economy we are talking about. We are also rightly asking whether, in particular, small businesses, these 80 000 taxpayers, will be able to bear the additional cost of purchasing the tax box as well as upgrades and maintenance of software. With this measure, we will be most affected by those companies that are already fighting on the market for their existence, but are ensuring the survival of many families. They deal with a number of unnecessary red tape daily, often unable or difficult to obtain credit, although it is mostly very low-value loans. Smallness makes it difficult to achieve price competitiveness and presents a major challenge for them to buy new machines. Businessmen often don't even go to the hospital, even if they're sick, because they know no one else will do their job. It is these small entrepreneurs who will be most affected by this measure that have certainly not affected our public finances. Regrettably, the proposed measure to introduce tax receipts can also result in the possibility that one of the entrepreneurs will cease to operate. I believe we don't want that. The additional financial burden for most companies is a major problem. The problem is also the uneven development of Slovenia. For we still have areas where there is no or extremely poor coverage with internet connection. While this option has been foreseen by the proposer and, for these cases, the undertaking will have to prove the inability to establish an electronic connection by means of a certificate from the Agency for Communications Networks and Services. However, would it not be right to provide first Internet coverage across the entire territory of Slovenia? Such coverage would also have a positive impact on the development of less developed areas. According to the law, companies from already disadvantaged areas will have to obtain the Agency's certificates, so you are imposing additional administrative work on them. Nor can we support the fact that the customer is being transferred to the customer's side of the obligation to keep the account until the warranty period. Whether or not the buyer will keep an account for the exercise of the right to guarantee is and must remain its decision. If the customer wishes to protect himself in the event of the exercise of rights in the event of a defect or a defect in the goods, he is already motivated enough and will also save the account until the deadline is reached. We therefore find the proposed penalties unnecessary and disproportionate in terms of the level. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group we oppose additional burdens on the economy, we are advocates of the opposite – advocates of tax and administrative burdens. With the proposed measure, the introduction of the tax registers will not affect the grey economy, as the tax warehouses will not solve the problem of non-institution and will create an additional financial and administrative burden mainly for the small economy. Therefore, we will not support the proposed law on tax clearance of accounts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u129	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members. Mr Uroš Prikl has the floor to prepare Mr Mag. Matthew Tonin. Here you go, Mr. Prickl.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! As we have heard, there is a whole new law ahead of us, a whole new regulation that aims to prevent or eliminate, in the final stage, the grey economy, and in particular to increase transparency in cash operations. The government has informed us of the action plan on how to reach this goal, the adoption of the law already in January and it is right that we have listened to it, and it is right that the Government adheres to the action plan which aims at the final stage of the adoption of this regulation. Of course, our thinking here in these solutions can be shared. Of course, I am trying to get all those who are doubting whether we are actually going to achieve the purpose of the law itself, but I am concerned that you are not proposing alternatives here. In the past, we had, remember, at the Ministry of Labour, also the Secretary-General or the Secretary of State for the Prevention of Grey Economy, as well as an organisational department dealing with this, and the results, even though it was good will at the time, did not bring the desired results. I believe in this law. I believe, on the basis of what we have heard from the Government, which is – this is my conclusion, and I think I am not wrong – very specifically and very deeply went on to prepare this law, and this is where all praise goes. I would like such a regulation not to be necessary, in order to be self-evident, that we all stick to the fact that we are issuing bills, that we are not faking matters, that we are not going to go to the grey economy, but how can it be made clear that there is a gray economy, or that through channels of the grey economy, we are going to slide, explode, disappear, however, a two-digit number, as a percentage, of which I am speaking, the Slovenian GDP. There is obviously something that needs to be done, and my position, my opinion, as well as my fellow Members in Desus, which we find to be the right step. Of course, it's far from the finish line. Here I sincerely wish to hear from the Government some opinions that say that some exceptions are necessary here, that we do not do some new administrative problems, that we simplify the procedures as much as possible, and that this is not an additional burden for all stakeholders in the processes. I believe we can do this. Last time we spoke in some of the previous debates, colleagues and colleagues stressed the experience of Serbia and, above all, Croatia. There are sumaurm positive effects. I don't know why we wouldn't notice good solutions from the good, positive practice of countries that have already done so and just keep going. Perhaps it is important here to explicitly point out those main ones, we said what is the main solution – eliminating the grey economy and increasing transparency, especially in cash operations. What are the main goals? I'd kind of define them in four points. Therefore, for the first time, to prevent the retrofitting of data on taxation and the avoidance of payment of taxpayers' tax liabilities in cash transactions. Secondly, transparent and reliable recording of the cash traffic of taxpayers, thereby reducing the scope of the grey economy and preventing tax evasion and fraud. Thirdly, to ensure more efficient collection of compulsory duties. Fourthly, the creation of more equitable business conditions, market regulation, the prevention of unfair competition and faster economic development. At the same time, this will also provide greater protection for those for whom, I believe, we care the most, these are final consumers. Perhaps just a reflection on a coalition agreement or coalition treaty, which is only right to expose it here. Last but not least, we try to do as much or all, if you want, things that are written here also come true. We have written here, either under the item or under the indent, whether you wish, payment discipline and the fight against the grey economy, and it says roughly: 'it will be necessary to strengthen supervision of the payment of contributions and taxes by employers and to introduce tax receipts to curb the grey economy. To this end, we will draft the Tax Offices Act within the mandate of the Government... " - Okay, it's a little different than that. "...the state must become a model mercenary..." – this seems very important – "the state must become a model payer and improve control over the remaining payers. Higher penalties will be imposed for those employers who are not in bankruptcy and liquidation and do not pay contributions for their employees" – we may have moved a little further here, but under this segment of the coalition agreement this is also the case. Of course, as I say, me and my colleagues in Desus support this idea. We would also like to take into account, as best possible, those comments that have been and that will be made by those who are most tense to make the system practical, simple, without administrative obstacles and at the final stage – and most to begin – to halve the grey economy and, at the final stage, try to eliminate it completely. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin, get Mrs. Urska Ban ready. Here you go, Mr. Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u132	Dear colleagues and colleagues! You know that saying, only death and taxes are inevitable. Taxes are of course important in every country, in every society. The tax collected depends on what the state can create, what the state can offer. Every thing needs money and everything the state gives us is financed by taxes. But in addition to taxes, another important thing: the amount of these taxes! Because if the tax is too high, then the country becomes unattractive to life and also to the operation of the company and people are leaving the country. Tax mathematics is very simple. It is important that taxes pay as many people as possible and that these taxes are as low as possible. It's a very simple farming logic. Even as far as tax avoidance is concerned, logic is simple; higher than taxes, more people will avoid paying taxes and more questions — with or without bills? I am also convinced that the country is not aware enough that high taxes further encourage black work. The State is also not aware that every employee has twice the benefit for the country. Firstly, it pays for all cash countries, and secondly, it does not have to pay for various social assistance. This is why everyone employed is twice the benefit for the country. However, I am convinced that the law we are considering today is not on the right track and that the problem of tax avoidance has gone wrong. Why? We're dealing with this in small fish, but we should be dealing with big fish. If I am specific, this weekend I attended the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, where I spoke to a Serbian colleague at the edge. I asked him how the reforms were going, because it seemed strange to me that there had been no protests in the country, even though Vukic's government had actually reduced pensions, reduced salaries in the public sector and things were moving forward normally. I asked him how this could have happened. And he said to me that it was very simple that they were consistent. We've managed to convince people that if we tighten our belts for a year and two, then we'll all live easier. He said that, above all, one thing was being done — and this seems very important to me in today’s debate — and problems were being tackled by large fish. First, they arrested and imprisoned Serbia's largest tycoon, Miskovic. Compared to having a better feeling, this is something similar to having Croatia shut down Todorovic. What happened to that? He said it was an incredible effect, a positive effect. After the closure of Miškovic, he said, all the entrepreneurs suddenly started paying taxes because they saw that now was no longer a joke. There is no commitment to this government and there are no exceptions. Everyone has to pay taxes. And he said a specific example of an entrepreneur who paid a million and a half euros tax on the same scale of business before Miškovic was closed, after which he was arrested. Isn't that strange? I think this example is very visual and very important that we should do this in large fish — those who owe the country millions. In fact, small fish are being caught with tax cans — those who are already working hard, working honestly, and who are having a hard time from month to month. Tax payers will be particularly affected by those who are already paying taxes and working fairly today, but they will not bypass those who are not already issuing bills because the tax office cannot force you to issue the bill. He just can't get you. And there's also no tool for chasing black work. My colleague Prikl said: well, in the opposition you speak of being against what your solutions are, what your initiative is, what is an alternative to this. Then tell me what you're for if you're against the tax office. I'll tell you. First of all, we're for flat-rate taxation. The issues are very simple, without any major bureaucratic and administrative obstacles. I can tell you a specific case. If you go to Austria for skiing or visit another inn or inn, it may seem unusual to have an account written on a classic paper sheet; and this is an account. This is possible because they have flat-rate taxes because they have agreed to pay so much and so much tax according to the square and according to the location of the inn. If you ask Slovenian innkeepers today, believe me, that many innkeepers would choose this option so that they would not have to cheat with bills or any other mouse working, they would simply know exactly how much tax they pay at the beginning of the year, and that would be all. So our first solution, our first counter-proposal to the tax box, is flat-rate taxation. The second proposal, positive incentives or the Chamber of Commerce, says: Each account counts. We will now, by law, force citizens to take the bill, because if they do not take it, they are being punished. Why don't we turn the story around to reward citizens with tax reliefs if they take their accounts, and the citizens themselves would be interested in actually taking these accounts? The third case – the opposite proposal to the tax collectors. Let us move more things from high VAT rates to low; from 22% to 9,5 in particular for those most risky products and services. Why? Because I am sure that many buyers encourage entrepreneurs themselves to do a certain service without an account. Then I'll go back to the specifics. Various mills, painters, who may be painting and doing certain services in some homes, are encouraged by customers themselves or by users of these services to do so without an account because they will thus save a fifth of the cost. This can represent an important sum of more than 1,000 euros. And the last, fourth measure that we also offer: better functioning of the rule of law. Not that before criminals and those who chain businesses and do harm to everyone, whatever happens, all those honest entrepreneurs to whom the barabbas are, in their own words, are already in debt. The imposition of tax registers will make the business environment worse, I am sure of that. Let me just give you two concrete examples. A few days ago, the New Slovenia Group visited Primorske and, among other things, visited the Piranese fishermen. They showed us those boats of theirs, and they asked us how and how to use the tax registers now. Where, where to put them?Oh, my God! The sea, the moisture, that and that. Because we're going to sell a few kilos of fish, we're going to just have to start or buy a tax box. I don't know if the pirate fishermen in those hundreds of euros of traffic they make during the season are such a big problem that they still have to be charged extra with the tax box. It's a concrete thing! And I'm afraid we're just going to destroy that last part of fishing that somehow lives and lives. Another example, which is also very specific and which tax collectors can literally kill or contribute to withdrawing from Slovenia, is online trade. Today, online stores are on the rise, it's a growing business. More Slovenk and Slovenes are taking decisions on online commerce. These individuals and individuals will also have to have a tax box, even though they already have virtually no business with cash, but they do everything through credit cards where remittances and flows of money are completely clear or through various interfaces such as PayPal. And we're going to be one of the few countries that's going to make this even more complicated. One of my colleagues has an online store where he sells lenses, and says he simply thinks that a company in Slovenia would close and move it abroad, because there is simply a better and simpler business environment. Now, if this is a measure by which we want to push young entrepreneurs and start-ups out of our country – okay; but I am not for this thing. Therefore, I think that the introduction of tax registers would be very damaging to this industry. I will oppose this law and hope, and I wish it would not receive majority support.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u133	Thank you very much. She asked the Mag for a word. Matthew Vraničar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u134	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to respond to some of the points made so far in the debate. Maybe I'll just focus on the most crucial, general, and I'd respond to more specific individual things as soon as something comes up. First of all, how does this bill affect the Slovenian business environment? Its regulation is also an integral part of a good business environment and this bill contributes to the regulation of the business environment. We all stress the importance of the so-called virtual tax registers introduced since 1 July 2013, but we forget that, in fact, honest entrepreneurs and economists of this kind used such cash registers, which allowed for an audit trail for any subsequent data change, voluntarily before 1 July 2013. Because they assessed it as necessary. But obviously things need to be prescribed in our environment, and then we can actually make some change. This change in 2013 contributed to the regulation of a certain segment of the business environment in Slovenia and thus prevented or limited unfair competition between a company or an entrepreneur operating in accordance with the rules and those trying to avoid them. The controls carried out after one and a half years after the introduction of this regime of virtual cashiers have shown certain shortcomings of this system. They have shown that there are still around 10% of those who use inadequate computer programs. It has been shown that the exercise of this type of control requires the extreme involvement of inspectors, highly educated inspectors on the ground and therefore the energy and human resources capacity to control the so-called large fish mentioned in the previous discussions are running out. This bill allows most of the controls that have now been carried out on the ground to be carried out online by means of information technology in the most modern way possible and allows the data obtained to be used for quality risk analysis. And this option, this upgrade distinguishes our system from that of any country that uses one or the other tax system. This will enable the use of inspectors more effectively both in the area of combating the grey economy and in the detection and prosecution of other forms of tax avoidance. Impact on employment on black. The account will show the identification number of the person who will issue the invoice. And this information can have a key impact on the quality or effectiveness of controls carried out in the field of employment and black work. And this supervision was taken over by the Tax Administration or, I apologize, by August of last year by the Financial Administration. The first results show remarkable success in increasing the declared revenue from corporate income tax and activity tax. But with this measure, we will be able to further improve this effectiveness. No billing. I have already said in the introduction that this measure does not prevent all emerging forms of the grey economy. However, we can seize one important part and redirect our capacities to other measures that are important both for the fight against forestry and for the fight against cases where the failure to issue accounts does not occur. The problem of buyers, their position and the provisions which affect their obligations in the law. This area, how to define the obligations of the buyer, was a rather controversial area in the course of public debate. There have been double proposals: on the one hand, we leave the buyer at the place, we do not deal with him, and on the other hand, the buyer is involved in certain forms of the implementation of the grey economy and should be addressed accordingly. So, whatever we do, part of the public will oppose any solution that we will introduce in the bill. As an example, we often find Austria, their flat-rate taxation system. Let me point out that in March Austria has also announced a major tax reform, and an integral part of this reform is the introduction of tax registers. Why? Because they identify a number of infringements, particularly in those areas which are subject to flat-rate taxation. Maybe just about VAT rates and repairs or adaptations at home. These things are taxed at a lower rate today. If we look at what goods and services we have in Slovenia at a lower tax rate and which we can have under European legislation taxed at a lower rate, I must say that we are a country that has the widest possible application of lower value added tax rates, and rarely are examples of delivery of goods or of the provision of services that do not fall under this lower rate, but given European legislation, we could. Who's gonna get hurt? It will be affected who, in the current legal regime, decides to break the law because it will have a narrow margin of manoeuvre. Those taxable persons who have introduced virtual tax rebates in July 2013 will continue to use these tax rebates. The only issue they will have to ensure is connectivity, online connectivity with the Tax Administration. And it can't possibly cost a thousand 800 euros or a thousand 500 euros! This number often appeared in public treatment, but was never specified. In our action plan, we have shown what, according to our field inquiry, between the bidders means for an individual taxpayer. Much depends, of course, on what equipment the debtors use today. Those who have concluded good maintenance contracts with IT companies and have cash registers as provided for in Article 38 of the Tax Procedure Act will not have any additional costs. Others will have minimal costs with upgrades. Those with nothing today will, of course, have to build a whole system in order to be able to participate in this process. In order to facilitate this transition, the law also provided for a transitional period, which was not in place in the first draft of the law that went public. But as for the specifics, [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mrs Urska Ban has the floor to prepare the mag. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go, Mrs. Urska Ban.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u136	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President! We have already heard in the debate today that according to the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, the grey economy in Slovenia is for a good 8% or in money is 3 billion euros. The problem of the grey economy is practically detected in all sectoral areas. Today, as has already been said, we are dealing with only one pebble in the entire mosaic, i.e. activities related to cash payments, where it is found that the phenomenon of the grey economy is also the most present. This measure of the introduction of tax warehouses refers to the receipt of cash for the carriage of goods and services, it is said that it applies to all those providing goods and services for cash. This project, a project for the introduction of tax registers, is being introduced on the basis of concrete data and findings resulting from tax controls that have already been carried out so far. Indeed, in July 2014, by supplementing Article 38 of the Tax Procedure Act, so-called virtual tax warehouses have already been introduced. This article or this addition to the law specified what technical conditions the computer program must fulfil if someone wants to issue accounts using such a computer program and such a computer programme had to provide a audit trail. A number of inspections have also been carried out under this Decision and the conclusions of which can be drawn in two groups. That is to say that those taxpayers who have already used computer programs instead of upgrading or adapting these computer programs to provide an audit trail have rather decided to suspend such a method of issuing accounts and have moved back to issuing an account in paper form. Even those taxpayers who maintain computer-based accounts are still using programmes that allow undetected change, erasing of data in computer programs. On the basis of these findings, a new legal measure, which has been in force since February this year, is supplemented by Article 31 of the Tax Procedure Act, where, where the debtor decides to issue invoices in paper form, it is necessary to use the special bound accounts that are recorded in the Financial Administration and thus to ensure traceability in such a paper manner of invoices. However, since we confirmed this legal amendment, we have pointed out that more effective monitoring is needed through legal measures. This is reflected in a significant part of today's proposal for a law on tax clearance of accounts or on the so-called introduction of tax receipts, in the sense that they will be directly linked to the computer system of the Financial Administration, which will allow first control and first control to be carried out computerically and further controls can be carried out within the framework of the Financial Administration, where further consideration of the data to be received by the Financial Administration in connection with the invoices issued will continue. Following this proposal, the cashiers will be linked online to the Central Information System of the Financial Administration. The debtors will send invoices for which they receive cash payments before issue to the FURS, which will confirm and store account details in the real-time issuance process. The procedure for tax clearance of accounts, together with the existing and previously mentioned amendments to Articles 38 and 31 of the Tax Procedure Act, will create a system that will allow traceability and effectiveness of controls over invoices issued and further limit the grey economy. The fundamental idea of such systems is, as I have already said, that each cash account shall be sent before issue to the tax authority where it is validated and stored. The debtor may use any electronic device with the possibility of accessing the Internet to issue accounts. It is an open system of tax registers without certification of hardware or software. Except as has been pointed out today, ensuring access to the Internet does not generally require specific additional costs for the debtors. In this case, electronic devices are ordinary computers, tablet computers, smartphones and modern registers, all of course with the possibility of accessing the Internet, which in most cases is also the only condition for the operation of this system. On electronic devices, normal cash registering programmes are installed with additional functionality for the exchange of data with the tax authority. I believe that today, a large majority of businesses cannot operate if one of these forms of electronic device is not already available. It is likely that those who will have to do the whole system are very few, or those who do the work in black and do not issue the accounts today. In this way, a cost-effective and administratively less demanding system is introduced, with significantly better results. The tax authority will store data on all invoices issued in cash, allowing it to analyse the data, compare the data of the various types of taxes received and so on. On this basis, the tax authority will be able to carry out targeted controls and plan further measures. The system will allow the inspector to have real-time data available in the control procedures, which greatly enhances the effectiveness of control. For example, in real time, accounts will be displayed and monitored and invoices issued vary during the day, during a specified period of time for certain venues where the activity is carried out. The chosen solution for the introduction of the tax registers goes in this direction, which I have now said and is also cost-effective and administratively low or least burdensome for the debtors. We often hear in the public that the tax system is unfair because it allows taxpayers who should be treated differently in the same or comparable situation, because someone can avoid paying the tax and others cannot. It is therefore the task of the tax system to ensure a level playing field for all taxpayers through measures requiring a relatively low administrative burden on the taxpayers and in order to prevent tax evasion or abuse. As has already been said, the introduction of tax warehouses is one pebble in the mosaic of the many necessary measures necessary to increase the efficiency of collecting public benefits. The fact is that avoiding or not paying is large, probably not only because of the crisis or inability to pay, but also because of intentional non-payment of taxes. It is therefore necessary to find a balanced combination of measures that will relate to increasing the efficiency of the collection of taxes, and I am talking about the development of tax culture here. Unfortunately, we have come so far in Slovenia that the concept of tax culture is almost profanity. We simply do not want or develop tax cultures, so we are always arguing about individual segments and not about a whole society that can effectively collect taxes. And until we win this tax culture or accept it, by then we'll probably be talking about whether to take a coffee bill, a savings guarantee, the amount of the costs to set up the tax registers and so on. In summary, the introduction of tax boxes is certainly an important element in improving the efficiency and fairness of the tax system in Slovenia. This is a measure to upgrade the efforts so far to reduce the number of infringements in this area. Of course, this cannot be the only measure, so it must be taken together with other accompanying activities or complementary measures, which have already been discussed today. It is necessary to find a way to increase the tax culture of customers and to increase the customer's awareness of how important it is to request and also take the account. The main purpose of the introduction of tax registers is therefore, in addition to the effective collection of taxes, of the awareness that we are developing, and this will also enable us a better country. If we all contribute to this and start talking about taxes in a different way, then we will probably eventually get even shorter waiting lines, better healthcare, higher pensions, better school system and so on. I think that our common goal is for the state to establish a tax collection system that will cover the widest possible range of people who are in fact also taxpayers to reach these goals that I have said. And this bill is certainly a step in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u137	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Marko Pogačnik, prepare Maria Antonija Kovacič. Here you go, Mr. Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u138	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Personally, I will not support this bill; but I will not support it, I would say, for a number of reasons. Now, I think that it is also a purely wrong opinion and a wrong view for the reasons presented by the Secretary of State, and in particular by some Members and Members of the coalition parties, that this law will infect or reduce the grey economy. I think that's actually the wrong opinion. Tell me, Madam Secretary of State, how you're going to make this law, with this addition, and with this change in the introduction of the tax registers, you're going to reduce forestry. This is a grey economy, and, above all, I would understand that in the position you would say, above all, that by this law, you would say, increase tax collection efficiency rather than reduce the grey economy. The introduction of tax rebates and, above all, the higher rates of taxation increase the grey economy. This has been demonstrated in general today in all countries, and history has shown this. The grey economy is increasing by increasing tax burdens. The former government of Alenka Bratušek, the current government of Mir Cerar, is headed primarily this way. Dear Secretary of State, you have been in three governments that have brought the most new duties and new tax burdens: the government of Borut Pahor, the government of Alenka Bratušek and the government of Mir Cerar. And in all three governments, you're Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance. Last but not least, under the mandate of Alenka Bratušek, you advocated a property tax on the Committees of Finance and the National Assembly. This grey economy is likely to only increase. Last but not least, Madam Secretary of State, Slovenia has about one billion tax debts. This is where I think we should take these measures. We have an active, we have an inactive tax debt, about 600 million of it, and here, I think, we should take the first steps. On the other hand, we have virtual cash registers, which are likely to have achieved one part of the positive effects; especially why I do not support the tax registers that you will introduce, especially for one reason. For those who do not put the amount in the register will still pass it; past and beyond the budget! See if one inn will have one big wedding – how will you identify the entry as the whole amount, not to type it in half or not to type anything? In the opinion of the Slovenian Democratic Party and in my opinion, a flat rate tax rate would be significantly more effective for Slovenia. In particular, flat-rate taxation of innkeepers, hairdressers, legal services and similar matters. I see you're writing and you're going to say we have a flat rate of taxation. We do, but it's too low. And that what you will achieve with this law will only achieve this, I am sure that the revenue in the state budget will be higher, and the question is how much more unemployment will result, and how much higher services or higher prices of certain guest services will be due to this. I would also like to ask: Will this tax liability apply to banks and mail? What is the issue with these financial services? This is very poorly defined in the law, we read, would you say certain doubts about card business, about PayPal – how will these matters be handled? In some cases – I interpret the Ministry of Finance as not necessary here – why don't you put these matters into the law itself and say that you remove this confusion, because we know that the Ministry of Finance is something and the inspectors on the ground are different. You are very fond of talking about the effect in Croatia. Croatia has introduced these tax registers, I think as of 1 January 2013. Indeed, in one year more than 13 billion kunas were shown and this was an effect. Of course, MEPs and members of the coalition, as well as the Secretary of State, forget to mention that Croatia not only went with one measure to improve tax collection and the reduction of the grey economy, but that they went with several measures at the same time. In addition to the tax registers they have introduced, they have, of course, reduced the VAT on innkeepers at the same time: from 25% to 10, they have reduced the tax base, i.e. they have offered a carrot and a stick. At the same time, they severely increased their sentences. That means you lower your taxes and then increase your sentence. And you're instituting, I'd say, just a tax burden, or I'd say an extra security seal, or what might that be called. I think that this will have a more negative impact than a positive impact on both the economy and the budget. It would make sense to say that now you have bank registers, the system will be more restrictive, but at the same time we offer you a lower tax burden, I don't know, for hospitality, for hairdressing services, those who are also, I would say, the most critical or the greatest risk of non-payment of taxes. But you haven't introduced any of this! As you mentioned earlier, how will you ensure that when this tax box is placed, someone will type in the account? He won't! This means that it will not still be a system that – I will not say 100% – ensures that the tax will not be taxed. On the other hand, services and the question of what will then happen in the future will of course increase. On the other hand, you now state that the cost for an individual should be approximately EUR 300. According to some of the calculations offered by the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce and others, this amount is expected to reach approximately EUR 800. If you can answer this question: What will be the cost of introducing tax bills for individuals who do not yet have tax registers? What will this cost be, by buying and then, of course, by maintaining it? On the other hand, what will this cost to FURS or the Ministry of Finance to be able to control this system? Is it really only going to be 2 million euros, as you state in the proposed law itself? The next question I would like to ask you is, above all, about software and suppliers. How will suppliers of cash or software be selected? In some media, we have seen that there is a huge lobbying process and that a meeting at the Government or at the Ministry of Finance has allowed one of the SMC Members only to one such provider. I wonder: In what way will the selection take place, and who can be the supplier for cashiers or software? Will this law, on the one hand, again be a basis for some individuals, some exceptions at the expense of the introduction of tax boxes and software equipment, I would say, fill their pockets? These seem to me to be the main questions I ask if you can provide the answers. However, as I mentioned at the outset, there are several reasons why I will not support this law and, above all, I am personally convinced that it would be significantly more effective, much nicer flat-rate taxation than the introduction of tax registers. The introduction of tax registers on the one hand will bring additional costs to entrepreneurs, especially small companies, but the effect that it would have would seem to me to be significantly lower than is expected here. You are referring to the amount of EUR 50 to 100 million per year in order to increase tax revenue, but, look, I am sure that a lot of money will continue to flow past and above all that the indications you have stated should be a key reason for the introduction of the grey economy tax bridging. I don't think you're going to be able to get rid of these with the tax stamps of the rainforests and these, and this thing is just going to get bigger.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u139	Thank you very much. She asked the Mag for a word. Matthew Vraničar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Some specific questions have been asked and I would like to answer them. First of all, forestry – yes, forestry is one of the emerging forms of the grey economy. In my previous intervention, I mentioned that we are not pretending to be able to address all the emerging forms of the grey economy with tax registers, but in an indirect sense we can also address the non-issue of accounts. Today, the Financial Administration, with the exception of field control, has no possibility of identifying the non-issue of accounts. By means of a tax system, by matching data on the deduction of entry tax due to the purchase of goods and services for the provision of taxable activities and, on the other hand, by not expressing revenue or exit tax and not issuing invoices, it will be possible to detect those who, on the one hand, enforce the deduction of the entry tax and, on the other hand, do not issue the invoices and thus do not pay that exit tax to the added value that they should pay under law. However, as I mentioned earlier, the tax warehouses cannot and are not designed to address all the emerging forms of the grey economy. They enable, as I said, one of the instruments of improved control and enable the staff capacity of the Financial Administration to effectively focus on those emerging forms of the grey economy and other forms of tax evasion that cannot be covered by tax registers. Other areas, tax debt, flat-rate taxation - I agree, these are areas to be addressed, and the Government has adopted a comprehensive plan of projects in the tax area to be undertaken or already implemented in 2015 and the very area of tax debt and to examine the effectiveness of existing flat-rate taxation are two of the projects that we are addressing in this context. I would like to mention that, not only because of the improved economic situation, but also because of the effective part of the Financial Administration, the tax debt has been reduced by 250 million in the last year and a half. It is still at a high level, unacceptablely high, and additional measures need to be taken to reduce this debt. In particular, the so-called active debt, which has been declining rapidly over the last period, but not in the way of essentially moving into an inactive or bookable debt, is called an irrevocable tax debt, but by actually reducing the total amount of tax debt. Flat-rate taxation – since late April we have received first data on the actual implementation of the current flat-rate taxation system. We need some time to analyse this data to find out what the shortcomings of the existing system are. And we will certainly meet frequently in the coming months at such meetings of the National Assembly because we plan to bring a number of proposals to the National Assembly this year, amendments to the various tax rules that will address tax burden restructuring on the one hand, on the other hand removing administrative barriers and on the third hand increasing efficiency in collecting public taxes. It is not possible to submit all the laws at once, so the Government has drawn up a plan on how to prepare individual measures and forward them to the National Assembly with the aim of making the main things, at least the most important ones, adopted by the end of this year. Banks and mail – there is no exception to the bill. Therefore, both for banking services and for postal services or goods supplied by them, which are sold via mail, account validation will have to be ensured. During the transitional period, these debtors, like the others, have the option to decide whether to immediately switch to the electronic validation of accounts or to use, in particular, the bound account book for field workers, postmen working on the ground, and subsequently enter it into the validation system, where this is likely to be the case. As far as online commerce and this PayPal payment system are concerned; in fact, the bill refers to cash payments, direct payments to the supplier or service provider. To the extent that payment is made through a payment service provider, which PayPal is essentially, then, by the very provision of the law itself, does not fall within this framework, but I agree that during the period until the second hearing, it is necessary to check whether the provisions relating to this matter are sufficiently clear and with the corresponding additions to the law in this direction to be amended or improved. Last but not least, this is the very purpose of such debates as today. The cost for an individual debtor; I have already mentioned that it depends on what system the debtors are using at the moment, and these costs range from EUR 0 to EUR 300 after our assessment, but of course we did not take into account the minimum required equipment to have in order to confirm the account. We have not taken into account the fact that the debtors want to link this system to keeping stock records, to their books of invoices issued and so on. The costs for the Financial Administration; the total costs, according to our estimate, are up to a maximum of two million euros and relate to the development of computer equipment that will enable the validation of accounts, as well as the development of tools or tools that will enable the preparation of the analysis, the carrying out of a risk analysis of a terrible large number of data to be obtained by the Financial Administration for this purpose. Selection of suppliers; this is precisely the advantage of the system that we propose: it does not require any selection of suppliers for computerised cashiers in taxpayers. The only thing we demand from taxpayers is to ensure connectivity with the computer system of the Financial Administration. And there can be no lobbying in the sense that only individual tax box solutions can be taken into account, because we consciously have not decided on a system that they know, say, in Serbia or what data we are looking for in Austria, to certify a computer, computer equipment, a printer with which a taxly recognised account is actually issued. As regards the selection of suppliers to supplement or upgrade the computer system of the Financial Administration, these procedures are carried out in accordance with the Public Procurement Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Marija Antonija Kovacič has the floor to prepare Mr Matjaž Germany.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u142	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your word. Greetings to Madam Secretary and to the team, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! As I have already mentioned in my position, this is a completely new law, which has been repeatedly discussed by including comments also from a broader public debate. This is the validation of accounts which constitutes an upgrade of the current system for the issuance of invoices using software which is in accordance with the procedure for the validation of accounts in cash operations by the State authority at the time of the issuance of the invoice. In doing so, we want to prevent the problem of the grey economy. Tax receipts will be compulsory for all taxpayers operating in cash, based on two bases, namely the online system of tax receipts following a prescribed procedure for verifying the accounts of the tax authority at the time of issuing the invoices and the use of the bound account book only in exceptional cases where there is no Internet, or in certain situations where an unforeseen electricity problem occurs. Due to these exceptional situations, the final provisions laid down in the law provide for a two-year extension of the period of entry into force of the law. The law also provides news about the co-responsibility of preventing the grey economy to customers of business services. We must demand an account and also keep it in evidence of possible control. This also involves the buyer in the control to ensure a fair distribution of the tax burden. The fines for an unissued account or for the non-absorbing of an account will be inconsequential, which has also triggered much controversy in the public. In the Coalition Treaty, we have committed ourselves to combating the grey economy and establishing payment discipline. The draft law before us is part of the whole process for the enforcement of tax boxes, which have proved to be an effective measure in most countries to combat the grey economy. To prevent the subsequent processing of data on taxation and avoidance of taxpayers' payments in cash operations, to ensure a reliable recording of the cash traffic of taxpayers, to ensure more efficient collection of compulsory duties, to establish more equitable conditions of business, to regulate the market, to prevent unfair competition and to speed up economic development, to protect the consumer and to prevent fraud are the objectives for which we will take part in our parliamentary group, so I will also support the bill's proposal to confirm the accounts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u143	Thank you very much, Mrs. Kovacich. Mr Matjaž Germany has the floor to prepare Mr Marko Ferluga.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u144	Thank you, Chairman. Certainly, tax collection and the grey economy are in some ways the cancer of our societies too. The Slovenians here are no exception, but with the knowledge that we need to change something, not only by adopting a new bill on tax clearance of accounts, we will have to do something in education itself or in education as a society, that we will be aware that it is our duty, but not just to adopt laws. But, well, I hope that there will be another opportunity to talk about this once, the very education itself, how to change society, how to pay the taxes and rights we have, so that it will in some way become self-evident. In order to achieve the latter, the government must certainly take other measures as regards the suppression of the grey economy. Let me mention only past bad decisions or not well made, such as the fallout or limitation on tax reform, the reduction of corporate income tax, the reckless change in the income scale and the tax on paid salaries. That is why I would like to point out that these measures have consistently been cut and cut by budgetary revenues in recent years, much in the way of decommissioning the richest, rather than burdening the economy with additional investment capital. The investment potential is closed, and we talk about this a lot. We know that the banking sector here is largely very conservative. While we support and welcome measures in the area of the resolution of tax receipts or payment methods, we also point out certain shortcomings that we expect to be brought closer to those most vulnerable in the course of the debate and proceedings. We all know that we have made promises that we will not tax the economy further and we need to find a way to ensure that such measures do not kill the economy. But well, we'll see where we are on the way across. I would like to draw attention mainly to preventive action, I was talking about education. Here I will stress the education of taxpayers, present risk factors, present, I will say, good accounting practices, display a good monitor and so on. In some ways, the social democrats are pointing to this fact in particular – otherwise Mrs Vraničarova, I think she has already highlighted and that there are possible arrangements here, particularly as regards the costs of introducing the system for the debtors. I am counting on the fact that there is still room for manoeuvre here, because, as far as social Democrats are concerned, these figures we are talking about are completely unacceptable. I do not think of myself as a taxpayer, or as a customer, that in the event that I lose my ticket, as has been said several times today, I will be forced to pay between €40 and €400 or €300 or whatever. But you have also made a few words about this, Madam Secretary of State, and I hope that we will clarify this fact in the future. It seems important to me that we will take into account in some way that the taxpayers who will use the cost of upgrading the information system to reduce the tax base. I think that people need to explain what else they can do on this or what we haven't done, and the good news — I hope that is true — is that, with regard to the financial effects of the new account validation system, the government estimates that the direct effects would be between 50 million and 100 million. Madam Secretary of State, let me ask you a question in this place, perhaps some more accurate assessments, I believe it is difficult to give, but some projections are how much will be collected at the expense of the new legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Ferluga has the floor to prepare Mr Jernej Vrtovec. Here you go, Mr. Ferruga.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u146	Thank you for your word. So I would like to focus my debate on a culture of tax evasion, which is a national sport, not just us, probably elsewhere in the world. But here we always find a million excuses, where to, how to, and why not. But the fact is, we all like to follow the northern countries, especially Scandinavia. And look at the fraction, which is not surprising, that there are the highest and very high taxes. But most people don't argue, they don't have problems, and they pay for them. Why? This is the question – why? Because it's in the culture of the nation. That is why I pay taxes because I want to have better social security, better education, better health care, and it is also appropriate to have people's attitude to do so, not that the main guide is how to avoid it. General human awareness, or better yet, ignorance of the negative consequences of not paying taxes on the whole structure of the country is still in some big clouds. We all come from a former country that was socialist, and, as in all socialist countries, the system was "get well", but in fact we have now come into another system that would like to have some order and, on this basis, also allocate resources for the functioning of the country. So that's one piece of this road. Tax evasion itself as such is somehow accepted among taxpayers as some kind of doing a normal state of the spirit. Society also rarely condemns such people, which is amazing. On the other hand, we have very serious problems with various other things. In my view, the relation to tax payments also depends considerably on the perception of the country's tax control over the individual. Thus, if an individual sees that the State actually does not care whether it is capable or unable to tax properly, then the national sport of tax avoidance is, clearly, quite clear. Here we are trying to do just that with this law; we are actually trying to do some sort of order, trying to be some mosaic, some first cube and a first piece in some system of complementary measures, some whole measures that will be linked to actually stopping tax avoidance. When we, the taxpayers themselves, feel that paying taxes is difficult or even impossible to avoid, then the tax burden will be clearly, evenly distributed and tax liabilities will be more evenly distributed. Thus, reducing and facilitating bureaucratic procedures and tax procedures of the authorities is another part of the deal. But it has to be started somewhere, and I think it's the beginning of the tax office. And this, as I understand it, is also the first step towards a comprehensive approach to tax legislation. As far as I'm concerned, I support this system and way of thinking that we need to start on some basic basis, build some solid base, on which the state and everyone else can rely, that all the taxes that are now, I will say, will be collected in the air. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr Jernej Vrtovec, let Mr Franc Laj be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Gardener.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u148	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the old Slovenian proverb says: Caesar, which is Caesar's. But that is also the case, but unfortunately this measure, the measure of introducing the tax registers, does not provide for this, and with this measure of yours, our emperor will continue to be too naked. I'm sorry and I'm sorry. You started on the wrong side. You're waving a stick instead of trying a carrot. So you go instead of positive stimulation – you said that no, no, we go straight ahead – with negative stimulation – we want to punish, we want to introduce tax bills and so on. Dear colleagues and colleagues, tax collectors are presented with an additional burden on Slovenian entrepreneurs, as was the case in Croatia. Not for these big companies, for those smallest, local, micro-enterprises. Last time I went to a restaurant for ice cream in our Vipavska Valley. They asked me, "Can you do something to make it not happen? Or pay us those tax receipts." That's what the owner of this restaurant says. Do you think he's some rich guy, some big tax evasion guy? You know it's not, because somehow we'll save or we'll get between €80 million and €100 million, that's what you wrote as the goal of this law. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Slovenian companies are already too busy today. And where does that feel? This is felt most in the everyday life of every citizen and citizen. It's too much of a crowd. You're ordering another one. So, lower taxes – more will be collected and less burdened by businesses – will be a better business environment. Also, respected colleagues and colleagues, as my predecessors have already said, do not solve the problem of the grey economy. In fact, if the tax box were the right measure in the fight against the grey economy, then the financial effects of this new law would not be between €80 million and €100 million, but more or less half a billion; half a billion would have collected more value added tax, but not more. You wrote it yourself. Dear colleagues and colleagues! According to statistics, the grey economy in Slovenia is around €3 billion, while informal data, including entrepreneurs and craftsmen, are much more based on the data available to them. Some 8 billion euros are also spoken. These are big numbers. So this law you're proposing, which is between €80 million and €100 million a year, is really a mineral drop into the sea. On the other hand, we have so-called nightmares, which, of course, are very competitive because they do not pay taxes. Here's the chance. But if we are already in the grey economy that you have decided to plague, otherwise, in our firm belief in the wrong way, respected colleagues and colleagues, the continuation of the grey economy is directly linked to the amount of taxation that I have already said, and this is also a more reasonable explanation that taxes are not paid than that people are corrupt and therefore do not want to pay taxes and simply shift to a grey economy. You come from this assumption. People would pay taxes if you were more tolerant, more acceptable. But no! You gave them a stick. This is also shown by statistics in other countries of the European Union. In fact, the share of the grey economy is high where there are high barriers to entry, because we have high taxes, high taxes, high burdens. Once again, I stress that the tax burden is indeed crucial. Of course, there is no need to ignore the administrative burdens of the business environment itself, bureaucratic inefficiency and the closure of markets through state intervention. I wish this law hadn't actually been adopted, it wouldn't have been suitable for further consideration also because you're giving a stick to people who go to the store and don't take their bills with them, instead of encouraging them positively, so to speak with the game Every account [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u149	Thank you very much. A few questions will be answered by the magician. Matthew the Vranic. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u150	Thank you very much. I'll start with the amount of tax revenue. Today or 2014 when we have the latest official data, the level of government revenue is around 85% of those public financial revenues, tax and contributions that were collected before the start of the crisis. While GDP began to increase in essence and at the end of the year or taking into account data for 2014, at 95 % of the pre-crisis level, taxes and contributions are still lagging behind. When we look at the international comparison or say something earlier — where are the reasons for this backlog? One reason for this is certainly the reduction of the individual tax burdens we have witnessed since 2008. One part may also be that we do not collect those taxes that we should have, but they were paid in advance. And the third reason is the increased volume of tax debt, although it also existed in pre-crisis times, but at a significantly lower level. Under these conditions, it is difficult to talk about the need to relieve or generally reduce the tax burden. Even if we compare ourselves with other countries, whether in the European Union or in the OECD, we will see that our burden of consumption and tax revenues is around the average and the burden of assets is far below average. However, when we add to the burden of income added to social security contributions, we see that, in fact, workers' contributions, social security contributions paid by workers, raise our average burden. These are the ones with us that are above average workload. But we know that these social security contributions are also linked to the rights that our social system guarantees. How much more money will be collected from this measure and what is the extent of the grey economy? Studies explaining the extent of the grey economy are huge and the official data is scarce. As a result of this, any speculation is far from too optimistic to collect 500 million additional revenue by bridging the grey economy. In view of the fact that we have provided additional 100 million revenues in the area of value added tax and, to a lesser extent, the corporate income tax and the activity tax, it is necessary to conclude that adequate controls bring additional revenues not because these additional revenues would be detected by inspectors, but because of the increase in the rate of voluntary payment of taxes. And this voluntary payment of taxes and the change in tax culture or education and education, as Mr German has been talking about, is also intended for the action already being taken by the Financial Administration in cooperation with schools, which is the financial reporting of children. Explains to children the importance of paying taxes and here begins a change in the attitude towards paying taxes and why it is important that public taxes are actually paid. I must say that I am extremely pleased with the success achieved by the Financial Administration with this activity, and I expect that this activity will continue in the next school year. We also anticipate positive incentives for customers to take accounts, mentioned already, to think or prepare the concept of the prize game. We had a similar prize game at the time of the introduction of value added tax and we would like to repeat something similar. Let me remind you, at the time of the introduction of value added tax, we also had the statutory obligation of the buyer to take the account when it comes from a store or a place. And we had the prescribed penalty, and then in a few years we abolished it, because it became unnecessary after the introduction or implementation of the VAT system. But similar solutions are used by other countries at a time when they introduce a system, one way or another, of tax receipts. Two more roots have been mentioned, lower the rates for guest activity and lower the rate for hairdressers. Ladies and gentlemen, today, hairdressers pay a lower value added tax rate of 9.5%, and in the restaurant, people's services are burdened with lower value added tax rates. Only the beverage service is charged with a general level, only this part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Lai has the word to prepare himself for the Mag. Ange Logar. Here you go, Mr. Ly.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u152	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Dear representatives of the Ministry of Finance, dear colleagues and colleagues! Maybe I'd start a little different. In my opinion, only a tax-regulated and legally regulated society and a country is competitive, healthy and can have one future. That is why this topic, which we are dealing with today, is not as simple as it looks at first sight. I'm lucky that I've had contact with the tax area in practice. And I will also tell you my experience of what this law that is before us brings us, and why I will also support it. Certainly a positive approach is already in place, namely to hold a public debate. At that time, we can get quality comments, and we have already received some constructive comments that are worth considering how to incorporate them into this bill. It's going to be very important what kind of submarital acts they're going to be. These will certainly have to be such as to establish such a system that is user-friendly, I think the Financial Administration already has a lot of experience in this area, with regard to these software solutions used for tax reporting, so that certainly the system available to all of us must be friendly and the entrepreneur must not be hindered at work. That is why I see a great improvement if that is the way it will be done. Since the use of solutions – modern communication and information technologies – certainly gives positive effects in this direction that the tax or financial administration – I apologize – can be more effective in simplifying the work of inspectors and thus increasing their efficiency. Let me give you a brief overview of the current situation. With non-on-line virtual cash registers, users have a number of major problems, because inspectors require paper-based extracts. And you can imagine when they write down kilograms of paper, take it with them, go to their administration, and go back, because certain things are not clear or they run into any problems; another conversation and another conversation are needed in order for them to do the right thing. Certainly this is an obstacle to business. That's also what the statistics show. Allow me to briefly present the statistics for the period 2008-2014. 11 000 873 inspections have been carried out in the area of treasury supervision, of which 3 000 630 cases have been found to be irregular, representing approximately 31 % of the cases. However, this matter shows clearly where our tax culture is and that steps are needed here to improve the system, so that inspectors can relax in this area, have fewer jobs, are not so tight and can also deal with other controls, so to speak. This is extremely important and I think that this system certainly has great positive effects in this direction, so that it can also actually happen in a scratch. I do not understand the opposition to the introduction of these modern technologies, once again, both communication and information, because these are the first steps, I can say, into digital society. Too bad my colleague Horvath Joseph isn't here, he's a very big advocate of the digital agenda, and I think this path leads that way. And why not take advantage of the competitive advantages of these technologies at our disposal? This certainly also contributes to a more orderly business environment, to a fairer sharing of tax burdens, to reducing the grey economy – why? This reduces the uncontrolled volume of cash transactions. If this scale decreases, there is also a decrease in the possibility of black pay and other illegal work that is outside the economy that we have under control. I fully agree with the Secretary of State, it is very difficult to assess the positive effects in the financial sense, whether it is 50 million or 100 million, because we do not know – I fully agree with you, a few studies I have watched, one speak one another – the extent of this gray economy. I think a very harsh assessment is possible, but this one is questionable. Surely, one very important fact is that we all have to take responsibility for raising tax culture and every time we do not require an account for the service or goods we have bought, it means that we support the grey economy, consciously, and this can only harm us: each individual and society as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u153	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Ange Logar, get Mrs. Vojka Shergan ready. Here you go, Mr. Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u154	Thank you, Chairman. Well, I would still ask that in some way we remain realistic in this room, and we do not say such things, that the introduction of tax registers will be the first step into the information society in the new ICT technology and so on. The new information technology and companies are designed to simplify business and the government itself recognises that the introduction of tax warehouses entails an additional administrative burden on the business sector. in this respect, it is a step back rather than forward. This government meeting is kind of specific. In fact, no law has been proposed by the SDS Government at this meeting, so the meeting itself ends – the National Assembly, yes, thank you! – complete after two days of discussion. The same law is in this session, which the Government has prepared in its own capacity, not on the basis of European directives, of late European directives. I'm the law. And this marriage also brings — what? New administrative restrictions for entrepreneurs! The government hopes from this law 50 to 100 million euros in revenue. When you debaters of coalition parties found that this really stinged the ransom against all the big words when introducing this new administrative obstacle, you began to relativize this amount; czech, no one knows today what the proceeds of this law will be, but let us trust the Ministry of Finance, they wrote in a proposal of government material from 50 to 100 million and we operate with this number. Members of the SMC had previously interpreted catastrophic figures on the volume of the grey economy over 3 billion. This amount of 50 million therefore represents 1,7 % of this grey economy. For the banks, the 5 billionth hole, we've given a hundred times as much. So we have a hundred years to fight against the grey economy, to close the hole that those great cheaters have made, and those who have impoverished our economy no longer deal with them. On Monday, Minister Marble said in response to my question that closing the budget and getting out of the crisis is a key economic growth and one of the key measures, he said, is reducing administrative barriers. Today, the Secretary of State, a three-time secretary of state from the same ministry, comes with a proposal from the Government or the Ministry of Finance, where it provides the opposite, introducing new administrative laws. If you listened to the debates of Members of the ruling coalition, they were particularly graphic from Desus, and read the exact government material, from which a spirit is drawn. Entrepreneurs are crooks! See, 30% – we have heard before – tax evasion has been detected in tax controls. Otherwise, count this to an amount, you'll get to an amount like that in the material, $11 million. For the two private banks financed by taxpayers, we paid 450 million Euros to Forum 21 banks – those who renegotiated us. So much so that this picture will be more accurate. Well, you say, entrepreneurs are scoundrels, and Secretary of State of Vranicer's has gone one step further. 20 minutes ago, she said the buyer was involved. The buyer is complicit. In what? In crime? In what? In tax evasion? Listen; therefore, the focus of the Ministry of Finance is to persecute buyers and those who create. Not those who gambled on our future with fabulous amounts when they received over 100 million euros for missed projects on the phone from Nova Ljubljanska Banka and other state-owned banks! Not that one; no, the buyer is complicit. And Mrs Vraničerová explains this, but why they proposed these legal definitions, roughly as follows: surveillance has shown that some of the solutions introduced by virtual tax warehouses are inadequate. On the one hand, the government or the ministry boasts with the effect of these tax receipts, virtual ones, and then in one paragraph in that material, it says that something was also seriously wrong or that something needed to be fixed, and now it is necessary to introduce these new tax receipts, among other things, it says that the tax lacquer, that is, the dacar from his chair in the cold office, will be able to monitor the functioning of those who are working in the way of the face on the market. Look, just one piece of information. In 2014, 5,000 checks were carried out due to black work and EUR 280 000 of fines were found. That's 57 euros for individual supervision. I assure you that the cost of control was higher than that of the fine. And even earlier, as I mentioned, for the two private banks of Forum 21 to continue to laugh at us from the front pages, we paid the taxpayers 450 million, so the government is not preparing any law to incriminate those who so borrowed money. Mrs Vraničareva said, even honest entrepreneurs are for tax collectors. Here we have a whole bunch of these papers, when everyone, the Chamber of Commerce, the Union of Consumers, the lawyer and so on were excited about the introduction and pointed out the inadequacy of such a proposal. And more! Here I have an invitation to the 13th Trade and Entrepreneurship Forum. I got it today. What is the top ten demands of Slovenian craft and entrepreneurship – a different installation of tax registers! And you're here to convince us that honest entrepreneurs support tax receipts! So those who participate in the 13th Trade and Entrepreneurship Forum are, in your opinion, unfair because they put different arrangements first. Previously, you said that in this special tax project, Austria has also announced the introduction of tax registers. Yes, but be honest, tell us everything, just for the risky cash groups and the cost of the introduction, 50 euros, the state pays. We have up to a thousand 500 euros for those entrepreneurs who do not yet have it in us, and all along the entire line of those who are working hard on the market. Then you suggest or present some countries in government: Portugal, the limit that is applicable in this country is 100,000 euros. Why don't you introduce or suggest something like this in Slovenia? Why don't you leave small entrepreneurs alone to create for their survival, for their families, maybe for some extra employee? Sweden, for cash payments over €18 000 600. If Sweden can afford it, why can't the Slovenians do that to me? Moreover, larger companies have been exempted, for which the tax administration has found that they have a sufficiently good system of internal controls. So Sweden trusts its companies and the Ministry of Finance does not trust the Slovenian enterprise sector. What message is this to those who make most of our revenue so that, Mrs. Vraničareva, you, as a public servant, as a civil servant, can receive your salary, and all others, including us Members, and all those who work in the public sector, if you inform them or if you do not trust them in their fair business? I assure you, whoever is looking for work on the market and depends solely on his ingenuity and ability and maturity and diligence, will do everything in his power to do what is right. If you lower his taxes and make it normal without unnecessary administrative obstacles, he will be even more happy to pay taxes so that he can work normally. We also have a proposal for this law, a lot has been said, but see, there are such absurdities that we still need to go over the provisions of this law once again. This 17th article, which incriminates the buyer or Mrs Vraničarova says that the buyer is involved, will cost us up to EUR 400, i.e. the buyers. What the inspectors will call at my house, while they will first find in their cold office in the chair that I bought, I don't know, a freezer or a freezer or a stick mixer, they'll ring my doorbell and say, "Show that bill for a stick blender." Why, if we use and introduce modern electronic routes, that a public servant has all the information collected in one place, then why does he still have to check with me as a buyer? Why? He's got all the information on the tray about what someone's selling and the buyer's what they bought. Then why does he have to check on me if I have this account on me? And go ahead. What happens in those parts where God forbid there's a flood again and the bill disappears? Or someone who issues thermal bills, has it in his pocket, warms up his chair a little bit or has a heating seat in his car and his account fades. Then what? How are you gonna check that out? And go ahead. 50,000 euros will be fined by someone who will not establish an electronic link within the prescribed time limit and send all the details of the invoices issued. We have the stomach, the tree falls, all the cables, and the wi-fi doesn't work, and so on. Within two days, as stipulated by the law, the consequences of the acorn have not been remedied and this person will therefore be punished once again according to the provisions of this law. 75 000 euros will also be paid by someone who has issued an account that does not, say, have the minutes of issuing the account. And beyond that, up to €150,000 will be someone who, because of the perpetrator's intent or purpose, will be beneficial. Watch out! The Slovenian courts, in the framework of the judicial investigation, have difficulty in establishing the perpetrators of fraud in the evidentiary standard. What mayor they can't find him with, but here the inspector on the spot at the store will find out who did it and give him a penalty of 150 thousand euros! What does the Minister of Finance or the legislator or inspector put above the judicial branch of power? What determinations have you entered in this law and beyond in those last articles, 26, when the law enters into force or when Article 11 of the Law expires, 1 January 2018, that is, when that book of bound accounts is no longer available, all by electronic means. Will you write down the right to the internet in the Constitution first? For if you do not – how will you require someone who does not have an electronic connection to provide you with an electronic account? I come from the constituency, which is close to Ljubljana or Ljubljana, one part of Ljubljana, and I assure you that there are plenty of guests and facilities and those who are engaged in activities that do not have this internet connection and will not have it in due time. But they're working really well. Maybe it's much better than the one who calls the bank and says, "Give 100 million to this company to finish this project." And what you're going to get from him will be much less than what you're going to pick up from this mayor or whoever's connected to him. A colleague of Banova is also the president of the Committee on Finance here in the National Assembly, i.e. a very important function of visa to the Minister of Finance in the legislative branch of government, said that we are not developing a culture of taxes. Look, how do we develop a culture of taxes if you always raise taxes? In this national assembly, in this mandate, the only proposals we received were tax increases and taxes. That's it. You expect us to raise taxes by raising a culture of taxes or paying taxes? And if we incriminate the buyer, then we will take one extremely good educational measure. This educational measure will force us to develop a Slovenian culture, greed and greed according to the greatest possible desire to pay as high taxes as possible. Now it's the best thing about this whole thing. The government, as a goal in this paper, identifies the prevention of unfair competition and the main objective of the bill is to prevent the grey economy. The main objective of the bill is to prevent the grey economy. Look, now here I have an action plan for the introduction of tax registers, which, ups, has been prepared by the same ministry as this law, where on page seven it says "... the weaknesses of the proposed solution, the increased risk of non-issue of accounts. The main objective of the law is to prevent the grey economy and the action plan notes that the main disadvantage of this proposed solution is to increase the risk of not issuing an account. So this marriage proposal of yours is contrary to what you stand for in the explanation of this law. Let him know who can! And they are not guilty, nor are they guilty who work in the way of their faces for their daily bread! No, no, no. The uncompetitive economic environment is guilty of excessive taxes and it is the system that has not condemned the biggest fraudsters, the crooks who are in some way in their example, because they are still being talked about today, that has set up a system in which I agree, and the non-payment of taxes is not as unacceptable as it should be. Failure to pay taxes is unacceptable, but with the proposal you came to the National Assembly, you will only increase this inadmissibility and increase the grey economy, as you can see in the Action Plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u155	Thank you very much. She asked the Mag for a word. Matthew Vraničar, Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u156	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll start with the next one. I am sad and dismayed because, as long as we discuss such a law in the National Assembly, we show in our language such a humiliating attitude towards people who are responsible for tax collection in the system of state administration and – not for mine – for your salary – we will have a very difficult time talking about tax culture. And the way in which you refer to the employees of the Financial Administration by "davers sitting in chairs in cooled rooms" is unacceptable and offensive, regardless of your right to speak as a Member, whatever comes to mind. So much for the intro. About the other questions you've raised. No billing. I've already said three times today, and I'm going to do a fourth time: not betraying accounts is just one form of the grey economy. And yes, those who today manipulate the issuance of invoices, change the data in the invoices issued, collect the bills from the table and delete them from their computer system will decide by introducing this system whether they go entirely into the black economy or, in fact, start reporting taxes slightly differently. As a result, these two acts, the action plan and the law are not in conflict. The law is an instrument and measure to combat the grey economy, one of its emerging forms. And the danger that exists in this regard has been identified and must be addressed by means of accompanying measures. Once again, the amount of taxes collected today is 85% of those collected during the pre-crisis period. So, don't tell me in general about the fact that Slovenia's business space or the Slovenian environment is overloaded by excessive taxes. We can talk about tax cuts, but then at the same time let's talk about which public expenditure we will no longer provide in the public system and we will essentially pay them, each of us, from our own pocket. What's the state paying for? In Austria, you mentioned the case that the state would pay fifty euros to any entrepreneur who would have to have a tax box. In Slovenia we have a system whereby a taxable person who invests in the upgrade of a system also has a 40 % investment relief in addition to the tax-recognised expenditure. This will benefit all those who will have to invest additional resources in improving their existing system of accounts. Of course, we only make investment easier if they have to invest in something called a basic asset. What if an account is issued or operated in an environment where there is no internet connection? The law provides for a solution, in which case the clearance of accounts is not necessary and a bound account book can be used. My statement about honest entrepreneurs. My statement has been ripped out of context and misquoted. I spoke about the fact that those entities, economic operators operating in accordance with the rules before 1 July 2013 did not use them to issue invoices for computer programs that allow the deletion or modification of data without having to record an audit trail. And that's all I ever said! Exceptions. The public debate was precisely the requirement of the Chamber of Commerce that there should be no exceptions. And we followed that request. You want us to go to a regime that they know for example in Sweden, where there is no online connection to tax registers, and the biggest systems are exempt; that is, mail, banks, mercators, showers, spars and similar taxpayers. However, small taxpayers are obliged to have a tax box. We do not want to introduce such a system; we want to have a system that is equal to all those who are committed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u157	Thank you very much. A replica? Here you go, Mr. Mag. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Look, Madam Secretary of State, if I've hurt you with the term dacar, I sincerely apologize to you. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Wait, you've expressed yourself on their behalf, I don't know if you're a dacar or not, but as I said, I sincerely apologize to you. The fact that they're in cold offices holds, because in Dursa they have air conditioning devices, but I will not allow you to be here, in the National Assembly as the executive branch of the legislature, to say that as a member of the National Assembly, I can say what comes to my mind. Look, I'm speaking on the basis of what you've prepared, I can say, so you've prepared what's on your mind and I've adjusted my debate on this. Now, you have received a statement that it is not true that we should not generally say that the Slovenian tax system or the Slovenian tax system is overloaded by excessive taxes. Dear Secretary of State, look at the magnetogram of Monday's response by your Minister, Mr. Mumorr, where it is clearly written, said himself that Slovenia is overloaded with certain taxes. Can I tell you if you're going to jump into words? Because I'm not you. And if he has spoken in general, I can probably, too, if I should respect the words of the Minister, and if I should trust the words of the Minister, if that is not the case with the Secretary of State, you would probably point out to your Minister that he should no longer speak in general in the National Assembly. As for the case of Sweden, which you have now pointed out as Czech, we do not want such a case – yes, because the government has given the case of Sweden in its proposal for a law in this paper! So you have invested in the material itself a country where you do not want to follow suit, but you have used it as an argument to justify the introduction of tax registers. See, there must be some consistency in this implementation. In the future, if you do not want to be reminded of the non-consistency of your government materials, I suggest a very simple solution; do not come with bad laws in the National Assembly. And don't lay in my mouth what I want, because I haven't said a word about what I want. I was just asking why you do not offer such a solution in Slovenia. This is your explanation that you just wanted to establish a single system without exception [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u159	Three minutes, Mr. Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u160	I'll take that as your explanation. [[…]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Mrs Vojka Šergan has the floor to prepare Mr Marijan Pojbič. Here you go, Mrs. Shergan.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u162	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! Unlike the predecessor, because we have read the same law, I will present this law more positively or see it more positively, and even when I met with entrepreneurs from the smaller chamber last week, when I answered some questions and dilemmas, I must say they were not as negative as I am listening to some debaters today. So, why the introduction of tax receipts? The current model of virtual tax warehouses in the form of software has several shortcomings, so this deficiency can be addressed by upgrading the existing system; it is an online tax system where the exchange of information on invoices issued with the tax authority takes place in real time. Each cash account shall be sent before issue to the tax authority where it is confirmed and stored. Several invoices issued in principle mean more taxes for the provision of public services, more contributions for the financing of health services, more pensions. In the Modern Centre Party, we expect to use the tax proceeds to be made by the tax collectors in reducing the tax burden on work in the years to come. What about the cost of introducing tax bills? For those who already have computers and the Internet, costs will be negligible, otherwise this will be a taxly recognised expenditure. When purchasing computer equipment in the year of purchase, the taxable person may apply an depreciation rate of 50 % and an investment relief of 40 % of the invested amount in equipment and intangible assets shall be recognised in accordance with existing legislation. What about those who will use the bound ledger during the transitional period? The transitional period will be up to 1. 1. 2018, i.e. two years. They will have the obligation to confirm all accounts issued using the bound account book within 10 working days of the date on which the invoice is issued to the tax authority in the same way as in the case of the failure of the electronic account issuing machine. Therefore, during a transitional period, the debtors may decide freely whether to use an electronic device or a tied account book. In the SMC, we also support all the solutions that will change the country's tax culture, which is why the law punishes those who do not issue invoices and for those who do not take the account. In the SMC, we expect that this is how taxes will be paid by all those with taxable earnings, because if we pay taxes by all, there is a real possibility that they will be lower in time. That's why I'm going to support this marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u163	Thank you. Mr Marijan Pojbič has the floor to prepare Mr Ivan Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u164	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President! First of all, when we discuss these laws, it must be very clear to all who are sitting here in this Parliament, because those who pay taxes are very clear. Those who pay taxes, and those who represent them, did not give free warning to all Members, all Members, all Members for reasons why they object to the introduction of tax rebates in the way this law was prepared by the Government. Personally, I am sure that the state must provide, therefore, conditions for everyone – I am talking about those who pay taxes – that, in addition to paying the tax to the State, they can survive. I can't imagine things going any differently. In our country, however, the matter is upside down: those who are still paying taxes and who are still able to pay them, need to be further squeezed, additionally charged, put them on the ground, instead of being held accountable by the State and all those who are responsible for the functioning of this country, make it possible for those who pay taxes to live a normal and decent life. If we do not do so and continue with such and other administrative measures to further burden our economy, economic operators, tradesmen and so on, the question is how long can we talk about whether next month we will still be paying for us sitting here and for the entire contingent of state and public administration and pensions for pensioners and pension payments for pensioners. How long will this be possible if we do not have entrepreneurs and craftsmen; those who create and pay through taxes into the state budget, pension registers, medical bills and so on? Our first, primary task of the legislative branch of power, the executive branch of government and the third branch of government should be exclusively directed to do everything necessary; and in such a way that the businessmen, entrepreneurs, small entrepreneurs and all those who pay into the cash registers I have talked about can do business normally. Believe me, the flossules that I am listening to here today, I am listening to as some of the party secretaries back in time, in history, if I remember only the words of Moshe Pijad that I am talking about here, in this House, if I remember this, and today I have just the same feeling that in some situation, we are living in a country where party secretaries say, "Dear ladies and gentlemen, this is ours, no matter what the cost. Either you exist or you don't." But they don't wonder what happens to the next generation coming after us. During this time, we have committed ourselves almost to the upper limit. We're almost 30 billion in debt, I think between 88% and 92% of the gross social product. What about when the moment comes when we can no longer be in debt? Entrepreneurs, craftsmen, if we do this, what we do with this law, they will no longer be able to pay the tax and they will go among those who will be at the Employment Institute. Who among you knows how to answer the question of how the country will function at that time? Who will provide a basket of health services? Who will ensure that respected colleagues from Desus will receive pensions that speak complete nonsense here today because I will quote one sentence that I heard here today because I felt sick when I heard it? I have to warn you. I will also tell you who said it, so you are not all Members of Parliament and Members in Desus in the same basket. And look, if we don't clear up this dilemma here and these problems in the way that I've been trying to present them right now, then believe me, we're all going to have a wonderful end. It's over! The question of professors, the question of doctors and so on and so on and so forth. And also, of course, those who still receive 200, 300 or 400 Euros of pension today, as well as those who already receive a minimum wage. On the other hand, my colleague Ange Logar was talking about us hunting those who are fighting to survive here. And these little entrepreneurs and craftsmen are fighting to survive. Look, if there is no one among you who would ever be an entrepreneur, a craftsman – I was, consistently paid every cent, but with extremely big problems because the wages of employees are overloaded and so on, I will not explain all things. All these innkeepers we talked about don't just have VAT to pay and so on. Where is SAZAS, the IPF, and I don't know how many of these checks they get to get people involved! And here we're doing a little -- so, a little joke, a little joke -- throwing the law on the table, it doesn't matter if we put extra burden on entrepreneurs and craftsmen, the main thing is that the government is working. And this government is working. Have you seen how fantastic it works? It destroys the Slovenian economy! We cannot afford this in the Slovenian Democratic Party, and we have also said that we will not support this law in any way. No way! That's it! In 2013, an agreement was adopted between the social partners, which made it clear that there would be no additional burden on the economy. It is true that they are trying to warn from the ministries and governments over and over again, if it is true that we have agreed with the social partners, but at the same time we have said that the tax on cash registers, i.e. cash registers, and property taxes go hand in hand with this social agreement. But look, dear colleagues and colleagues! I ask you whether this is what was agreed upon in that social agreement. Therefore, the economy will not be burdened further. Was that written? At the same time, we already have such a small annex to the contract, as in this country is a great story, when some of us would not say the mafia that stole the Slovenian country, which had 27 in the back, or I don't know how many annexes when it came to building this oncological institute in Ljubljana and so on, I don't know how many of them there were and when we're talking about it; but there was no question where that money was. And they didn't watch every cent he gave it to those poor little ones who earned 3,000 euros a month, either he issued the bill and so on and so on. There's no problem for those! My colleague, who spoke before me, who was talking about banks, the two we gave 500 million euros in them, to the tycoons who stole the Slovenian state, we paid the story – and here it is nothing! This National Assembly – as if nothing had happened, except the Slovenian Democratic Party and the New Slovenia, which we have always warned very loudly about. We say, look, we don't hunt chicken thieves in this country, we make order at the head, we grab the bull by the horns! For God's sake, let these farmers tell you if you're not capable of understanding this! Yes, of course, these clean state bureaucrats find this very difficult to understand because they have never worked in their lives. Look at this! They enjoy, they get their salary, they do so or so, the month comes around, they get on their account charged so much and so much money. You can talk, Mrs. Vranitz, whatever you want. In this country – and I will say this now – I must say that we will not get things wrong – but there are also some honest, good state bureaucrats. That's what I have to say. But there's a lot of people hiding behind those good guys. Recently, I had an opportunity in the administrative unit in the Posnica – I have to say this because it seems very important to me – one state bureaucrat, which was excellent, I took the hat down, and I said, I have never met such a state bureaucrat in my life, and today I tell the entire Slovenian public that I congratulate her on the existence of such people in Slovenian bureaucracy. It's amazing what I haven't seen. He has a month to work to draw up a story; this lady has done so in three days. You can't believe this, and I was shocked. I went to this lady, I said, look, I take my hat down in front of you, and I'm so proud [[…]] I want to say this, and I want to go back to the proposal of this law. So there are even in this society in the very bureaucratic system fair, decent and so on, people. But the problem is with a large majority, but today it works in such a way that we do nothing. Because if they don't do anything, they can't answer for anything. You know. Mrs. Vraničar is always pushed to shit, sorry, but the minister is hiding, and she has to defend things that neither the majority of Slovenes nor the Slovenes are at heart. But, ma'am, I feel sorry for you. Really! Since it's been a long time, I see her there, all pale, exhausted, I'm really sorry. I mean it. It's not funny, it's real. Those who hide behind decisions that have malicious stories in the back for their purposes send innocent people to fight here with us, fight and so on and defend what they themselves do not believe. I am almost certain that Mrs Vraničar in this situation – now I am speaking in this situation – does not believe that this is the right solution for the situation in this country when we are talking about the grey economy. I don't think so. Ladies and gentlemen! Look, we discussed earlier that it is very important when we are also talking about some social agreements, when we are talking about who is the one dealing with certain things, and that we need to listen to those, and in accordance with those, to draw up appropriate legislation that will also be acceptable to that structure of people and today we are talking about entrepreneurs and craftsmen. Look, Mr Meh, who is president of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia, among other things, I will only read two things, wrote the following. First, under number one he wrote – and all of you Members and Members got it on the bench, and not one of you today even mentioned it almost. You were all pretty quiet, and they were like they weren't there. The following has been written: "The measure of compulsory use of tax warehouses is an extremely partial measure which affects only the field of registered activities. This measure does not therefore solve the problem of tax evasion, which is carried out in the form of non-invoicing of accounts, but does not, in particular, solve the problem of tax evasion in activities which are not registered or where registration is not necessary. Despite the introduction of the tax registers, the failure to issue the accounts will still be a problem." And under point 3, Costs, they record the following – the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia: "Being aware that we are assessing that so far virtual tax warehouses are appropriate, which are mandatory from July 2013 and with which business operators have already had costs, tax extra costs are for both taxpayers and for the country. Therefore, the costs of the introduction of tax boxes, including the costs of the internet, the maintenance and purchase of the necessary machinery in respect of the debtors, should be fully financed by the State or given to the entities free of charge. The costs will be higher for an individual undertaking if, according to the size of the premises, more cashiers are used." So, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry wrote this to everyone who's sitting here today. And now we're smart guys here, we're going to be setting up the Chamber of Commerce and Industry rules that aren't acceptable to them. And they said very publicly and loudly: honourable Members and Members, once listen to the economy. Don't force your head through the wall, and don't tell us one thing that politics thinks, but do what it takes to make this country survive. Today, however, I have told you about the problems we will soon face if we forget about entrepreneurs, craftsmen or those who create in this country. We're not getting another fifth salary here, believe me. Dear colleagues from Desus and their pensioners will no longer receive the first or second pension if we do not create the conditions here for these people who create to function normally. If we are going to take legislation in this direction, that everyone should become poor in this country, as he said, if you remember Moshe Pijad, when he had his performance on that mascara, and that is exactly what is happening to us right now. This is happening in Slovenia! It's amazing how these things connect. You can't tell me that's not true, because we can pull parallels at any time – I'll come up with a conclusion if you want, once, to quote you, what he said and what we're doing here. So please, let's stop smiling in front of the Slovenian public and give a little heart out, and let's step up together, and let's do something for this poor nation. Let's not let them be completely destroyed. The people are losing their nerve because they can't look at us anymore, thank God. And over and over and over and over and over, you're all the same bastards. I say a hundred times in this House that I am not among them, because I have not stolen a cent in my life. But that's why I'm telling you, we're sitting in the same Parliament, Slovenia; let's step together and stop this mess once and let those who stole this whole Slovenian society answer. Billions and billions! And we're talking here -- I'm not going to say what, about the backdrop of the shadow. This does not mean that I am the one who opposes the application of the same rules in this country. I absolutely agree with that. But first let's start like I said, grab the ones we need to grab around the corners, then we go back to the tail. But not to start with the tail, but then, holy Mary, what happens. Sad truth, indeed, dear colleagues and colleagues! I hope that one day we will go through this and forget who is sitting in which group of Members, and look at what is ahead of us and what we know is absolutely necessary for people to survive, to do so. Let's do this one time. Let's get together. Don't make fun of each other because it doesn't bring anything for the Slovenian people. Fighting in here, sitting on one side or the other, brings nothing. And when someone says, look at those on the other side, and those on the third side, it bothers me terribly. There are no sides to this House. This Parliament is the Slovenian Parliament. All of us sitting in there are Slovenian Members and Members of Parliament, according to which party we are. I expect everyone sitting in here to be aware of this and to work in the interest of the Slovenes and the Slovenians. I will therefore personally, and I am sure that the Slovenian Democratic Party has also voted against such a law that adds to the burden on entrepreneurs and thus gives the craftsmen the bad light in the direction I spoke about earlier; therefore, the long-term provision of funds for all that the state needs to survive in the future. I think we need to think about it, our children, our grandchildren and so on. And that's our job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u165	Mr Ivan Hršak has the word to prepare himself for the Mag. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u166	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. A respected secretary of state with co-workers. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It is difficult to speak for such a good speaker as Marijan Pojbič, who is able to make the entire National Assembly laugh in his discussion. I promise not to speak like this, of course, because these are serious matters. As regards the introduction of so-called tax registers in Slovenia, it is said that the introduction is necessary and I support it. Orders should be established for cash payments. Otherwise, the introduction of these tax registers has been taking some time. Remember, they used to be virtual, but finally, now we're going to get real tax receipts. In my own debate, I will focus on the written relationship between the seller or service provider and the buyer in the law. Who, in fact, is responsible for the issuance of the account every time? Certainly a seller or a service provider. The customer can help us by asking for an account that the service provider or the buyer has not issued on its own, which of course he owes, and of course the buyer must not be punished at the expense of the seller. The law also prescribes fines for a buyer who, in my humble opinion, are significantly exaggerated because they range from €40 to €400, which is a tenfold. Maybe I'll get one explanation of how the inspector will decide how many times the penalty will be issued to a buyer in case, I don't know what kind of offence he'll commit; whether it depends on the size of the account or something else, I haven't seen it in the material, maybe I've missed it. In any event, the Slovenian Consumers' Association also highlighted this view on these fines. I do not support, as I have already said, high penalties or fines in other areas which are disproportionate to the offence, and I will not support them, because I feel that these fines must be too disproportionate to this infringement. Having determined that the buyer must withdraw from the store or from the business space the account, of course, I think it is correct and prudent, of course, if the seller issues it. In the event that the seller does not hand it over to the buyer and that he has the right to do so, it seems good to remind him, of course. Certainly not if I didn't get this account that the customer was sanctioned for doing so. Determined that the customer must keep the account until the end of the warranty period – I mean, this is understandable to me, in practice we already do so and so do customers. Why? Because you can't enforce a guarantee if you don't add an account. It's been a few years. Why is it that you have to attach an account? Because sometimes it was manipulated that some trader signed that guarantee statement I don't know for a year, two or three later, like this product was bought. Thus, of course, manufacturers then ensured that the guarantee would be taken into account if the original account was, where you can see exactly when this buyer bought it. It's a transitional period. As far as this is concerned, it is also appropriate and long enough for the debtors to adapt to legal requirements. I welcome, however, the fact that this was mentioned, the reward game for customers, which we already had in 1999, this is already mentioned by the Secretary of State. This seems very important to me that customers will be stimulated to demand from the manufacturer or service provider an account which will, of course, be sent to the FURS, and they will, of course, be able to do so on the basis of that then [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u167	Words of the Magi. Bojana Muršič [[…]] Replica, Mr. Marian Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u168	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I know you're an honest man. I can tell you gave me a replica. So all I want to say to my colleague who spoke before me is this; he said that what we are discussing today is a serious question. I claim that it is really serious, and I have also been very serious about this and I have been very serious about this. I guess I was misunderstood because my colleagues in Desus don't really understand the best things, do you? One more thing, respectable colleagues from Desus, that's all. The one who prepared this law should be commended. So, from your mouth, this said one of your colleagues, it turns out: the added burden of the economy is a commendable thing for Desus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u169	The replica on the replica is not, it was also a correctly formulated replica, although it refers to a moment that, say well, made us laugh, after today's session it pays to do it. [[…]] That's how I give the word "magic" now. Bojani Muršič, prepare Mr Bojan Podkoršek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u170	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Secretary of State and colleagues and colleagues! I have to touch my colleague, Anžet Logar, who mentioned that only one law was proposed by the Government in the National Assembly. Now, I'm looking at a meeting of the 8th Regular Session and I find that there are several laws here. Now I don't know if we're sitting in the same session or not. So, we also have the Law on Cooperation on Criminal Matters, the Law on Acquisition and Transplantation of Parts of the Human Body, of course this law on the validation of tax accounts, and the Law on the Ratification of the Agreement – out of 10 points, so I don't know, I'm going to focus now on this law that we have at our disposal. [[…]] Gray economy, tax evasion, fraud, that's the disease of today. Any good doctor would say hello to this drug thing. This is also followed by the Government, which has proposed this law, which allows for a transparent, reliable recording of the cash traffic of taxpayers. The government believes that this will reduce the grey economy and prevent tax evasion and fraud, as well as in the field of VAT. We all want this to happen as soon as possible, because there is a need to ensure a fair distribution of the tax burden. I also believe that every effort must be made to ensure that the competent authorities do so as soon as possible and to the maximum extent possible. It is not right for some individuals to present their cash business fairly, but on the other hand, we have individuals who do not do so, and all possible legislation is bypassed and only minimally shown, so I expect this law to be resolved. By supplementing Article 38 of the Tax Procedure Act, it has already been laid down that only such computer programmes may be made available that will not allow the deletion and repair of any account. I think we've come up with all the discipline we need. Of course, FURS must also carry out supervision. It's right that everyone, including lawyers, doctors, notaries, dentists, and they could list. I also welcome in the law that the transitional period for the introduction of these tax registers is stated. I would also appeal to the Government to consider these tax reliefs for the purchase of those which individuals or taxpayers will have to upgrade their computer programmes. Let me say that I also welcome Article 11, but I have one point in Article 11. Let me get this straight. An independent entrepreneur who carries out his activities in the house, in cages where there is no access to the Internet and not mobile technology. Although the solution is to issue accounts in a bound book, it bothers me that this individual will have to prove with the confirmation of the Agency for Network Communications in the Republic of Slovenia, this certificate will only be valid for 1 year so that access to the Internet is not possible in this house. Here we might ask the government representatives if they have faced such a situation. Let me mention the fine that is stated for customers unless the buyer takes the account. For me, this fine is totally unacceptable. 40 to 400 euros for a buyer who doesn't take an account in a store – I think it's far from normal. The buyer is still king. That's how they taught us, that's right, and the buyer can decide whether to take the bill or not. Of course, this account then applies to the guarantee, of course, if it comes to larger products. However, when it comes to food items, we will say concretely, since there has been a lot of talk about this bagel, it seems to me that it is absolutely unnecessary for this account to be taken. Therefore, I really appeal that this fine be taken away or even this article withdraws from the bill. I also suggest – in 1999 we already had an action Every account counts. This, I think, has been very welcome, so I suggest that here, too, in this direction, we continue to make citizens and citizens aware of the need to take accounts so that they can prove something by doing so, so I think it is good to think about this action and so also to relieve the small man. If such a dictatorship remains in law, I mean, I think it is a grave offense to citizens and citizens. However, many citizens and citizens will suffer even greater poverty because such a fine is almost unacceptable. So, I suggest we delete this lesson again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u171	Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor to prepare Miha Kordišek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u172	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Ministry of Finance! When we talk about tax policy in the Republic of Slovenia, when it is possible on the one hand or on the other, a lot of laughter is a concern. Today we are talking about a new law, a law that is difficult to support in my own and in my own group. A colleague in front of me, Bojana, talked about the fine. I'm gonna start like this. It can happen when someone buys a bagel, comes out of the store, pawns a bill, pays a fine. He earned a fair wage, paid a fair price for a bun, and he's ingrained. Of course, it can happen to someone when they take that bagel from the store, put it in their pocket, and I don't think there's any law that anyone can reach into his pocket, and see if he really took that bagel and paid for it. Of course, we often say that when we are in a deep crisis, that this crisis will bring about an economic recovery, but I am afraid that every day we impose new burdens on this economy, that even those economists will tell all of us and those who are drafting laws that they have enough. For instead of burdening the economy, we burden it with these laws. That is why, of course, I doubt this new law. This tax law, according to my assessment, is a burden on the economy. The economy is heavily burdened with new costs, and especially I think it is incorrect, because we have many entrepreneurs, larger or smaller, who respect the rules of the game in Slovenia and pay taxes fairly, of course we are now preparing a new law for them on this side, as if we are doubting them, in all of those, as we have heard many times today, which have not respected these tax rules for many years, but we are powerless. On the one hand, those who respect these rules would probably be for every law that the Government prepares and that is adopted by the National Assembly, while on the other hand seeing that many of these laws do not respect that they do not pay VAT to withdraw from the company – I have heard recently that one opened the 98th company in Slovenia, of course, which would be a large amount if they checked for all the taxes or taxes that it left behind. That is why I think we have a lot of work to do in this area, but I am opposed to burdening those who do what is right and who work for the welfare of the Slovenes and the Slovenians. I will always advocate for an area that will be a burden on the economy, which will go to the good of the economy, and on the other hand, I will stand by and, of course, also appeal, Madam Secretary of State, to you, to the Minister and to all those who work at the Ministry, to clearly lay down the rules of the game for all and to set the rules of the game in such a way that everyone will respect them. All who live in this beautiful Republic of Slovenia! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u173	The word is Miha Kordish. Let the mag be prepared. Bojan Krajnc.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u174	President, thank you very much for your word. I have a debate here. Everything that bothers me on the subject of tax bills, I squeezed it. I hope that I will be able to make it through this debate in the time I have at my disposal, but I would start once with my intervention, half with a replica. I would like to respond to any indication of the burden on the economy. Look, we're talking about tax checkouts. We are not talking about introducing this new tax, these new taxes, the third new tax — no! We are just talking about how to prevent tax evasion and I do not understand how it can only be done to ensure that taxes are paid honestly, that anything is burdened. I mean, it's some basic social consensus, some basic social justice, that you pay taxes and through these taxes you service some public services and say pressure and deal with the grey economy pressure on the economy, it's a short bit of stupidity, excuse me. Okay. Now I'm going on to my debate. The introduction of tax registers certainly makes sense. Following the introduction of virtual cash registers, voluntary payment of taxes increased. It is still possible to do business without accounts after this proposal – this part is true and therefore some other tax evasion practices will be prevented – that is, to delete and modify accounts, to mix with business records and so on. In short, the claim that this proposal will do nothing in the face of the grey economy is not true. Is he going to take it all out? No, definitely not, but he'll take that step or two this way. In this context, we are dealing with a completely fair measure to increase tax revenues and to act against tax dumping. Why do I find it important to increase tax revenues? Not only because we do not know how terribly indebted we are, because we need to service public debt, but I am particularly inclined to do so for some more principled reason. Look, we've had economic growth for a while now. It promises that this economic growth will continue. Longer than that, we're recording the surplus of the balance of payments. In 2013, this amounted to as much as 6% of our gross domestic product, or 2.1 billion euros. 2 billion, good two billion euros. This means that we have exported more than we have imported or that, as a society, as a nation, as a national economy, if you want, we have created significantly more, specifically for 2.1 billion euros more than we have spent. And now, as we think in the United Left, the moment has finally come to begin the effects of this economic growth, this economic recovery to flow across society. At the moment, according to the data, we can say that the crisis is no longer there because we have economic growth. This holds only in half or a little less than half. The crisis is no longer for capital, but for the richest ones; people, the vast majority of citizens and citizens have not yet had the opportunity to feel it and will not have the opportunity to feel it if the state does not reach into this economic fabric and use its redistributive mechanisms for some fair transfer of goods in society. Last but not least, the vast majority of all citizens, those who are employed, workers and workers, are those who create value. And it is high time that this vast majority of citizens actually gets something back, given that this value is already created. Okay. This will lead me forward to my next point, with the introduction of tax registers, it will be possible to significantly increase tax control without substantially increasing costs, and the introduction of tax registers will increase control over infringements of labour rights. This was a point that was very often overlooked in the public debate on these tax boxes, but in the United Left we put it at the forefront because we think that one of the most important things is, because we know what is the growth of heavy capital machinations, by the economy, what pressures are being put on employees. This proposal that we have before us, of course, increases the control of these violations and allows more room for manoeuvre to protect workers' rights. Then I will continue with the fines here, and these fines are a more problematic part of this law. If I am already using them, they should be applied in accordance with the principle of proportionality. Perhaps we could consider here a threshold for these fines to be taken into account. It should be pointed out, however, that certain controls by customers are necessary here because the competent inspectorate, regardless of how we inflate this – many would say here – is bureaucracy and the non-productive sector, so many would express themselves, will never be able to detect all the infringements and participation of a wider range of citizens and citizens is of the utmost importance in doing so. In addition, we do not deal only with consumers here, it is said with the final consumers of certain goods or services, but also with other companies. It often happens that there are different companies here that co-operate together to collectively hide taxes, and of course this is not going anywhere. Okay. If I go to some general points at this point that I would like to communicate in this debate; why people pay taxes, how people pay taxes, when motivated for something like this, is the first such thing that people know where their money goes. If people can see that money is well poured into public health bills, for education, for kindergartens, for good infrastructure projects, for culture and sports, believe me, no one will have any problems with paying taxes because they can see, they can feel what these taxes have brought. A concrete example here can be looked at by Denmark, there is some general resistance to people's paying taxes, but it is clear why taxes paid by people get back some quality public services and here everyone contributes. [[…]] The rich, who have more, contribute more, the poor, those who have less, contribute less, but under the line they all work for some collective benefit. But what is happening with us is that all these terrible public finances are flowing through the cuttings of our system, and we all know that these lines are not so small, through which our common money, the money of all citizens and citizens flows. We have here a notorious example of TES 6 for example, just one where some boxes have been lost, public funds. We've got a huge bank hole here that was covered by the taxpayer's money. Nor does this motivate people to pay taxes because they see them being used to save tycoon gambling and tycoon escapades. Public procurement may still be the third case of reckless use of public funds, especially health care is the one that is here horribly at impact and directly notoriously after the loss of some funds. Another such thing, which would help motivate people to pay taxes, is a fair tax reform. If we expect someone with a minimum wage to pay 20% more for some trade services than they are paying now without an account, then it must, of course, be on the government to recover the tax debt from the property to the last centre. That's the first thing. The second point is that zero tolerance must apply to any transactions with tax havens. Zero tolerance for big fish, if you want. And if we really expect people to give the last cents for the state treasury, then it is finally necessary to tax the capital and the property of the greater value, not constantly talking about the economic burdens and the granting of tax exemptions to those who already have the most in this society. In the United Left, we think that income should be taxed according to the height of the source of the source, because all the other taxes are blind to the social situation of the person paying these taxes. And when that happens and when more taxes are collected from income, especially from high incomes and assets, we can also begin to talk about this fairly non-problemly in order to reduce the value added tax, which, last but not least, leads to smaller reasons for any account-free business. And in such a reconfiguration of our tax system, such a fair tax reform that we propose in the United Left would lead to this last step to help such an economy, not now to the richest ones, but to the economy as businesses, but also to consumers. If I end up at this end. The Minister of Finance Dušan Maramor very much likes to talk about the budget in a catastrophic way about public debt, because we cannot afford anything, but the fact is that the budget equation and the revenue and expenditure side have to start working on the revenue side with a fair tax reform. This may be just the first step today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u175	The word has magic. Bojan Krajnc, prepare for Mr. Andrej Chuš.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u176	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Today, we have heard several figures on the problem, which points to the problem of the grey economy, but it may not be too much to point out that according to the official data of the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia for 2010 all adjustments to gross social product amount to almost 3 and half billion euros and 10% of GDP. Now within this scope, the concept of a grey economy is particularly interesting in this law, which is used almost exclusively in terms of tax evasion, which amounts to 1.3 billion euros and 3.6% of GDP. Furthermore, within this area of tax evasion, SURS notes that in addition to black work, in addition to the part of the units that are not registered at all, the most problematic job-free work is, according to SURS, especially in small businesses with up to three employees. Today we have already heard a lot about these poor small businesses and entrepreneurs who are supposed to be most affected by this law, but the SURS data also mention that there are also small businesses among tax collectors. Of course, the law does not directly address the problem of not issuing invoices, but, as State Secretary Vraničar has already said, this law will release the human resources capacity to prosecute tax evasion in this spectrum as well. Why are we even talking about the gray economy? Not so much because of the color, but because it has many negative consequences: higher tax burden on taxpayers who respect the legal order that they pay; unfair access by individuals to public services – that is to say those who do not pay taxes – represents unfair competition on the market, the inability to enforce consumer complaints, and the general lack of confidence in the law that we are trying to improve – not all Members. It is therefore necessary to prevent the grey economy and, in addition to existing measures, require new and more effective measures to limit the grey economy. What were those measures already in place? On the basis of the findings of the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia before 2013, that some taxpayers operating in cash use computer programs and hardware that allow for the deletion of all invoices issued, the deletion of individual items in invoices and the miscalculation of all traffic, and the cash at the level of such deleted traffic was then mostly used for cash payments of workers, both those who are said to have been – in addition – employed by law and those who were employed in black and for personal use. Therefore, Article 38 of the Tax Procedure Act, which enacted the Virtual Tax Procedure, adopted further measures in 2013, which followed and entered into force in January 2015, namely this year, and Article 31a of the Tax Procedure Act, which provides that taxpayers must apply the invoices from the FURS, which are subject to prior approval by FURS, in respect of taxes on cash transactions without the application of the relevant computer program or electronic device. However, the reason for introducing this solution was greater traceability in the issuance of cash accounts without the use of electronic devices and the provision of appropriate operating conditions for debtors using different means of issuing invoices. Why I stress this change in particular – because in the present law during the transitional period it also allows for the choice that those who have used this method should retain it by 2017. What did the financial inspection find so far? During the period 2009-2014, it carried out more than 16 thousand controls, in which tax evasions amounted to EUR 11.4 million, of which more than EUR 3.5 million were detected in 2014. The measures taken, the previous ones, therefore, have positive effects, but inspection controls statistics show that the current model of virtual tax warehouses, as we have already heard today, is not completed or is insufficient because the information on invoices issued is kept in the register, by the debtor and not by the tax authority and is not required to provide specific technical protection for these data, so that they can still be modified without an audit trail. The reasons for the introduction of tax warehouses, those proposed by the law, are therefore justified: for the first time, on the basis of the SURS assessments made with internationally comparable methodologies and on the basis of past tax controls. With regard to the technical solution proposed by the law, i.e. online tax remittances, these are those in which the exchange of information on invoices issued with the tax authority takes place in real time is more than obvious, in my opinion, compared to classical tax warehouses and also with the system we have so far. In fact, in order to send invoices to the tax authority in real time, the possibility of retrofitting transport data without an audit trail is reduced to a minimum. The system is open, meaning that the debtor can use any electronic device, i.e. a personal laptop, a tablet computer, a smartphone, an electronic register box, so in the event that the debtor already has such a device, there is no additional cost for the purchase of special equipment, which would be between €300 and €800 for a special so-called fiscal printer, certified software and hardware by the tax authority, in order to ensure greater competition in the marketing of retail solutions and consequently a lower price for end-users. Since the information on invoices issued to the tax authority is available, the inspectors may also exercise tax controls without having to visit the debtor, thereby establishing a more effective supervisory mechanism for higher risk debtors. Here I return to the introductions of the above mentioned small entrepreneurs with a maximum of three employees, for whom the SURS notes that they are among the most represented among tax offenders and that targeted controls can be carried out, which also means the release of staff resources from tax controls. The modified method of control will also entail a lower burden on the debtors as the number of direct visits by the tax authority to the taxpayers with a view to exercising control will be reduced. As far as the costs are concerned, some assessments have been quite exaggerated here today. The software solutions to be used to exchange data with FURS are not so difficult and, in accordance with the existing tax rules, it will be possible to recognise the costs of purchasing tax warehouses and internet access arrangements as tax-recognised expenditure which reduces the tax base, as State Secretary Vraničarova has already said. In the case of the purchase of computer equipment, the taxable person may apply an depreciation rate of 50 % in the year of purchase, and in addition, the taxable persons may, in accordance with the legislation already in force, impose a tax relief for the investment in the tax box — some, i.e. under Article 55a of the Law on the Income of Legal Persons, where they may impose a reduction in the tax base of 40% of the investment amount after receipt and the intangible assets, but most of all in the amount of the tax base; others, on the basis of Article 66a of the Income Act, where they may impose a reduction in the tax base of 40 % of the invested amount of the equipment and the intangible long-term assets in the tax year of investment. Finally, the introduction of online tax registers should also be assessed in the context of the possibility of developing technology in the field of trade, such as the development of smart phones applications or dedicated computer programs for business management, so that entrepreneurs can be more user-friendly and thus more competitive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u177	Please be a little more calm in the hall so that the speakers can come to the floor and do not disturb them with your unrest. Now he has the word, Mr. Andrej Chuš, to prepare himself for the Mag. Margareta Guček Zakošek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u178	Thank you for your word. Good evening, colleagues, colleagues, Mrs. Vraničar! Let me say, several times in the debate it has been said that the meeting of the National Assembly will be held only until Wednesday. I think that this is one of the more visible signals, including evidence that the Government is doing too little and that even those measures that are prepared, such as these tax receipts, are not positive. So, of course, as a citizen, I am concerned about what lies ahead, and there is probably nothing new in front of us. This is already an established, traditional model of the left government, which sees the economy, craftsmen, entrepreneurs in particular as a dairy cow for its laziness and delay in the necessary structural reforms. And, of course, once again, the winner of this law is a public sector lobby, a union that, of course, will not feel it. I remember very well when we raised value added tax at the time of the government of Alenka Bratušek, there were discussions, whether to raise VAT, such a higher and lower rate, or to introduce tax registers. After two years, we can find that we have thus increased VAT, both rates, by 1%, up by 2%, and now in the first process we are also accepting tax receipts. So someone was holding a fig in his pocket. The economy and craftsmen are already breathing on gills, and politics is taking them as a boxing bag and hitting them on all sides. So we can somehow agree to hold the river that maybe sometimes they've paid the tenth and today they're working for the tenth. As far as Mrs. Vranič is concerned, much has been said today. I must say that I value it very much on my own, given the difficult situations it is constantly placed in by the finance ministers. I remember the property tax, when we were here all night until seven o'clock in the morning, the minister slept at home, Mrs. Vraničareva here defending the law, and I could still list it. On the other hand, you are synonymous with ever higher taxes and additional ad bureaucratic barriers. I myself believe that tradesmen, entrepreneurs, economists should be burdened with money for investments and employment as well. Now, a lot of people are going to tell me what you know about entrepreneurship about work, because you didn't create anything in life, so the members of Positive Slovenia laughed at me, and today there are a lot of them on the stock market, and I'm still in the National Assembly. [[…]] To move on, we have a 1988 family business at home, which is older than me, and I know what it means to make money on the market — from cooking coffee and everything on — and I must say that I am proud of it. And the experience I had in entrepreneurship still serves well when I am serving as an MEP today. 99% of companies are small or medium sized, so they are the backbone of the Slovenian economy. This measure will in particular be a major blow to family companies, smaller companies. For them, this will be a one-time high amount, and I don't know where they'll find funds for it. This, of course, also shows that the government does not trust the economy, the craftsmen – okay, this is your decision. But I'm curious, how can economists, entrepreneurs, craftsmen show you that they don't trust you? The polls clearly show that you don't have confidence and that you're selling some fog here, and I don't think you have a mandate for that at all. I don't want to be negative in my debates, but a lot of people will remember the campaign Turn on reason, demand an account. But the policy of at least major tax and bureaucratic barriers to our entrepreneurs is more than showing the rule or the river – I'm sorry, I'll say a little bit of Styrian – Turn your mind on, get out of here. However, in the long run, I have a question about who will be employed in this country if not an economy. We all know the state of the public sector, the international comparisons, and I think that we should listen to, listen to, write legislation to their extent that will create a normal business environment – I say normally, because in order for it to be convenient, we will wait for it. I have a feeling that the economy will continue to be a milking cow for many of the privileges that have not been cut and for the high authors of the professor's elite. The Professor of Economics and Psychology at the Italian University of Trento Luigi Mittone said that in environments where there is dissatisfaction with public services, gray economies do not condemn and mistreat them, people are more susceptible to tax evasion. At the same time, I would like to refer to the debate of some Members and Members, who are talking about how culture should be brought up in our country. It is generally known that more north than we are in Europe, there is a greater general awareness of the negative consequences of tax evasion on society. This is mainly attributed to effective public services. So the public sector will also have to do its part to ensure that the population is satisfied that it has confidence in the institutions, both the rule of law and others, but not that we are today talking about having a building permit waiting for three to five years. So I also have a comparison that Sweden in Slovenia would start tax evasion within three months. To sort of end up with a few sentences. Higher taxes do not yet mean taxes collected. Excess control terrorism does not encourage taxation. On the contrary, instead it creates a feeling that citizens pay their taxes in return for services they value, creating a feeling that they are being paid by some extortive mafia. The failure to pay taxes thus becomes something completely moral. Additional controls do not even reach those who do not pay taxes in one way or the other, only mean additional bulwarks to those who do. Additional control does not address the central problem, it is too high a tax. And last but not least, the share of tax revenue is an extremely stable thing from year to year. Increasing and additional controls cannot simply be achieved so that a greater share of taxes is actually collected, as this is a relatively stable thing as people are willing to pay. Thus, despite the crisis, the increase in taxes and the increased control of tax revenues ranged from a good 37 to 35% of GDP. Despite the ambitions of the last few governments, however, the trend is a relative decline in revenue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u179	Words of the Magi. Margareta Guček Zakošek, prepare Mr Franz Breznik and Mrs Marusha Škopac.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u180	Thank you, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! At this late hour, I am pleased to speak to Mr Hearing about the economy. About the one that was, in fact, kind of put in my hands in this National Assembly. Not for the last two decades have I been working in the economy and I believe I understand it. Before I begin the debate I have prepared, I would say, however, that today we are really here in this law, which is supposed to be in good economics, and I will later say why, we use terms that are not appropriate. Look, we're not raising taxes on the economy. We are increasing it to an economy that is not already taxing today, and we are helping the economy that is tax-free. We're not increasing the burden. Excuse me, who's talking about increasing the burden? You can say that small entrepreneurs, craftsmen will have to get tax receipts, but today we are talking about tax boxes as intolerable large boxes, which cost 2 000 euros. It's not like that. It's a virtual world. We're in the information system today. We checked with a colleague, minimal cost – €67, device and Internet access. We talk like we live in Africa! Sorry, Croatia has introduced tax receipts with 40% less coverage of the Internet, with islands and with no idea what else – we are not able to do this in Slovenia today. We're wondering if we're going to increase our jobs. Yes, we will. Croatia proved it. In cafes, traffic increased by 68% and regular employment by 36%. This prevents leaking and prevents black work. In this debate, however, I would like to touch the whole triangle or one part: FURS- enterprise-consumer. We listen to the comments on paragraphs 12 and 17 all the time. Look, it's not a matter of additional burdens, but it's a fact that the tax burden has to be fairly distributed among all companies. And it's true, craftsmen and entrepreneurs who ask us what you're going to do are the ones who are already taxing today. And you were talking yourself about unregistered companies. Who can help here? I'm saying that the end of a triangle called the buyer. Because the purpose of this law is never to get a question, whether you want an account, you need it, whether you want an account service or not, or when the consumer says, sorry, how much does it cost without an account. We're talking about a culture of taxes, and that's what we need to say. You know, the buyer is the king, as Mrs. Muršič has already said, and the buyer is the king in this process. And apparently, in 25 years with the root, there was nothing we could do. You've all been talking, talking about awards, talking about an account collection award. Looks like the root and the wand are working. I'm going to use one illustration in my speech, and you may think it's too much, but it's not for me. Let's say that in Slovenia we have a problem with 30% of the drivers driving alcoholics, and we will decide on the action: we will reward those who will be stopped by cops ten times by non-alcoholics. That's a great move! But look, they're endangering their lives and the lives of others. You know, even those who don't tax and don't pay it are endangering the functioning of the country. It may be an exaggerated parable, but let's take it as a parable. We need to start realizing the meaning. I will say this: the purpose of the change in tax culture is that after 25 years we will really change our view of what it means to get an account, to take it. We may have to determine in the law where the inspector will stop the buyer, what punishment he will impose on him, but still, we have not been able to do so in the most practical way so far. I believe that the buyer is not only entitled, and the buyer has a duty. I believe we must protect him in rights, but we must also make clear what the buyers' duties are. And we will never be able to change culture until the relationship between both the seller and the buyer is changed; they are in a purchasing relationship and this act is recorded in an account and that is the only thing we have in hand. Moreover, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry is not an economy. You know, we have other chambers, the Chamber of Commerce and Economics, which fully support the law, so let's be really broad and see that we really want to move forward to the question that we don't want: do you want to do this with or without an account? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u181	The word has magic. Branko Grims, prepare Mrs Marusha Škopac and Mr Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u182	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! And for a long time, we are meeting with one proposal from the Government that touches the economy, because at a few meetings, there were more of our points on this topic than the government, which is very interesting and very much to say. But what is this proposal, ladies and gentlemen? A proposal that would be good to go back to history for a moment. Do you know that today Gorenjska, from where I am, is somewhere in the middle of Slovenia and that Austria is much more developed than Slovenia? Do you agree? And did you know that, until World War II, Gorenska was three times, not a third, three times more developed than neighbouring Austria and far more developed in the area of present Slovenia? This, ladies and gentlemen, is the success of socialism, for which half of the people here are crying, and another third of them are breathing, sighing. And why is that difference? Because Austria was building a system that allowed everyone to develop entrepreneurship, to develop their qualities, to create and not burden it with endless bureaucratic procedures of continuous surveillance, to be monitored across the board, which was, of course, typical of the totalitarian system that was in Slovenia – even if some do not want to remember it. But these remains of this mentality are still present today, and so – what happens? If people elect a transition left, then they must know that in such a case, the Constitution normally ceases to apply, ceases to be valid, or almost ceases to be valid, and Murphy's law is certainly in force. And what does Murphy's marriage say? When left - handed governments are occupied, people, their possessions, human rights, and all that is creative in this world are at stake. And then comes one of the laws we have now before us. Even though you have forgotten the endless bureaucratic procedures, the excessive taxes and taxes of the people and the economy – you have forgotten most of the debaters – they will now face another additional obligation that will cost them, because every thing costs time, money, their energy, and from which no one will ultimately benefit, except those who actually rule in Slovenia: this is a paid red tape from the country's money. And that's how you do one marriage in the government, because before, people have chosen a transition left, where, of course, everyone is financed from government bras, and then they defend themselves. Then you bureaucraticly solve the bureaucratic problem by creating additional bureaucracy and another bureaucracy that will oversee this bureaucracy and, of course, putting an account on people and paying for it. What has been said in the Balkans about this? My concern, move on to the other one. In general, if the state does not know how to do its job, if it does not trust its citizens and citizens, if it does not give them the framework that the neighbouring Austria gives them to develop its development potential, then of course, you face such solutions as they are here today. Slovenia needs only two; simplifying all procedures for entrepreneurs and for citizens, simplifying and abandoning the multitude of unnecessary ones, the only purpose of which is to then introduce a silent tax with additional supervision, because you pay some totally stupid penalties for unnecessary things – something like this is also in this law and, on the other hand, it is not called a tax, but actually an additional burden on the family budget. On the other hand, to create new jobs at the expense of the State. More bureaucracy, and then more bureaucracy! And by doing so, you will destroy your own country, because in this way, ladies and gentlemen, we will not come anywhere else. I don't know, you're all talking about how Slovenia is progressing. Excuse me – what? At the time when Germany had one development cycle, Slovenia went under the government of the transitional left-wing people with 8 billion Euros of debts from the former Yugoslavia until the end of 2008, to the end of our government, at the present more than 30 billion. At the same time, economic development, ladies and gentlemen, has gone down like this. Now we're down here and a little bit has turned up and you're going to explain what a powerful development. Ladies and gentlemen, we've been up here before, but now we're down here! When you are here and beyond, then we can talk about the further development of Slovenia. Until then, however, everything must be done to achieve this development at all. The right paths are only two: decommissioning the economy and perhaps even more important if you talk to entrepreneurs, drastic simplification of procedures, introduction of lump sums, different other solutions; all that will make us at least as entrepreneurship-friendly as neighbouring Austria. To stop entrepreneurship there, to stop moving young families there, to stop moving everything that represents the future of a nation or, if you want, of a country. This law certainly does not benefit and I will not support it alone, nor will the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u183	Mrs Marusha Škopac has the floor to prepare Mr Jan Mahnic and Mrs Marija Bacič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u184	Thank you for your word, Mr. President! Today we are talking about a proposal for a law that will prescribe mandatory tax receipts that will have to be used in the case of cash transactions. Companies that don't do business in cash, the real thing is that all their payments are made in cash, they're not going to need tax receipts. There are two types of tax receipts in the world. This is how we know classic tax receipts based on specific technologies for the safe storage of data locally in the treasury. Specific technical requirements are laid down for the protection of data and for the recording of transactions in the register. Such tax receipts are actually quite widespread, as they are now used by 15 countries in Europe, namely Italy, Greece, Poland, Latvia, Lithuania, Sweden, Belgium, Bulgaria, Hungary, Serbia, Malta, Russia and Turkey. In addition, such cashiers are also used in Argentina and Brazil. In Slovenia, however, we opted for an online tax system where the exchange of information on invoices issued with the tax authority takes place in real time. Such a system has already been successfully implemented before us by Croatia. The advantage of this system is that the exchange of goods, except in rare cases, will not be necessary. The debtor needs internet access to link goods with the tax authority's information system and the data transfer programme. It is therefore an open tax box system without certified hardware or software. In addition, in neighbouring Austria, there is a large-scale tax reform in progress, which will introduce tax rebates, as we did with 1. 1. 2016 and 2017 is also expected to introduce tax rebates in Germany. From this I can conclude that all countries are increasingly aware of the problems and scope of the grey economy and are looking for and introducing solutions to reduce it. So Slovenia will be nothing special. Let us remember the shouting and shouting in Croatia before the introduction of the tax cans of the inn and all the other shareholders of the mostly cash business. Today, it is clear that all their threats were totally unfounded. From the data available to us, it is estimated that traffic in Croatian guest houses increased by 68% in 2013, the number of employees increased by 32%, the average net salary by 8%. In the course of the night, the losses of Croatian innkeepers turned into profits and, instead of reducing the number of innkeepers, their number increased by 18% in the first year of the introduction of the tax registers. In neighbouring Croatia, therefore, the law has achieved more than its purpose. One of the objectives of the introduction of tax warehouses is to create more equitable conditions for business, labour market regulation, to prevent unfair competition and to accelerate economic development. And if we return to the results of Croatia in the introduction of the tax registers, these objectives have undoubtedly been achieved. The aim of the law is also to ensure a more efficient collection of compulsory duties, which will also mean a fairer distribution of the existing tax burden. It will be possible to identify the risk of taxpayers already on the basis of directly received data from tax repositories and, accordingly, to strengthen control in those undertakings where the anomaly will be detected. This means that the staff resources of the tax authority will be much more effectively targeted. Members of Parliament have also received comments from the Slovenian Consumers' Union on the bill on the validation of accounts. Their comments relate mainly to paragraphs 12 and 17 of the Act, which refers to a fine for customers in the event that it does not take over the account. The Union of Consumers of Slovenia strongly opposes the argument that the consumer cannot bear the burden of control over the correctness of the issuance of invoices and the removal of taxes. Let me stress that this does not control the correctness of the issue of the account and does not take over the work of the supervisory authorities. The customer is only obliged to request and take over the account, because, if he does not do so, the non-issuer of the account has actually been able to avoid paying the tax and from this point of view allowed the seller to tax evasion, and this is the important part of the tax culture which is required to be thoroughly upgraded in our society. However, the comments of the Slovenian Consumer Association regarding the maintenance of the account until the period of guarantee are examined. If we now look in detail at the third paragraph of Article 12 of the Law, it is said that the customer must take over and keep the account until the period of the guarantee period when the service is provided in the customer's premises. Since in this case the service is performed at the customer's premises, where we know that there are currently the biggest tax avoidances, the customer's awareness that he has to demand and take over the account is even greater. As beautifully described in the government's draft law, each tax box model is just one piece in the mosaic of measures against the grey economy and tax evasion. In order to achieve the effectiveness of such a system, effective control and awareness of the importance of voluntary compliance with tax obligations is essential.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u185	Mr. Jean Mahnič has the floor. Get Mrs. Maria Bachič ready. Mrs Marija Bachič then has the floor to prepare Mr Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u186	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! Tax registers shall be introduced with a view to allowing traceability and effectiveness of controls over invoices issued and to limit the grey economy and tax evasion and fraud in the field of VAT, operating taxes, income tax and other duties. The aim of the law is also to ensure a more efficient collection of the compulsory duties prescribed by the applicable legislation, which will also result in a fairer distribution of the existing tax burden. At the same time, more equitable business conditions, regulation of the market, prevention of unfair competition and faster economic development as well as greater protection of workers will be put in place. Some taxpayers, smaller craftsmen, domestic craft operators have doubts about the introduction of tax registers because they say they do not have enough income, but we hope that their costs will be taken into account in tax relief. A great deal of money, which could be spent on education, health care and many other things, goes in our country past the state treasury, so it is imperative that the state regulates the financial order of all debtors by law. We pay taxes on a regular basis to everyone who gets paid, and it doesn't come to our minds to avoid it. It is true, however, that we must also change our thinking and demand and take account in the store, in the hairdresser or wherever we are. However, we cannot agree with the proposal that if we do not take the account and store it for a product or service until the guarantee expires, we will not present it to the taxable person on request, punishable by a fine of EUR 40 to 400. A little too much. Therefore, the proposal at this point certainly needs to be changed. We are aware that the grey economy is a serious problem to be tackled. 50 to 100 million additional money from the introduction of tax registers is a large amount of money from which public institutions, education, health, culture, various societies, sport and more can be financed. It is true, however, that any change that is being introduced comes first to the obstacle and disagreement, and then slowly comes into our minds that we need to do something if we are to bring the country into better shape. Recall how bad it was in Croatia when they started implementing the law. There has been a lot of trouble, but today the system is in place and the government is in a larger financial order. Let us hope that after our initial birth problems, we too will be content. That is why we will support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u187	Mr Jože Tanko has the floor to prepare Mr Tillen Christmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u188	Thank you so much for saying that. When a government or a left comes before the National Assembly by regulating tax matters, without offering anything on the other hand, it is probably always necessary to be a little careful. For I do not know in the history of this country of the left government, which would at any time come up with a balanced proposal to perhaps tighten taxes on the one hand and, on the other hand, release the business environment or relieve the state budget of certain unnecessary obligations. We are now in a situation where, on the one hand, we have mortgages for recipients of social security aid, on the other hand, from the same public funds can obtain, I don't know, subsidies for protected dwellings that have higher pensions than more than two thirds of citizens have a high salary. We are in this situation and these things are moving on. On the other hand, many or some interlocutors have already said that the amount of taxes is in some ways directly linked to the rate of tax evasion or concealment. If we add that the left governments have never done business simplification in the history of this country, but more additional forms, then these things are just multiplying. In short, we are in a situation where we have extremely complicated procedures at simultaneously high or too high tax rates. All that is happening in this is a direct consequence of everything that can be read by those who have studied the economy in theory and also check how this is happening and is happening in the practice of many countries. I remember that a year ago there was still a very current theory of a ten billion-dollar grey economy in this country. No one has checked this data, no one has calculated it, there has been only one assessment and all these accompanying tax administration measures have been adapted to this assessment, it is said to tighten the operating conditions, the number of additional forms and so on. I think it's difficult for this country to have such a gray economy. That's, I don't know, 20% or even more GDP. This is abnormally high given that key Slovenian companies operate transparently, they represent a large part of this GDP. Even all or most other entrepreneurs operate transparently, and this assessment is in some ways substantially too high. I think that the tax effects of what the government is predicting are, that's to say, a 50 to 100 million seized, substantially exaggerated, very excessive. On the other hand, there is not much going on in those areas where we got billions of holes. We have a whole bunch of construction companies that have been involved in some political projects and are now in a phase of collapse, decay, bankruptcy, bankruptcy, even a whole lot of this property has been transferred to the Management Society or even remained in this banking system. In short, I would like to say that the Government is engaged in some marginal projects where from those who are honest citizens, they would collect some more money and very poor efforts are made by those who should pick up and recover the part that was created by mismanagement, crime, clientism, corruption and similar matters. All this money, which is the subject of a bank hole, has disappeared in the Balkans, is deposited in Cyprus and other islands, and in this part it is not state, nor government, nor ministry, nor other institutions of the rule of law. There's no confiscation of property. There we have one prosecutor who is supposed to be dealing with this, it is my fellow citizen, Mr Kozina, but occasionally we meet him only on some shows and talk about nothing being achieved and nothing being recovered and that it is the wrong policy. They have all the instruments in their hands, the government is supposed to work this way too, but nothing happens. But I'm curious, Madam Secretary of State, what impact does the adoption of this legislation have, say, on domestic and artistic trade? This is a trade and activity that is of particular importance in Slovenia, has special status, drys the number of those engaged in domestic and art trade, and I am very interested in the way it is and will regulate the work of those who are still engaged in this national specialty or activity. It is a whole range of activities, and these performers of home and art trade are less than five hundred, probably with this certificate of domestic and art craftsmanship. For some areas, such as the Ribnica area, domestic and artistic trade is an important activity. Many deal with it, in fact, in this part is the most concentrated ones who have this status, and if this is so rigorously carried out in practice as foretold, then it can be an additional burden for those who are already engaged in this manual activity, which is already not particularly promising and is not profitable, but it is only to maintain some tradition and speciality in the Slovenian space. I want to know what this marriage is all about. As I know from practice, we had to deal with the financial sector, especially as regards domestic and artistic trade, in particular to deal with and pay particular attention to matters which regulate the tax framework for carrying out this activity. Almost every finance minister who came to this area had some big goals, some demands, and if they were not careful, this activity would in fact be financially destroyed — not because people would not be able to work or want to work, but because tax burdens in this area would be significantly high. In short, with regard to these proposals by the Government and also this law, I believe that the solution is unconstitutional, it is not accompanied by other measures that would be necessary for, say, this law, with these objectives that you have written, to be placed in our legal order, because, apart from increasing additional burdens for those who are already operating legally and legally, there are obviously no other additional effects to be expected from this title. At the very least, it is evident from the discussions with those concerned by this law and also from the letters of interest associations, in particular the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. In short, I think that the Government and the ruling policy should do much more to remove administrative barriers. After 2012, the paper part in all areas is only increasing and sharpening, the administrative part is increasing, and no special effects and unloading are in some other areas, so that these good intentions or objectives of the Government are likely to fall into a fairly empty space and cause problems where they do not need to be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u189	Mr Tillen Christmas has the floor to prepare Mr Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u190	Thank you for your word. Given my initial position, I would now have been more specific to what was presented in the debate. In opening, I must say that perhaps somehow what I initially said is that I am pleased to present various arguments, that we will then come to an end with a good marriage solution, a little bothers me. There were some arguments, but a lot of them were also poor or a little strange, so that they could be identified. So one of these was the theory of Laffer's famous curves that lower taxes would reduce the grey economy. This is a theoretical concept, taxes are a very complex matter, and I think that those who would actually figure out in practice how the matter would work would get – I think this question for more than a million dollars. So at this time, given how long the debate has been going on, I've taken the data from the OECD, and I've done a little comparison of what's going on with countries with lower taxes, what's actually going on with the grey economy, and I've done such a nice graph where it's said that the declining tax rates are relative in countries, and I think that over 30 countries have been compared, the OECD, the gray economy is growing. A growing proportion of GDP. If I had said that the lower tax rates meant a significantly higher grey economy, I would have faked it. In the SMC we are somehow committed to trying to present the facts as they are, and we are not adapting them and here is definitely going to say the following. Those countries with lower tax rates also have a slightly lower share of tax in the tax system, a smaller country, as a result, significantly less control. Here's the point I'd like to point out. It is said that weak tax control, weak tax legislation, an unruly tax system also leads us to have weak results and a large scale of the grey economy. This means that the causal link here is slightly different; the more we go north, the higher the tax rates, the smaller we have the grey economy. In Slovenia we do not have such high tax rates, we have some grey economy, which we have already mentioned today, the estimates are very different, I agree with you, but these are some theoretical calculations, but I still think that the tax registers are a step towards further limiting or reducing this grey economy. Then, if we go any further, it was also mentioned that we are dealing with small fish. I think that the tax box is kind of a measure, as it is now set up, without exception, a system somehow for everyone. So we go to all the fishes, we don't go to the big ones, we don't split them into different ones. Even before it was exposed to how they did so in Serbia; Serbia has tax registers as an additional mecca. After we move on when we're talking about rainforests. It is true that this law does not contain, for example, some complementary measures, as it is not intended to restrict or act directly against rainforests. To a certain extent, because I believe that there will be a lot of people because of improved controls, when we suddenly have so many and so many tax inspectors released, let's say that sometimes they've been working on this cashier's control there, almost 200, if they're now facing 100, and every one of them is looking at two companies or two of them a week, which I think is kind of a normal number, that means they're looking at them in one year 10,000. Which means that in three years, we've had our shells examined, and at least in some way, this pressure has been put in place, so that the buzzards may also get into this system and start working as they should, and they are no longer unfair competition for everyone else. It is said that some automated tax system, which will relieve tax inspectors, allows them, as previously said, to specialize, improve, to go on more complex cases, which for my terms are also cockroaches. Then something was also said about keeping accounts. This is not a matter of coffee bills – whether in the SMC or I myself believe that those solutions that have now been presented in the proposal are merely a proposal and are intended to develop here such a good debate, on the basis of which we will be able to fully identify one appropriate way, but also buyers – in addition to those prize games and so on – which will be complementary measures – have also attracted them, on the other hand, as colleague Guček mentioned here, let's say a stick, mainly some way to get to it in the National Assembly, how they, too, with some measures within this law, might encourage them to participate in all of this, because there is still some triangularity here. So, we have a buyer, we have a seller, and we have a financial administration, and how this triangle is going to shut down, so that everyone will work together somehow. I mean, if everyone gets involved, the effect will be the greatest. Then maybe one more matter to conclude, I think I have very little time left, as far as these arguments are concerned today, that again I do not know how many companies have closed down, that I do not know how many unemployed people will be. Let me mention just one interesting article that was published in Siol. At that time, it was announced by the Chamber of Commerce in Croatia that 20% of the guest facilities would be closed and that 4 000 jobs would be occupied. In the cracks: 18% increased the number of companies in these industries by 4 000 100, approximately, the number of employees increased. The biggest jumps were somehow seen where we're talking about some, so they're called cafes and restaurants. Even there, according to our statistics, there is a strong avoidance of tax payments, although it is gradually improving. That would be the end of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u191	Mr. Janko Weber has the floor. Let's get Mrs. Susana Pretty Chimenka ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u192	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! Already in the introductory part on behalf of the parliamentary group, I have pointed out some of the extremely difficult situations in place in our economy, especially for craftsmen and independent entrepreneurs, where it actually happens that they need free medical care, which shows that they are somewhere at the limit of their ability to generate income in order to survive. On the other hand, Slovenia had an surplus of EUR 102 million in the current balance of payments account in the first two months of the year, and the revenue from the export of goods and services exceeded the corresponding expenditure by EUR 336 million. In short, income is clearly generated in Slovenia. Second, how we deal with these incomes or how we treat those who can do much more, and that is not the case. I also drew attention to the problem of banks that we have strongly recapitalised, but these banks do not transfer these funds to our companies, entrepreneurs, craftsmen, in short, many more taxes could be collected if the banks, through these funds they have received, helped the economy, credited them, provided favourable conditions, and significantly more resources could flow into the budget of the Republic of Slovenia than would be possible through the introduction of tax registers. Of course, when we talk about banks not doing this, we don't really talk about whether banks will allow it, and the management of these banks have paid at least comparable penalties, as they will pay, say, those who won't issue bills. One company, for example, will also be punished with EUR 125,000 or one entrepreneur will be punished with EUR 125,000 because something will be wrong with the bill issued. On the other hand, there's a lot of money lying in banks that don't react and we don't sanction them, but we reward them with extremely good wages and they don't answer for anything. Of course, it is also in itself a question whether, however, a number of laws and proposals for solutions that ministers also receive from their professional colleagues are sufficiently prepared, are prepared in a way that analyses the real situation on the market and what happens if this analysis of the market and the economic situation does not prove to be the same as that set out in the law. In fact, no one else is responsible for it. This proportionality or disproportionateity in liability and even in the payment of penalties is one of those which is certainly very problematic in this law, and it will probably be necessary to clear up these possible imbalances accurately, but in the opening recital I have pointed out that in the Group of Social Democrats we will not support a solution that would actually penalise the consumer because he does not have an account I do not know how long it has been kept. In fact, we estimate that this is also a possible serious intervention into an individual and his rights. Because, in some awkward situation, it can happen, someone comes in, controls you out there on the street, stops you, demands an account from you. If you don't have one, you pay between 40 and 400 euros in fines. All of these are some of the procedures that indicate that a number of issues will still have to be cleared in the adoption of this law, so that we can really say that we are all against the grey economy, but not just some, but others, because this law also allows exceptions. And the fact that there are exceptions is, of course, very dangerous, whether we can even go after the removal of the grey economy in Slovenia. If there are exceptions, it will be very difficult.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u193	The representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance mag, has the floor. Matthew the Vranic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u194	Thank you so much for saying that. At the end of this debate, I would like to focus only on a few key points concerning the direct law currently under consideration. I would not like to extend this debate to other topics that have been exposed, from banks to investigating other abuses, tycoons and so on. The whole debate today focused essentially on three points. The first point is the principle of whether the proposed system for checking accounts is acceptable to the Slovenian environment or not. Indeed, this proposed system represents a major change, and we know that, in the event of similar changes proposed in the past, it has also drawn up opinions as to whether the system will be appropriate or not, whether it will be effective or not, whether it will cause a number of additional costs. If we insist that the proposed scheme will result in large costs for the debtors, this means that we agree that today the debtors do not normally have their own accounting and invoices, because if they do, then, in fact, this system means merely upgrading their existing system by linking to the financial management information system. For small taxpayers, including those engaged in domestic and art trade, if they want to take advantage of this, it is or will be available on the Financial Administration website of a system that will allow for the direct validation of accounts or the subsequent validation of invoices in the bound account book. The other two areas that we have touched today are the areas of punishment or wrongdoing, their proportionality. We must not forget that according to the basic principles of criminal law, it is necessary to prove to someone that he has acted intentionally or with great negligence, but certainly the concerns that have been raised today require some extra work to prepare the law for another treatment. And the last area that I saw as a red thread — exceptions; or exceptions yes or no exceptions. Some of the debates in this regard were very contradictory. The public debate so far has focused strongly on ensuring that there must be no exceptions. I admit, however, that the debate was very diametrically opposite, some demanding exceptions for themselves, others demanding that if they were to be considered, it should apply to all others. Therefore, this proposal for a law for Slovenian taxpayers does not provide for any exceptions. The possible exception stems only from the Value Added Tax Act, if no one already has to issue an account on the basis of the basic principle, of course we cannot ask him to confirm this account. The only exception here in the system is distance sales, where we should go to foreign jurisdiction or to the jurisdiction of foreign taxpayers, and we cannot do so by means of Slovenian law. In general, this distance sale is largely for cases linked to payment through the payment intermediary system and therefore there is a possibility of control through other mechanisms. If I withdraw, I think that the debate has shown that the law is basically suitable for further consideration, that it requires further discussion on some points, and in this regard I thank you for this debate today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u195	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. We have eight minutes left, so the time set for the debate has not yet expired. I therefore ask whether, on the basis of the first paragraph of Article 71 of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss the matter. I don't see the need for that. That is why I conclude the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, decide in half an hour in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. I am also adjourning the 8th session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 9 p.m. 45 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u196	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Bill on Hidden War Cemeteries and the Burial of Victims. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal of the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the burial of victims is suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Christian Democrats, Mrs Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u197	In New Slovenia, of course, we will support this law, we will vote in favour. We prepared it with good purpose because we thought that in Slovenia it was time for us all to want to bury the dead with dignity. I am sorry that today's debate has turned into an ideological debate, and we have once again regretted the relatives of the mourners or relatives of those who have been victims and themselves. Nevertheless, in New Slovenia we insist that this law is good. Of course, it takes political will to enforce this law, and if we could achieve all this with the support of this law, then we could take an important step forward in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u198	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors of the Alliance, Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u199	Thank you very much. As I have predicted in the beginning, even in the very presentation of the position, we will, after the debate, communicate what our decision is. The debate itself has made it more than clear that this law will in fact bring no reconciliation. It is also clear that in reality — and this is the most severe and we regret — that these bones are actually abused for political purposes, in order to explain to each other what is right and what is wrong. That is why, of course, after serious consideration, we decided to vote on our own conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u200	We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 36 votes in favour, 23 votes in favour. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the bill on tax clearance of accounts. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a bill on tax clearance of accounts is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 60 votes against 22. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against 22.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to item 1 of the agenda, which is to questions from Members and Members. A review of the draft conclusions of Members and Members for the debate on the replies of the President of the Government, the Minister and the Ministers has been published on the e-Cloup. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Mesca, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Mamorr, to the question of Mr Mesca on the role of the Cinven Fund and the German Telecom in the privatisation procedures of Telekom. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u201	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Yesterday, I asked Finance Minister Dusan Maramor a question about the alleged agreement between the Slovenian takeovers of Telekom, says Deutsche Telekom on the one hand and Cinven's speculative capital fund on the other. In fact, two members of the government are hereby Secretary at the Ministry of Finance of the Methods of Dragonja and Minister of Economic Affairs Zdravko Počvalšek, who confirmed for the week Mladina that the Government was informed that there had been an illegal negotiation between these two legal entities with a view to trying to lower Telekom's price as much as possible, with the Cinven Fund playing the role of the dealer of Telekom; it is said that someone who would buy Telekom would sell it to Deutsche Telekom later. The Minister of Finance Dusan Maramor denied the statement. He claimed that both Dronja's rest and methods had denied them, and said that he was quoted as sayings in Mladina's week were wrong and unfair, because Draganja's method did not make such a statement, nor was he asked by the journalist to make a statement, but, at an inappropriate time, they exchanged a few words on this matter, which the journalist used and all the words of the Secretary of State took grave from the context of the informal discussion," he concluded. This was the answer of the Minister of Finance, but at the week of Mladina we asked if there had really been a denial and in what way these misstatements were supposed to occur, after the week of Mladina responded to the entire Slovenian public and made it clear that it was not a misinterpretation, but it was a literal quote of the answers that Mr Draganja and Mr Restoršek both gave in writing. Mr Restingšek, even through his pierar service, was said to be an official statement that he was informed that there was to be a deal between Cinven and Deutsche Telekom. Moreover, it was not a summation, a rough rip from the context, as Finance Minister Dusan Maramor said, a statement from the context, but a literal quote. And here there is doubt as to the credibility of the Minister of Finance's statements and in particular what is really going on in the privatisation of Telekom. In fact, we sent the question to him three days earlier and he could not be unprepared, but it was a deliberate misappropriation. Therefore, in the United Left, we suggest that we discuss this seriously in the National Assembly. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u202	We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 12 votes in favour and 45 votes in favour. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Anžeta Logar will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Mumorr, to the question of mags. Anzeta Logar in connection with the implementation of the 2016 Development Programme Plan Forecast We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 24 for them and 55 for them. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 55.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Mark Pogačnik will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Mumorr, to the question of mags. Mark Pogačnik in relation to the settlement of the legal obligations of the Slovenian State holding company. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 26 votes in favour and 50 votes in favour. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Matjaž Hanžka, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Petr Gasperšić, to the question of Mr Matjaž Hanžk, on the operation of Block 6 of the Termoelectrica Šoštanj. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 12 for them and 49 for them. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Franz Breznik, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Mumorr, to Mr Franz Breznik's question on excise policy. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 48. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Zvonk Lah, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petr Gasperšič, to the question of the question of Mr Lach on co-financing of electricity from renewable sources. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 47. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Commissioner Miha Kordiš, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Mumorr, to the question of Mr Miha Kordiš in relation to the representatives of the International Monetary Fund. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left Miha Kordiš.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u203	Thank you very much, chairman, for your word. In the United Left, we saw a part of the stability programme in which the government wrote that one of Slovenia's actions would be to quote, "the gradual introduction of efficiency reports into the public finances system. Together with the IMF, benchmark and review of procedures in the areas of social policy and education, which will serve to create improvements in the system," end of the quote. On Monday, I asked our Finance Minister, Dusan Marble, who replied that the IMF was at our disposal and was dissecting the social, health and education sectors. If the International Monetary Fund is at a visit and deep in the womb of an alleged sovereign state at the invitation of a financial minister, there is no reason to debate in the National Assembly, then I do not know what else it can be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u204	We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 11 votes against 50. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Andrej Couch, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Magnetic Nutrition. Dejan Jedana to the question of the delegation by Andrej Cuz concerning the Regulation for Young Farmers. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 47. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Ambassador Anja Bah Žibert, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of the Interior of Magi. Vesne Györkös Žnidar on Mrs Anje Bah Žibert's question on ensuring equal treatment in the maintenance of public order and protecting life and personal security at public events. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 22 votes against 55. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 55.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Members and Members, please take all the material out of the hall for tomorrow's consideration of the 9th item to be held without public presence, and bring your credentials with you in accordance with Article 11 of the Regulation on the Protection of Secret Data tomorrow. I am adjourning the 8th session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Thank you.
