ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the fourth session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Andreja Katič from 6.30 p.m., Mrs Ksenija Korenjak Kramar, Mrs Andreja Potočnik, Mrs Jelka Godec, Mrs Vojka Šergan, Dr Jasna Murgel from 10.30 to 12.30 p.m., mag. Andrej Shircelj, mag. Matthew Tonin, Matjaž Hanžek, Mr Happy Blažič, Mag. Anže Logar and Mr Marjan Dolinšek from 10.30 to 12.30 p.m. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving on to 15. It's a day's work. This is on the basis of the proposal recommended in connection with the Bank's activities in Slovenia regarding the resolution of the banking system. The proposal for a recommendation is addressed to the National Assembly by a group of 18 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jožet Tank. With regard to this proposal, the group of 18 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the State Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed magi. Mark Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u2	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Honourable Governor of Banka Slovenije, colleague and colleague! The Slovenian Democratic Party has decided to make additional recommendations in the procedure concerning Banka Slovenije's activities regarding the resolution of the banking system. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we estimate that it is necessary for the National Assembly to obtain additional materials and to be further familiar with the rehabilitation of the banking system. The Slovenian Democratic Party proposes to the National Assembly to adopt two recommendations: The National Assembly recommends to the Bank of Slovenia, within 30 days, to prepare and provide the National Assembly with information on the reasons for the so-called Bank of Slovenia's so-called bank hole and role as the Bank of Slovenia's banking regulator on the effectiveness of the State-owned corporate governance system and how to deal with the consequences of insolvency of business banks. Second recommendation: The National Assembly recommends that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia take note of the stress test of the European Central Bank within eight days of the adoption of this recommendation, after which our largest bank, Nova Ljubljanska banka d.d. and Nova Kreditna banka Maribor d.d., in the event of an unfavourable scenario at the end of 2016 you show a capital deficit of EUR 65 million. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we welcome the fact that the mother body, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, has somehow unanimously supported our recommendations and we expect all Members and Members to be aware of the responsibilities and support the two recommendations put forward by the Slovenian Democratic Party in the procedure tomorrow. I will continue to explain the reasons and importance for these recommendations to receive the majority in this National Assembly, namely: Slovenia is the only one of the transition countries that has had to rehabilitate the banking system for the second time at the expense of taxpayers. This second resolution of the banking system has cost Slovenian budget and Slovenian taxpayers more than €5 billion at a given time. In doing so, it should be stressed that there is a high probability that these recovery costs will be significantly higher, as the Constitutional Court also has an opinion on the so-called deletion of subordinate bonds and the budget will suffer an additional burden of more than half a billion euros from this title. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have already warned, at the time of the adoption of this law, that this is a way to assess that it is inadequate and that it is highly likely that the Constitutional Court will decide that this act is unconstitutional. It should be stressed that in the Slovenian Democratic Party we would expect the so-called December 13, 2013, protests, when we have already fixed the banking system for the second time and more than €5 billion of taxpayer money has been invested in the banking system. At that time, no one wondered why, where were the reasons, and the acceptance of the responsibility itself? The first rehabilitation of the banking system in Slovenia began somewhere between 1993, 1994 and was successfully completed between 1996 and 1997. After the first resolution of the banking system, it was also envisaged that both Nova Ljubljanska banka and Nova Kreditna banka Maribor should be privatised in 2001. We believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that if this programme were followed in 2001 and that both Nova Kredittna banka Maribor and Nova Ljubljanska banka were privatised at the time, there would be significant minor consequences for the second recovery or that this weight would not be on taxpayers, on the budget, but on private investors who would buy shares in these two banks. It should be stressed that, after this rehabilitation at the end of 2013, both from the Finance Minister and from the then Prime Minister and representatives of the Bank of Slovenia, we were able to hear that after this rehabilitation in Europe we have one of the healthiest banks. In 2014, the European Central Bank's single stress tests were followed and, look at it, a fraction, the two largest system banks in Slovenia failed two stress tests. In fact, it was a shock for the Slovenian Democratic Party at the time, because after all the billions invested in the banking system and rehabilitation, and under the assurances of then both the Finance Minister and the Prime Minister that we have the most healthy banks in Europe, the two largest system banks have fallen on these two stress tests. In doing so, it should be noted that the initial position of both New Credit Bank Maribor and Nova Ljubljanska Banka was on these stress tests among the better ones. But after the stress tests were carried out when the projections were made in the event of adverse situations, it became clear that these two banks had fallen and were showing a deficit of EUR 65 million. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we ask where are the reasons why these two of our largest system banks have fallen on these stress tests. Was the rehabilitation of the banking system inadequate at the time, or was it too small to transfer all claims to the so-called bad bank, or were there reasons elsewhere? We are confident that in today's debate both the representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the representatives of the Bank of Slovenia will be able to answer these questions. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we missed one point after this resolution of the banking system, namely, that the government, not the Ministry of Finance, and the Bank of Slovenia have not set either of the two banks a single goal of what will happen to them in the future. It should be pointed out that, on the basis of the rehabilitation of the banking system at the expense of taxpayers, we now have a state-owned majority of banks operating on the market in Slovenia, according to Nova Ljubljanska banka, Nova Kreditna banka Maribor, Abanka, Banka Celje. We have missed the ministry and the government to give these two banks clear goals of what will happen to these banks after this recovery. This means what profitability is expected whether these banks will privatise or not, what recommendations have been made to the board and the supervisory board, how these banks will behave on the market. All these matters are not and we estimate that, as a result, there is a high probability that the recovery of the banking system, the effect on the budget and taxpayers is not yet complete. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are just wondering when the time will come when regulators or the European Central Bank will find that the biggest Slovenian banks need additional recapitalisation. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that part of the responsibility for the situation is also borne by the regulator, the Bank of Slovenia, that not all the tasks that should have been performed, as we estimate that the number of more than €5 billion clearly says that the resulting hole cannot come overnight, but it probably lasted longer. Of course, we are assessing in the Slovenian Democratic Party that the result of all these holes cannot be merely a crime. However, one part of us, of course, assess that it should be investigated both by law enforcement authorities and by the regulator. If we compare the other European banks, we see above all that this rehabilitation of the banking system has cost most Slovenian taxpayers. As already mentioned, we are confident that if the privatisation plan was followed in 2001, the effect on taxpayers and on the Slovenian budget could be significantly lower. So once again, the Slovenian Democratic Party recommends to the National Assembly that within 30 days Banka Slovenije prepares and transmits to the National Assembly information on the reasons for the so-called bank hole and the role of Banka Slovenije in this as a bank regulator in order to verify the effectiveness of the corporate management system of state-owned banks and how to deal with the consequences of bank insolvency. The National Assembly recommends that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia take note of the European Central Bank's stress test within eight days of its adoption, after which our largest NLB and NKBM banks in the event of an unfavourable scenario at the end of 2016 show a capital deficit of EUR 65 million.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u3	Thank you. The proposal for a recommendation was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of Mrs Urska Ban.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u4	Madam President, thank you for your floor. All in attendance, all in attendance! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is held at its 4th session. 1. 2015 As a working parent, the proposal for a recommendation on Banka Slovenije’s activities with regard to the resolution of the banking system submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. The Committee received the following material: proposal for a recommendation, opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. They participated or were invited to participate in the work of the Committee: the proposer, the Legal and Legislative Service, the Government, the Ministry of Finance and the Bank of Slovenia. On the basis of the opinion of the ZPS, the amendments of the SDS Group were tabled at 1 p.m. And point 2 of the recommendation. From the additional explanation of the representative of the Magi applicants. Andreja Širclja concludes that the SDS recommendation is to obtain additional materials with a view to speeding up the resolution of the banking system in view of the still demonstrated state of the bank deficit. In a brief presentation to the Committee, the representative of the Government said that the Government did not oppose the proposed presentation of the results of the stress test of the European Central Bank, and that the government also provided the required results of the stress tests in the reception material of the National Assembly. In addition, he explained that in November 2014, a single control mechanism was in place, with the European Central Bank joining a comprehensive assessment of the operations of banks prior to the acquisition of full supervisory powers. The main activities of that assessment were to review the quality of the assets and stress tests by first checking whether the assets in the balance sheet at 31 December 2013 were properly evaluated. By applying such an approach on the basis of common definitions of both uniform concepts and a single methodology for assessing the balance sheet, banks have become comparable across national borders by reviewing the quality of the assets, reducing the baseline capital level prior to stress tests. The stress tests showed the resistance of the load scenario balance using the baseline and the disadvantage scenario and only the resistance of the balance sheet for a period of three years, from 2014 to 2016. The scenarios in the stress tests were not a forecast for future events, but a test of prudential and safe operations which checked the Bank's ability to worsen the economic situation by using conservative macroeconomic trends based on the European Commission's winter macroeconomic forecast for 2014. It was stated that under the basic stress test scenario, none of the Slovenian banks would show a capital deficit at the end of 2016 by showing a capital surplus of EUR 755 million under the basic scenario, while two banks, NLB and NKBM, would show a lower capital deficit of EUR 65 million and the SID bank would still have a capital surplus in the end of 2016. In view of the fact that both banks had taken measures to strengthen the stability and efficiency of the restructuring in 2014, the capital deficits with retained profits and the reduction of their risk assets were considered to have been identified. In addition, the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia agreed with the recommendation and stressed that, following the adoption of the recommendation in the National Assembly, the Bank of Slovenia will prepare a report on the causes of the capital deficit in the reviewed banks regarding the role of the Bank of Slovenia as a bank regulator, both in terms of the effectiveness of the corporate governance system of state-owned banks and in terms of dealing with the consequences of the capital inadequacy of business banks. At the hearing, the Committee, at the initiative of the representative of the Bank of Slovenia, adopted an amendment to point 1 of the Recommendation, which is editorial in nature. The Committee also adopted both amendments of the SDS Group on points 1 and 2 of the Recommendation and adopted the recommendation in full afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u5	Thank you. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Here you are, Mr. Dronja Method, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u6	Dear Members and Members, Madam Vice-President, Mr Governor! Allow me to present the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the proposal for a recommendation to inform the National Assembly of the stress test of the European Central Bank and briefly the effects and measures taken by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, together with the Bank of Slovenia, to ensure the further stability of the banking system. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as already stated in the Home Committee, is not opposed to the proposal for a recommendation and has already sent the National Assembly an appropriate briefing and its view on the results of the stress tests of the European Central Bank, which have also been transmitted to Members and Members. In November 2014, a single control mechanism began to operate. Prior to taking over the full supervisory powers of this single mechanism, the European Central Bank has launched a comprehensive assessment of the operations of banks, the main parts of which were a review of the quality of funds and stress tests. The asset quality review actually checked whether the assets in the bank balance sheets were properly evaluated after the end of 2013. Using common defined concepts, which differed slightly, and uniform methodologies for assessing the balance sheet, banks became comparable across national borders. By reviewing the quality of the assets, the deficit of the corresponding capital was thus placed on the common denominator and stress tests showed the resilience of the balance sheet in the loading scenarios. Two scenarios were envisaged; the resilience of the balance sheet, some normal and stressful over a period of three years from 2014 to 2016. In each year, credit institutions had to reach an average of at least 8 % of ordinary best-quality equity in the baseline scenario and at least 5,5 % in the unfavourable stress scenario. Scenarios in stress tests were not a forecast of future events, but merely a test of prudential and safe business in which the ability of banks to cope with worse economic conditions was tested. Thus, conservative macroeconomic movements based on the European Commission's 2014 winter macroeconomic forecast were used for the basic scenario of stress tests. These significantly deviated from the actual trends in 2014 and current forecasts by both Banka Slovenije and the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for macroeconomic analysis and development, and this was also the main reason that the two Slovenian banks showed a stress scenario result that did not meet the criteria set. In this part it is therefore necessary to highlight, as we have also pointed out in the paper, that the assumption for 2014 was negative 1.8% economic growth achieved in 2014, according to recent estimates – these are not final data – and 2.5% positive economic growth. This is said to be more than 4 percentage points of difference in the scenario, which was the basis for an unfavourable scenario. For both banks with a reduced deficit in 2014, measures have been taken to strengthen the stability and impact of the restructuring that have been carried out effectively, which is recognised to us both by the European Commission and the International Monetary Fund, and have contributed to the effective functioning of the banking system and that further measures taken primarily by the Authority Act and the Bank Resolution Fund can achieve the stability of the banking system in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u7	I give the floor to the Governor of Banka Slovenije, Dr. Boštjan Jazbec, for an introductory explanation of the opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u8	President, Members and Members of Parliament! Thank you very much for the invitation and, above all, for the recommendation on Banka Slovenije's activities regarding the rehabilitation of the banking system, which we are fully welcoming and preparing, so that within 30 days – as the parent committee recommended and the National Assembly, I hope today – we will prepare information on the reasons for the bank's bank hole and role as bank regulator for the efficiency of the state-owned corporate management system and how to deal with the consequences of insolvency of business banks. I would only ask if we could rephrase this last request and instead of writing "the consequences of insolvency of business banks", we write "because of the capital inadequacy of banks", i.e. insolvent banks are not being resolved, but closed. At the same time, we will be participating in the debate today or gathering all the questions and comments that will help us in the final report and in the preparation of the report, which we will present within 30 days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u9	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Joint Left Group, for which Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, chairman. Hello without curtosis, because I'm going to be relatively long and I don't have much time. In the United Left, we assess the situation in the banking system significantly differently than the proposers. We argue that the two right-wing coalitions in which the majority of the proposing party were the most responsible for – I quote – 'the resulting capital deficit of the reviewed banks'. Therefore, we estimate that it is one of the manoeuvres to place responsibility on others, on the system, on octopuses, on uncles from behind, on the Mafia, on Bolfenka, if you like. Another aspect is whether the adoption of this Decision, at least by informing the public, would contribute to identifying the actual responsibilities and structural causes of the situation we are discussing. Most of the bad claims were made, we know, at the time of the overheating of the economy in 2005-2008. After entering the European area, this process could not be completely avoided during the European conjuncture. Neither the then government nor the Bank of Slovenia have implemented any anticyclical macroeconomic action. The then coalition and its people in the parastatal funds did nothing to limit credit investment activities. I will quote Dr. Prašnik, quote from this time: "The pattern of indebtedness and investment of major Slovenian companies shows the absence of any macroeconomic brakes. At the same time, the operators of the then economic policy actively participated in the management acquisitions of businesses and in the inflatability of church and secular financial holding companies by selling state and parastatal shares." For example, state and parastatal shares of companies such as Mercator were not sold on their own. The next major mistake was the indecisiveness of the Pahor government in recapitalising banks. The banks have deposited deposits but have not increased capital. The baptism of the Bank of Slovenia was precisely the conduct of the Bank of Slovenia, which, one year in front of other regulators in mid-2010, increased capital adequacy and caused a credit crunch. This spasm continues today despite recapitalisations, the transfer of bad claims and cheap money to the European Central Bank. Under the direction of the last three governors and under the dictatorship of the European Central Bank, the Bank of Slovenia has proved incapable of predicting events and carrying out countercyclical measures. Regrettably, it also proved unworthy in the conduct of stress tests and in the mass socialisation of private debts imposed in December 2013. In the United Left, we agree with the analysis of colleague Križanič, quote: "Slovenia was in artificially organised economic shock in 2012 and 2013 and some extremely harmful macroeconomic moves were adopted in this shock. One of the worst was a huge increase in public debt in the divestment of state commitment from a purely private relationship." End of quote. Dr. Križanič also rightly points out the issue of stress tests, something the Secretary of State said. The basis for recapitalisation and transfer of claims to a bad bank was the most negative assessment. The Bank of Slovenia has recapitalised the entire private bank of Probanko and Factor Banka. The question whether this decision was in line with the third paragraph of Article 20 of the Regulation for the Strengthening of the Stability of Banks, which states that when a statement is taken into account, I quote, "the reference to the financial stability bank". In the United Left, we estimate that the stress tests 2013 were unworthy and that too much public funding was spent. This is also stated on the basis of the implementation of last year's stress tests, where the deficit in question has been identified. A key issue that we do not agree with the applicant and not with the government is whether all these tests have been carried out with credibility. In the United Left, we cannot agree that decisions that can increase government debt by billions of dollars are made on the basis of some experiments rather than on the basis of objective forecasts of future events. In 2013, 3 and a half billion state funds were injected into the banks, not to mention guarantees for bad bank bonds issued. Such operations shall not be performed on the basis of experiments. Slovenia has considered these tests significantly more stringent than other countries, in fact stricter than all, with the partial exception of Ireland – Mr Dragonja spoke about this. I'll just say if we compare Austria to Slovenia. In Austria the difference between the actual GDP this year and the negative scenario is only 0.5 percentage points, in Slovenia this difference – depending on what forecast we are looking at – is 3.6 or even 4 percentage points lower than the actual one. We can believe in coincidences, but the fact is that we have been treated more strictly than elsewhere, so in the United Left we estimate that the identified deficit of two state banks is largely fictitious and unequivocally affecting the price of state assets. New Credit Bank Maribor is in the sales process and what is better for advocates of privatisation and for customers than news that diminishes the reputation and value of the state bank. If I had more time to argue that no normal person sells a bank of 0.2, 0.3 books of value, or even lower, that is even clear to me as a sociologist. Is the adoption of this Decision at least by informing the public helping to identify the actual responsibilities and structural causes of the situation? If I analyze the conclusions in a row. "The Bank of Slovenia is expected to inform the National Assembly within 30 days of the causes of the capital deficit in banks and the role of the Bank of Slovenia in doing so." The macroeconomic causes of bad claims are already known. The academics have already said much about this, from the responses of the representatives of Banka Slovenije at the current meetings it is clear that they are not the address for objective analysis of their own mistakes. "The report of the Bank of Slovenia is expected," I quote, "the effectiveness of the corporate governance system of banks owned by the State." The positions of Banka Slovenije’s management regarding State ownership of banks are very clear and have been publicly expressed by management on several occasions, since it has not been chosen randomly, but because of its public neoliberal views, concrete bad practices and those responsible for them in this report will of course not be. Therefore, something else should be needed – a forensic audit or a criminal investigation into the responsibilities of politicians, state officials, para-state fund managers and state-owned enterprises and banks. Further – "There is a way to resolve the capital inadequacy of banks." Banka Slovenije regularly reports recapitalisations and transfers of claims to a bad bank. With regard to the coverage of the alleged 65 million deficit, it has already been made clear that it will be covered by current profits. We probably won't get more detailed information about the bank's business secrets. The same applies to the second recommendation that the Government report on the situation and measures to ensure an adequate state policy regarding the results of the stress test. I don't know why we're deliberating because the government has already stated in its opinion that it is not opposed to the report. The decision is over, the information we have already received, the government better, obviously, does not intend to give, for the same reasons as we cannot expect from the Bank of Slovenia. Finally, however, we cannot expect any significant impact from these recommendations, no new relevant information. But it doesn't matter either. There is no such thing as insanely specific damage, except that the National Assembly, after unnecessary loss, wastes time on such and such a debate. What is important is that, with such recommendations, we are told by those who controlled this country four years before the crisis, during the overheating of the economy, and two years during the crisis. The same party, the SDS, which has finally adopted the Act on Bank Stability Measures, which has strongly contributed to the election of the Governor of Banka Slovenije, is now sending us the brains and working that they have nothing with this state in which we are. Since I had some time left, yesterday I was struck by a stomach virus and, unfortunately, I was absent when we discussed which kitties would be in the anthem of the Republic of Slovenia. My dears, if we continue to do so, there is only one chorus that can be an hymn of the Republic of Slovenia, a chore from a famous Belarusian song that goes like this: "Poor I have no one. I don't have a father, I don't have a mother, I don't have a baby." Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u11	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr. Joseph Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Mr President of the National Assembly, distinguished colleagues and respected colleagues, distinguished Governor of the Bank of Slovenia Dr. Jazbec, Secretary of State! Today's debate on banking in Slovenia is one in a number of debates on this subject, with one but an important difference; the proposal for recommendations was adopted on the parent committee, i.e. by the votes of opposition and coalition members of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. We expect that the proposal for a recommendation will also receive the same support at the meeting of the National Assembly. Members of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be supported by a proposal for recommendations on Banka Slovenije's activities regarding the resolution of the banking system. Today's debate will certainly be in the direction of identifying the causes of the resulting capital deficit of two state-owned system banks, the New Ljubljana Bank and the New Maribor Credit Bank. Indeed, these two banks have not undergone the stress tests published by the European Central Bank last autumn. In the event of an unfavourable scenario at the end of 2016, i.e. next year, the two banks would have shown a capital deficit of EUR 65 million. Despite the relatively short time before the stress tests, both banks were cleared of their bad claims and recapitalised with our tax money. This raises the logical question of the role of the Bank of Slovenia and its effectiveness in the role of bank regulator. In particular, this applies to past periods of intensive lending. According to prominent banking economists, Banka Slovenije should act as a banking regulator to raise capital requirements for both banks. Such a measure would have acted countercyclically, but it has not done so and we have faced the big bank hole covered by the taxpayer's money. Following the latest results of the stress tests of the European Central Bank, it is now the task of the Bank of Slovenia to thoroughly review and analyse the causes of the capital deficit. Its task is also to review where supervision of business banks has been weak and how to ensure the effective implementation of its regulatory role in the future. Members and Members of New Slovenia are also expected to put on the table the responsibility of the supervisory boards of the state banks. That's not what we're talking about, Your Honor, but we should. This question, ladies and gentlemen, is of the opinion that New Slovenia would deserve an in-depth debate in the National Assembly. It will certainly contribute to better control by the European Central Bank, which has entered into force 4. 11th year last year. Christian Democrats are also convinced that the privatisation of state banks must be carried out as soon as possible, that is to say, to find a responsible owner, which is the greatest guarantee for the efficient management of the banking system. This way we can avoid further bank holes and related recapitalisations by taxpayers. In the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, we are convinced that the resulting bank hole in Slovenia is not so much the result of the global financial crisis or is to a lesser extent the result of incompetence, irregularity and illegality of work and we can say corrupt and criminal activities of banking elites; elites who control banking, economic and political space. The Minister of Justice, the current Minister of Justice, the former KPK president would say that the bank hole is responsible for the grey eminence of the Slovenian banking system. In the current discussions on banking, we have taken note of the KPK report, which states in its report that there is a circle of people who are constantly circulating within the banking system, for the second time in the role of supervisor. Of course, all these members of the elite have never so far been responsible for their work and decisions, either criminally or not politically. In Novi Slovenija we are concerned about the slowness of the work of the bodies of investigation and also of prosecution. Data was provided by the specialised state prosecutor's office to complete the investigation of banking crime at the specialized state prosecutor's office by the end of 2014. Expenditure was also provided for the support of the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office for these purposes. But we still have no real results in this area. We are also concerned about the slowness of the work of the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office and the courts in the area of seizure of property of illegal origin. We have legislation, but we do not implement it and we listen to excuses that it is a new law, that it takes time for staff reinforcements to be needed, that the institute should be introduced into the system and so on and so forth. We are wondering how our country has experienced judicial proceedings for years and years, while in other countries of the European Union these procedures are taking place significantly faster and more effectively and how in other countries of the European Union an individual institution can start working immediately and deliver results in the first year, and there are no results for us in the next two years. We are pleased to hear from the Governor of Banka Slovenije, Dr. Boštjan Jazbec that Banka Slovenije is already implementing a decision that has been taken on the working body and will be interesting to discuss the report or the information that will be provided to us by Banka Slovenije. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u13	The word is given by the Alliance's Group, for her mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u14	Dear President, Governor, ladies and gentlemen! Recently, we have been doing a lot of work with our banks and the rehabilitation of the banking system, but it is a mistaken belief that the banks were not on the agenda until 2013 or 2014. It is true that at that time we started to solve the problems that had already accumulated in our banks, most of them in 2006 and 2007. But it is true that Slovenia is not a lonely case, an oasis where banks have problems. We can be very precise; already in 2007 there was a financial market break, but it was not until 2013 that we took major steps towards stabilising the banking system. If the solution to this problem were to be addressed earlier, this recovery or stabilisation of the financial system could also be significantly cheaper. It was necessary to take difficult decisions on the controlled liquidation of Probank and the Bank's Factor to recapitalise NLB, NKBM and Abank while transferring their poor claims to the so-called bad bank. We all remember the long wait for the checks requested from us by the European Commission. Let us remember the waiting period when the amount of funds needed to recapitalize our banking system was being guessed. These guesses, if I recall, ranged to Euro12.13 billion and, of course, our ability to rehabilitate the banks themselves was also being guessed. Back then, we realized that only the rehabilitation of banks would not be enough. There was also a need to prepare appropriate legislation for recovery and, above all, a debt to the economy. Here I am thinking mainly of the revised insolvency law, which allowed for the financial restructuring of over-indebted companies at an early stage. Thus, a legal basis was adopted to accelerate and facilitate the implementation of out-of-court restructuring and the conversion of debt into capital. The appropriate legal framework provides appropriate incentives for creditors, owners and managers, which is essential for facilitating the implementation of financial restructuring, otherwise of a non-liquid but profitable undertaking. The stress tests carried out by the ECB under the Single Supervisory Mechanism in 2014 have shown that a lot has already been done and much more needs to be done. This is what we believe in the Alliance, and that is why we believe that it is crucial that the Bank of Slovenia prepares a report on why two recently rehabilitated banks have again shown a capital deficit in an unfortunate scenario. We are confident that it will prove to be the reason for those measures that we have run out of time and that I am thinking about preparing measures to restructure small and medium-sized enterprises. We will, of course, support the proposal for recommendations. However, we expect the Government, if not otherwise, to start actively and as quickly as possible with the Bank of Slovenia report by preparing measures that will enable the rapid and successful business and financial restructuring of small and medium-sized enterprises. These measures will, in our firm conviction, contribute to both stronger economic growth and the long-term stability of the banking system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u15	The word is sent by the SMC Group, for her mag. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u16	Dear President, Members and Members, Representative of the Government, Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, very nice greeting! Today there is a question of the state of the banks in the Republic of Slovenia and the burden they bear this year, it is said in 2015. The general assessment is that banks owned by the State are in a completely different situation than they were a year ago. This is because three banks have somehow drawn the line in early 2014 and have somehow left a significant part of their bad business from the past and, as is known, transferred claims to the Company for the Management of Bank Claims. This probably does not mean that the problems of the Slovenian banking sector are forgotten. From the point of view of current business, it is crucial that the interest margin, also likely at the expense of recapitalisation with government bonds, is improved and that most banks will successfully end their business year. In the Slovenian banking system in general, the balance sheet sum is squandered. This cannot be avoided by Nova Ljubljanska banka, Nova Kreditna banka Maribor and Abanka, we can also add Banka Celje, although they have received state aid. The increased credit activity, also due to the situation in which the companies were located, is not yet realistically expected to have the situation in which the companies were located. The fact is that the growth of bad credits after the fall due to the transfer to the Bank's Claims Management Company continues again. This is what we are convinced by the operation of the banking system in the past year. At 9 months, the same system showed EUR 108 million in profits by taxes and EUR 11 million in losses at 11 months. It is worrying, however, that in these two months there has been a weakening of €150 million and it is logical to ask whether the banking system can be kept above the level in such a way. The stabilisation of the situation in the previous year of the Slovenian banking system and the low interest rates of the European Central Bank could somehow have a positive impact on lending activity. But the truth is partly different. The conditions for our banks are not ideal. Companies, especially larger ones operating in our business environment, have even more access to financial markets and foreign banks with relatively favourable lending conditions, while maintaining low interest rates in the long term could have a negative impact on margins. Today we are considering recommendations regarding Banka Slovenije's activities regarding the resolution of the banking system. Due to the above-mentioned situation in the Slovenian banking system and the alarming level of impairment at the end of the previous year, the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Mir Cerar on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy supported the recommendation that the National Assembly recommend to the Bank of Slovenia, within 30 days, that it prepare and transmit to the National Assembly information on the causes of the capital deficit of the banks reviewed and the role of the Bank of Slovenia as a bank regulator, on the effectiveness of the corporate governance system of banks owned by the State and on how to deal with the consequences of the capital inadequacy of business banks. We will also support the recommendation in question today. We will also support the recommendation that the National Assembly propose to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to report to it within eight days of receiving this recommendation on the situation and measures to ensure the country's appropriate policy regarding the results of the stress test of the European Central Bank, after which our largest banks of the New Ljubljana Bank and the New Credit Bank of Maribor, in the event of an adverse scenario at the end of 2016, show a capital deficit of EUR 65 million. While the Government has sent the content and has already presented it in its opinion, it is right to send it officially on the basis of this proposal for a decision. On this occasion, I would touch another so-called bank hole. In the coalition contract, Mira Cerar's party committed itself to investigating the bank hole and defining liability, so in order to ensure a return of confidence in the financial institutions, supervisory institutions and the rule of law institutions, it is necessary to define responsibility for the resulting bank hole and to require the compensation and material liability of members of the administrations and supervisory boards of the recapitalised banks. The responsibility for carrying out the investigation of the bank hole shall be transferred from the Bank of Slovenia Claims Management Company to the Bank of Slovenia and, in the case of suspected criminal offences, to the competent law enforcement authorities. In the Mir Cerar Party, we are aware of the seriousness of this matter and it is essential that this is included in the government's action programme to prevent corruption for the period 2015 to 2016 in the so-called zero tolerance to corruption programme. Under this programme, the identification of past corruption in banking transactions and the preparation of appropriate grounds for their prevention and detection should be carried out. On the basis of this, we believe in the Mir Cerar Party that all of us, who are or are involved in the banking system of the Republic of Slovenia, are acting in the direction that the banking system is stable. As already mentioned, the Mir Cerar Group will support both recommendations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u17	The text is given by the SDS Group of Members, for which Mrs Susana Pretty Šimenko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Members and honourable Members, Honourable Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, Honourable Secretary of State! In the Slovenian Democratic Party we propose two recommendations which relate mainly to the rehabilitation of the banking system; the rehabilitation which was carried out in 2013 and partly in 2014. Given that we have invested a lot of tax money in the state banks, it is only right that we pay more attention to this topic. The 2013 annual report of the Bank of Slovenia on the competent working bodies showed that the report did not contain comprehensive information on the rehabilitation of the Slovenian banking system, which was implemented at the end of 2013. The rehabilitation of the Slovenian banking system has cost us more than €5 billion so far, and this figure is not definitive, as the fall of both the largest state banks in the stress test of the European Central Bank will require additional funds to ensure capital adequacy. In doing so, we must not forget the Constitutional Court's judgment against the holders of subordinated bonds for their deletion. In the event of their finding, the cost of repairing the banking system for taxpayers will increase by an additional EUR 500 million. As already mentioned, the two biggest Slovenian banks, which are state-owned, have failed the recent stress test of the European Central Bank. The capital deficit identified will most likely have to be covered by the recapitalisation of both banks. The drop in stress tests also indicates that the bank system was not successful. More than €5 billion of taxpayers were obviously not enough. The responsibility for the situation lies with the Government, as it has not provided effective and effective supervision and management of banks. There is also responsibility on the part of the Bank of Slovenia, which apparently still does not exercise its control well enough. It is also a matter of concern that, despite the rehabilitation of the banking system and its investments, I repeat, EUR 5 billion, this amount is probably not complete. Likewise, the Government has not yet adopted a State Banking Strategy with clearly defined objectives and a return policy at least part of the tax money invested. For those reasons, we have proposed two recommendations in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. In the first recommendation, we recommend that Banka Slovenije provide information to the National Assembly on the reasons for the so-called bank hole and the role of Banka Slovenije as a bank regulator; to provide information on the effectiveness of the corporate governance system of state-owned banks and information on how to deal with the consequences of the capital inadequacy of business banks. With a second recommendation, we want the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to inform the National Assembly about the European Central Bank's stress test, by which our largest state-owned banks show a capital deficit. We will, of course, support the proposed recommendations in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. We are also pleased that the recommendations have been adopted by the majority on the home working body, the Committee on Finance. And I believe that the recommendations proposed will receive similar support at the vote tomorrow.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u19	The text is given by the Desus Group, Mr Uroš Prikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u20	Dear Mr President, representatives of the Government, representatives of the Central Bank, colleagues and colleagues! We will recommend the support of the Desus Group. In our parliamentary group, we are united in the belief that the reasons for the creation of the so-called bank hole must be defined and that responsibility for the multimillion-dollar recapitalisation must be defined. That is why we have consistently insisted that this must also be enshrined in the coalition contract. The definition of liability for damage that plagues our country is crucial for restoring confidence in financial institutions, their supervisory authorities and, last but not least, as we would like to stress, the institution of the rule of law. Despite the multibillion-dollar recapitalisation, we were very surprised in the Desus Group when the European Central Bank's stress tests showed that Nova Ljubljanska banka and also Nova Kreditna banka Maribor would show a capital deficit of EUR 65 million in the event of an unfavourable scenario. The stress tests showed the resistance of the balance sheet in the loading scenarios. A basic and unfavourable scenario was envisaged and the resilience of the balance sheet was determined for a period of three years, last year, this year and the future. According to the basic stress test scenario, none of the Slovenian banks tested at the end of 2016 would show a capital deficit, and two banks, Nova Ljubljanska Banka and Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor, would show a lower capital deficit of EUR 65 million, SID Banka, interestingly, and even in an unfavourable scenario would show a capital surplus. In addition, the Governor of Banka Slovenije argued that in the event of an adverse scenario, the capital deficit would be covered by retained profits, as we know that the European Central Bank does not allow the payment of the profits of banks that have been recapitalised by the State. In addition to reporting on stress testing measures, the National Assembly would recommend, by adopting a recommendation on Banka Slovenije's activities in relation to the rehabilitation of the Banka Slovenije Banka banking system, that within 30 days it provide the National Assembly with information on the causes of the capital deficit of the banks reviewed, the efficiency of the management of state-owned banks and the way in which the consequences of the capital failure of business banks are addressed. Your Honor! Simply put, it is time to discover the culprits who have for years deepened the hole in the banking system. The one at the beginning was as small as a spinach, like a hole in an enamel, and ended up with a deep crater. The excuse that it all started in the American mortgage market and ended up in our backyard, outside our door, is too simple and too convenient. At the time of the merger, the market was filled with cheap money and banks issued loans without a serious assessment of the creditworthiness of the borrowers. In these places it would be called that, over the thumb. This money has been good for quite some time, and it has been a pleasant life. This one bought a car, a second yacht, and a weekend at sea, again the third one got a big loan for his construction company. As long as there's a lot of cheap money in circulation, life is for some as a look through pink glasses. And there's a crisis in the United States that's rapidly spreading all over the world and the credits are suddenly increasing. All of a sudden, the banks are stuck with inherited investments and the recapitalisation of them needs to be plunged into an enormous amount of money like a bottomless pit. So we're going from one extreme to another. We all paid this bill, we felt it. Most of all, however, he was felt by those who are already at the social bottom and who do not care about yachts, expensive cars, cruises that do not have tickets at the end of the month, and to cover the most basic expenses. In Maribor we call it when they have nothing to give to the writer; and this is frightening and disturbing. Transposing the blame from one to the other, without a serious assessment, without a serious analysis, but of course I will not mention the actions of the Hypo Bank here, does not mean anything at all. In the Desus Group, we firmly believe that compensation and material responsibility should be required for members of administrations and supervisory councils. This is mainly because we believe that a number of recapitalisations have led to an effect called "too big, it's a failure" in the United States. It is the belief that it is between the major system banks that the state will solve them forever because they are simply too large to let them die. In the Desus Group, we are firmly aware that the patching of the bank hole required a huge amount of resources, which, unfortunately, were not used to finance the most important or essential areas, which Desus has always advocated and exposed to – the difficult valorisation of pensions. It is said that we expect to see her this year and that we will also spend money on pensions that have not been coordinated for many years. Further for public health, further for social and not least for the economy. Indeed, we understand a successful economy as a fundamental condition for the creation of a society, prosperity and the exercise of all social and economic rights. However, the condition for a successful economy lies in the foundations of sound system banks. The research into the causes of the emergence of the so-called bank hole and the definition of the liability of members of the boards of directors and the supervisory boards of the recapitalised banks should definitively end the ten-year period of lending to managers for purchases and similar successions of investments based on science and exchange of services. Last but not least, my colleague has already said that we have entered into a coalition contract to investigate a bank hole and define liability. Secondly, banking recovery and an active approach to resolving bad claims. We understand the coalition contract as a binding document and we will stick to it, both in this and in all other segments. On conclusion. In the Desus Group, we will therefore support the proposal for recommendations in order for bad practices to be permanently discontinued and for a banking system worthy of sovereign countries such as Slovenia to be restored. In the end, it's not the most important thing. Finally, we want banks that will serve both physical and legal economic operators and such banks that will be aware of their basic mission and will be socially responsible in the true sense of the word. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u21	The word is given by the SD Group of Members, Dr. Franz the Crusader.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u22	Mr. President, the well-respected High Council! Banks gambled during the overheating of economic activity from 2004 to 2008. Gambling wasn't some fictitious value of bills and coins, it turns out they were messing with the fate of human life. Human lives were being thrown around by banks like chips on a corner casino gaming table — said in a parable, plainly. Banka Slovenije should take the role of supervisor in this dangerous game – it is said that if we continue with the parable of the casino – the croupier. And what should a group be doing that is aware of its responsibilities? As a description of his works, he defines the definition on the website of the Employment Institute: the groups between the game are controlled by players and co-workers, he points to incorrect behaviour, non-compliance with the rules, for example the illicit exchange of information between players, in the event of irregularities or errors in the game, he cancels and repeats the game. But Banka Slovenije, like this group in the parable, did not do it either. She only did that part of the deal, which requires that when the outcome of the game is known, she announces the winning results, pays the winners and collects the winnings. And that's what Banka Slovenije did with a medal. After the shock, she and the Government announced the results, after which nearly EUR 5 billion was paid. Payments have since been collected from the losers, and increasing public debt shows that they will be collected for the next few years. The Bank of Slovenia monitors all of this cynically by finding out how this payment was made at a minimum sufficient level and, as possible, even if unlikely, allows for a scenario of need for recapitalisation. The passive role of Banka Slovenije, which should limit bank gambling, has made a significant contribution to the crisis in which our banking system was located. But that's not all! The Bank of Slovenia, by inadequate regulation, caused a decline in lending to the economy. In July 2010, it came with a demand for a rapid increase in the capital adequacy of business banks; much faster than the German regulator for German banks had demanded. Business banks in Slovenia responded to this measure by starting to reduce the volume of loans to the economy. They terminated the credit relations, regardless of the purpose of the loans granted and the actual maturity of their repayment. That's the point of our bad loans. However, the persistence of the Bank of Slovenia in this activity shows that this is a plan. If it were a mistake, that's entirely excusable, it just happens. From July 2010 to November 2013, business bank loans to non-financial corporations, a real part of the economy, decreased by €4.2 billion or 20%. In December 2013, the country started transferring loans to a bad bank, which did not stop the decline in lending to the economy. The volume of bank loans to non-financial corporations is smaller from month to month, November last year, this is the latest published data, it was only 12 billion euros, slightly less even, and only this month has fallen – there are also write-offs here, it is necessary to know – for 142 million euros. EUR 12 billion, ladies and gentlemen, is the sum corresponding to the two-year amount of gross savings in Slovenia at macroeconomic level. When we look at revenue formation from 2012, it's capital consumption, depreciation of 5.9 billion, net business surplus of 6.4 billion euros, totalling 12.3 billion euros. Thus, with a two-year gross surplus, all claims can be settled, as Ceausescu once did in Romania. And in an economy that belongs, let's say, according to its tradition, to the continental part of Europe and which we can assume is crediting the basic source of power to the economy with the necessary accumulation, not so much direct investment in the stock markets. But let us go back to the beginning of this story and answer the question that, as an institution responsible to people, we should have before our eyes as long as we decide on the budget, on the fiscal rule and so on. The key question is who are the victims of this gambling with regard to the inadequate regulation of the banking system. We don't have to go too far to answer, enough to look beyond the walls of this house, to all the people who lost their jobs, in the fates of the people who lost their dignity, in the fates of the people who lost their future. And worst of all, there are many children among the latter. Today’s debate is unlikely to contribute in any way to correcting the wrongs and errors committed. Nevertheless, we will support the proposed recommendations in the Group of Social Democrats with the hope that they will be met and in the hope that they will contribute to the wiser behaviour of regulators in the future. This time, let's not just leave it at will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u23	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members. Mr. Tomaž has the floor [[…]] First, the proposaler signed up, so he's got the word mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u24	Dear President, thank you for your word! In opening, I would like to welcome this decision by all the parliamentary groups that – most – have announced their support for the recommendations made by the Slovenian Democratic Party. This has in some ways shown that the act and proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party has been appropriate and correct, and that we are aware of the problem that we have with the banks, and that, according to our assessment, this problem has not yet been completed and that it can become even bigger than it is. On the basis of the proposal of the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia to correct this recommendation, I do not think that we have these problems in the Slovenian Democratic Party, namely that the way in which the consequences of insolvency of business banks are resolved is transformed into a way of resolving capital adequacy, as you proposed. Of course, we would probably expect some answers from the regulator, particularly the Bank of Slovenia, in the debate that we will have with the Members and Members of Parliament, even in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We may also have given this dictatorship the insolvency of business banks due to the consequences of the removal of subordinated bonds. Because here I would probably like to see some additional phenomena why you decided to take this measure on the basis of what that marriage ground is. The Bank of Celje and the holders of subordinated bonds of the Bank of Celje have also received the latest measures. For in all these prospectuses we could see that the value of subordinated bonds is converted into capital under only two conditions: whether the bank is going to wind up or the bank is going bankrupt. Now we know that both with the New Bank of Credit Maribor, with NLB, with Banka Celje as with Abank there was no liquidation and no bankruptcy, yet the owners were left without all the property and now there is a constitutional assessment in here. Let us wait for this to happen, but in the case of a decision by the Constitutional Court that will benefit holders, it will likely be interesting to see who will take responsibility for this or what the consequences will be. The consequences will certainly be for the budget, and here we estimate that this recovery can still be of significantly higher value than today, which is estimated to be somewhat less than €5 billion. Perhaps we should also touch on the position taken by the United Left as a proposal, namely that these recommendations are irrelevant, that they have already been dealt with by the Monetary Policy Committee, but that the National Assembly has not yet been briefed on all these matters and that it is also right for the Slovenian Democratic Party to be informed by the National Assembly and the general public. We have had some concerns about the credibility of stress tests in the Slovenian Democratic Party from the very beginning. In particular, we had doubts that Banka Slovenije did not provide us with sufficient quality information and that in fact from the committee to the committee when we discussed the various issues of the banking system, that somehow on every committee Banka Slovenije she served us with some new information. The Slovenian Democratic Party would expect in particular this integrity of the information provided regarding the second resolution of the banking system. Many times, the Governor of Banka Slovenije on the committees has pointed out that we can find all this information on their website, but these data are very scattered. I would like to suggest further, and I am also confident, in view of the position of all the members of the Group, that the Bank of Slovenia prepares one comprehensive document and that in one document it will be summarized from methodology, to results, to most of the resources, because today, when we reach your website, we need to call 100 documents to get some information. I really propose to make a comprehensive document in a whole piece, as the European Central Bank has done in publishing these stress tests. Whether it was on 200 or 250 pages, one click would give you access to this information. On the other hand, I'm still going to ask you a question, Your Honorable Governor. You said on the boards that in these stress tests, in the second resolution of the banking system that was implemented, there were no subsidiaries of these banks involved. This was only about NKBM and NLB. On the one hand, we can read in Officer Del that claims have been transferred to the Company for the Management of Bank Claims, the so-called Bad Bank, including the claims of the Postal Bank and Adria Bank from Vienna. You've never served this information, and you've never served it. Now I am curious about the reasons, and I think it would also make sense for the National Assembly to once become aware of this — a subject of stress testing of who it was, whether there were only mothers, daughters, or dependent societies. This disturbs us most in the Slovenian Democratic Party in the way Banka Slovenije is informed. In a way, you say: we act transparently, we have given all the information, but after more than one year, I think that every month or so we get some new information that denies the actual statements of the representatives of the Bank of Slovenia both in the National Assembly and in the national working body. I think it is correct that today's debate is a little wider about this banking system, because it is necessary to borrow that Slovenia is the only transition country that has already restored the banking system for the second time at the expense of taxpayers. This last rehabilitation cost more than €5 billion. I think you should probably ask yourself what you could do with that money if you didn't have to fix the banking system. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that if the 2001 privatisation plan were followed, the budgetary and taxpayer implications would be significantly lower than before and that it would probably be more normal for these 5 billion to be placed in public health, which is actually on the dog, as we now see, in public education – but above all, where were the unions here? Not a single protest, but the protests are for privatisation. It's never gonna be clear to me. Days ago, the well-respected governor, we found interesting information on one of the media and I am interested in your opinion or comment. This means that the Bank's claims management services are to be implemented by Probank. This was information that was provided on one of the Slovenian media. I wonder if you're aware of that. Does Banka Slovenije have to give any consent? Above all, I want to know what Probank's status is at this point. At that time, we were talking about some controlled liquidation, and today I'm wondering what's in the Probank registry, what's his status, what's his emergency management status, and what's his status in the register. I want to know what Probank's status is. I think we'll be able to open up the subject further. It surprises us that now the Bank's Claims Management Company, which was established to transfer all bad claims to one place and that this company manages them and we were surprised by this information that now one of those banks that went into a major crisis that Banka Slovenije ordered controlled liquidation would now provide certain services to the Claims Management Company. The one who has made trouble and which is why we had to fix the bank and set up the Claims Management Company will now provide services for this bank! Here I think that Banka Slovenije should provide some explanations or your opinion, whether you had to give some consent. And I'm particularly interested in what the status of Probank is like in the register itself. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u25	We are now going to the general debate of MEPs and Members. The first is Mr Tomaž Gantar, Desus, to prepare Mr Jernej Vrtovec, New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u26	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Governor, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! With regard to the bank hole and, above all, the responsibility of those who have caused it, there is undoubtedly a substantial number of questions that are open to us as we have the answers. The rehabilitation of the banking system, which has already been mentioned several times today, has cost over 5 billion taxpayers money, which is over half the proposed budget for this year at the rebalancing stage. One or two magical words, of course "Brussels" and perhaps "bank spasms" and practically overnight were provided 100, 200, 300 million for the individual bank that was needed at that time. Of course, this represented quite a bit of an absurdity in all the other needs that we have always discussed, and perhaps even in a week or a little more, when adopting the balance, we will discuss where and in which area it takes some million to really avoid the collapse of the system, whether it is in the health field or we have recently discussed a few million to care for children with special needs. This is always an insurmountable obstacle and a problem. Of course, when we say that this bank needs 200 million tomorrow, the decision is very simple. It is also surprising, however, that these two banks, after all the hundreds of millions received by the banks, are poorly assessed in stress tests. First, this is where the role is placed, then the Company for the Management of Bank Claims, the Bad Bank. What and how did this bad bank do? Indeed, even the bad claims still in banks had a bearing on the decision on the necessary, possible need to recapitalise the NKBM and the New Ljubljana Bank by 2016. Under what criteria, then, did companies or those poor claims endure, or who did DUTB protect from transferring these bad claims? Was there any fear that the question would be reopened? Why, in fact, are these companies transferred to a bad bank or who unduly granted them credit in recent years? On the other hand, another issue is raised, which is unpleasant, probably in connection with the European Central Bank. Why were the criteria for stress tests different for our banks? Why have some countries changed these criteria why the European Central Bank changed the stress test criteria, adapted them to some countries or exacerbated them needlessly? They also based the data on obsoletes, so that, of course, the results were poor and that is why we will probably have to recapitalise the banks further. Is it not, then, that Slovenia would not, by chance, consider not selling any banks or doing someone, as has already been said, a favor for a relatively small bank that can also be recapitalised? Of course, these are rather difficult questions, but it is difficult to avoid doubts that they are really behind the different scenarios of some, and that is why answers to all the questions are needed so much more. I think, given that we have been talking for a long time about the problem of corruption in this country, that it is precisely in the case of this bank hole, which has actually cost us all and will still cost us a lot in the future, that we will still have to find the responsible ones. I believe that there are some reasons in the changed economic situation, some business risks that are also taking place. But it would be difficult for anyone to convince me that there were no very important decisions of a purely criminal nature, of a corrupt nature in these decisions. It would be hard to convince me that someone, for example, got 10, 20 million credits and pawned a house worth, say, 500 thousand euros or a million. Of course, we would expect that these important questions, where no doubt influential individuals are involved, should be answered from left or right or from none. And we're going to need these answers at Desus's. It is time for us to get them, and there is no doubt on my part that we support in the first stage the proposal prepared by the SDS for this meeting. Last but not least, we believe that procedures will have to continue at other levels, and we expect them to continue, especially when the budgetary issues arise. In fact, what we're going to do, because we probably have the same responsibility as the bank, even to hospitals, to their debts. I know that there will also be a heated debate on the subject of pensions, where people who have worked for 40 years cannot end up over the month. I think these are just as important questions and that these people who have to endure this and who are having a hard time doing it deserve all these answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u27	Mr Jernej Vrtovec, New Slovenia has the floor. Get Mr. Uroš Prikl ready, Desus.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u28	Dear colleagues, distinguished President, Secretary of State, Honourable Governor! I am very supportive of the Slovenian Democratic Party's personal recommendations, because the past has shown that in the Slovenian political space, and even in society at all, we need to talk very seriously about the Slovenian banking system, because history has taught us that we have only been able to repair the Slovenian banking system twice because of our own mistakes. In part, it was also the last rescue due to the global crisis. But, see, data shows that banks in foreign ownership have generated EUR 200 million in profits over the past nine years, while Slovenian banks, mostly state-owned banks, have generated EUR 3.2 billion in losses. Here we have to ask ourselves what was behind this loss, what was behind the bank hole. The consequences of this bank hole, these losses, are paid by citizens and citizens in the context of recapitalisation. With more than ten thousand euros, citizens and citizens are helping to resolve the Slovenian banking system, and they are not to blame; they are not to blame. This should be highlighted: first, incompetence, irregularities, corruption and also clienteleism, as well as, of course, clienteleistic activities of certain elites. To say that we were forced into the last recapitalisation is totally wrong; if Brussels is the one that forced us to recapitalise the banks. It's our fault we had to recapitalize them because we're responsible for the bank hole ourselves. Once again, banks in foreign ownership didn't have these problems. And because of this, it is one of the basic solutions, and it seems that we are still not aware, but somehow we are still being hit by the privatisation of Slovenian banks, we continue to postpone the state-owned bank. Once again, if NLB were to be sold a few years ago for 1 euro, and it is likely for 1 euro that no one would want to buy it with such a deficit, they would not have this problem. And if we do not privatise them now, after we have recapitalised them, when citizens and citizens have been paid into the banking system, then we will never again, because also Mr Governor – I think you said at one of the meetings of the Public Finance Supervisory Commission on 20 November, that no new recapitalisation is excluded. And also talk about the credibility of the latest stress tests of the European Central Bank; as see, the issue of methodology is an eternal question, but again we will be the ones who will have to invest financial resources again in the NKBM and NLB. Citizens and citizens, nothing to blame, nothing to owe! Let us also have a serious conversation in the National Assembly, not because of ourselves, but because I personally have enough to pay and service our banking system on a regular basis. Undoubtedly, for the first time, the resulting bank hole affected taxpayers, and for the second time the economy. If we do not start with economic reforms and measures to boost the economy, the bank hole will of course grow. This goes too far. This could also be one of the arguments that we do not have the right incentives for the economy to be shown by the European Central Bank for both NKBM and NLB for 2016 a deficit of EUR 65 million. Maybe?Oh, my God! Most problematic, or one of the problems, is that this credit crunch or that not all bad claims have been moved to a bad bank. This is still a bust, and both NLB and NKBM are still unable to credit economies today, to lend investment, and therefore we cannot talk about the second track, about new investments and so on. And until this spasm is relaxed I would also have a question about what criteria the bank or the bank administrations have taken over to decide which claims are transferred to a bad bank. [[…]] This issue has been raised several times on the committees, both on the Public Finance Supervisory Commission, but here are all members of the National Assembly and it is right to know what these criteria were, what was the reason. I still think that these claims are being transferred too slowly and even at times recklessly to a bad bank. For the end of the line of responsibility. Remember when Mrs Katarina Kresal, Minister of the Interior, was still partly Austrian-owned, if I am not mistaken, the Hypo Bank, a part of the country's ownership, received in essence from the administration or the administration was the one who ordered a forensic investigation into crimes within the Hypo Bank. Do you, ladies and gentlemen, imagine that the NKBM administration or NLB itself would say that they would do a forensic investigation? This is impossible in Slovenia! This is why it applies here, as colleagues have pointed out: one is the question of the supervision of the Bank of Slovenia itself, and the other is the inefficiency of our investigative bodies. In Austria, in the case of Hypo Bank, they acted very quickly. Very fast. And it's the bank itself! The bank's administration itself has ordered a forensic investigation. Unfortunately, nothing happens to us, and in the end, taxpayers are the ones who are rightly bartering over the Slovenian banking system, because there is no trust – and it is logical that it is not. So I repeat, I will support the recommendations of the Slovenian Democratic Party. However, I would like to open a serious discussion in the National Assembly as soon as possible, but they are seriously discussing the privatisation of the Slovenian banking system or at least two banks as soon as possible – the privatisation of NKBM and NLB. Taxpayers will do much better in the event of privatisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u29	The drafter of mags has the floor. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u30	Dear President, thank you for your word! There is only one explanation for this editorial correction of the recommendation, namely that this editorial correction has already been carried out by the home working body, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, and that the National Assembly will also vote on this recommendation as it was proposed for you and that there is no need for any change, namely the way in which the consequences of the capital inadequacy of banks are resolved. Just so much for an explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u31	Thank you. Now Mr Uroš Prikl, Desus, has the floor to prepare Mrs Andreja Katič, SD.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u32	Thank you very much, President. Colleagues and colleagues! I think it is right to support proposals to obtain comprehensive information, all relevant data, how and what has been done in the recapitalisation processes, to actually reject or confirm – in short, to bring the matter to a bottom with different media information, rumors, perhaps even insinuations, what has been wrong and how these were fictitious, adjusted stress tests and how these were different criteria. The fact is that in some countries new movements have been taken into account; in some countries, there has been a slight deterioration, i.e. the criteria under which banks have been assessed; in Slovenia alone, there has been a significant deterioration or a lack of consideration for new trends, new economic movements that have gone up. All of this has, of course, led to this result, as I said before and as we all know it. Under these so-called negative scenarios, both banks would achieve a negative assumption of financial or capital inadequacy of 65 million. It is right to obtain comprehensive relevant information and on the basis of discarding or requiring sanctions against those who have sinned here. Colleagues and colleagues! At this point in time, with all the stressful results and stressful outcomes of all of this, it gives me optimism that we are all Members, virtually all Members of the position and coalition, determined to get to the bottom of the matter, to stop the so-called – forgive me – "dirty robots" and to condemn, however, if it turns out that someone has sinned here and is therefore criminally and indemnity accountable. I am pleased that I am convinced that the government and our central bank, the Bank of Slovenia, have a serious and unequivocal purpose. However, I do not want these stress tests to be stressful – at the end of the day, however, this is a stressful outcome when two recapitalisations conclude that there may still be a capital mismatch in two years in view – that this will not mean any pressure or any impact on the price of banks that are or will be in the short or full time – I hope not – or partly in the sales. In short, we want to get to the bottom of this. Not so the MPs get theirs. I think that the answers are needed and that they are deserved by all those taxpayers, all those natural persons and those companies that, because of the bad operation of banks, their response can beat the edge of the bell, or their daily life is still shaking or shaking as it should be. I am sure and I believe that we will move from words to actions and that these are not empty floscules, but that this is really the purpose of all the relevant factors that I have counted.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u33	Mrs Andreja Katič, SD, has the floor. Get Mrs. Marusha Skopac ready, SMC.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u34	Thank you, President, distinguished representatives of the Government and representatives of the Bank of Slovenia, colleagues and colleagues! I would also like to draw first attention to the question of the All-Slovenian Association of Small Shareholders on the extreme unequal treatment of Slovenian banks. Why is it that only Slovenia maintains statistical and extremely pessimistic assumptions, but why do other countries and banks in the European Union agree to the use of fresh data and dynamic valuation, and even allow for the improvement of capital adequacy through discounted purchases of subordinated bonds? This is also reflected in the stress test report published by the European Central Bank. The Association recalls that, with the exception of Slovenia, the ECB has agreed to use fresh data in all countries where actual movements are better than assumptions, including Greece, Cyprus and Spain – a dynamic evaluation. Only in Slovenia, where this improvement was greatest, has it remained in the use of outdated, statistical and significantly more pessimistic assumptions, which consequently led to pessimistic predictions. Why? Is this how Banka Slovenije really provided practical evidence for its claims if nothing too much tax money was spent on recapitalisation? Why, then, is the uneven and completely unrealistic static valuation of the NLB and NKDM balances, and who is responsible? That's one question. Secondly, after about 5 billion injections, which would be necessary and a precondition for the stabilisation of the financial system – this would then be a prerequisite for the release of the credit crunch and this would be a prerequisite for recovery of economic activity – and we can only find that the logical follow-up is insufficient that banks are still not lending economies to a sufficient extent today. Therefore, the credit crunch does not give up and the banks, as if nothing had happened; they announce lending when the new condition is met, this is the restructuring of the economy. At the same time, banks hold money in short-term deposits abroad. You could say they're just keeping the money with them somehow. It is obvious, therefore, that, on the basis of the wrong economic forecasts, we have recapitalised the banking system. For this reason, we are also facing a situation today when the burden of the public debt on the new bailout package. This also creates pressure on the social state and once again interferes with the restructuring of socio-economic relations. For this reason, the Social Democrats support the recommendations that go in the direction of spreading the fog, especially by identifying who is responsible for this in individual bodies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u35	Mrs. Marusha Škopac, SMC, has the floor. Prepare Mr Jožef Horvat, Nova Slovenija.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u36	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Today we are considering the proposal for a recommendation on Banka Slovenije's activities with regard to the resolution of the banking system submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members of the SDS. We are already at the Committee's meeting, and we will also support both points of the Recommendation today. The first point of the recommendation concerns the report of the Bank of Slovenia, which must be forwarded to the National Assembly. The report should contain the following information: the causes of the deficiencies in the banks reviewed and the role of the Bank of Slovenia in this regard, the effectiveness of the corporate governance system of state-owned banks and the way in which the consequences of the capital inadequacy of business banks are addressed. In the SMC Party, we have already committed ourselves in the coalition contract to investigate the bank hole and to define liability. We believe that it is imperative to define the responsibility for the resulting bank hole in order to restore confidence in the financial and supervisory institutions and the institution of the rule of law, and we have not written this in a fig tree in our pocket, since we certainly have no reason to do this as a new parliamentary party. The recommendation of the Bank of Slovenia can therefore be expected within 30 days of the approval of the proposal in the National Assembly. The second point of the recommendation requires the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to report to the National Assembly on the situation and measures to ensure the country's appropriate policy regarding the results of the stress test of the European Central Bank, which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has already done since its report was an integral part of the Government's opinion. In November 2014, a single control mechanism began to operate, under which the supervision of the system banks of individual Member States passes from the parent central bank to the European Central Bank. In November 2013, it carried out a comprehensive assessment of all system banks in the euro area. In total, 130 banks were reviewed, including three Slovenian banks, Nova Ljubljanska Banka, NKBM and SID Banka. The purpose of the stress test was to determine the resistance of bank balance sheets in loading scenarios. According to the basic test scenario, all three Slovenian banks at the end of 2016 show a capital surplus of EUR 754.7 million, and at the end of 2016, Nova Ljubljanska Banka and Nova Kredittna Banka Maribor would show a lower capital deficit of EUR 65 million and the SID bank would also show a capital surplus in this case. On the basis of the results of the stress tests of the European Central Bank, measures were taken in both banks to restructure and improve profitability by covering identified capital deficits with retained profits and risk reduction assets. Based on the activities already carried out and the awareness of both banks, as their stress test results were, we expect responsible and professional management of banks to prevent a possible negative scenario of an unfavourable stress test. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u37	Mr Jožef Horvat, Nova Slovenija, has the floor to prepare Mrs Suzanne Lepi Šimenko, SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u38	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I think it is necessary to clarify the difference between banking regulation and banking supervision in this debate. I am pleased, however, that this whole debate calls for the responsibility to talk a lot about responsibility. So far, it has somehow seemed, and it still seems, that this concept of "responsibility" in Slovenia is somehow very judgmental and that we do not really see this weight, what responsibility actually means. So there is a significant difference between the terms "bank regulation" and "bank supervision". Banking regulation means regulation of banks, an important element of bank regulation is the determination of capital adequacy, and banking supervision includes verification, monitoring and implementation of bank performance audits to ensure that banks operate in accordance with legislation and rules. Banks are regulated to ensure the good functioning of the economy and to provide it with the necessary goods and services, particularly where there is an asymmetricity of information and the market is unable to manage supply and demand itself. Bank regulation is supervision, so they lay down rules of the game and monitor compliance with the rules. I would like to continue, although I suppose without the hope that anyone would believe my claims, yet somehow I want to move back to a period of drastic credit expansion. One of the parliamentary groups said who was actually responsible for the situation and so on, and probably pointed to the 2004-2008 period when we were in the then coalition. What was going on back then? 1. 1. 2007 we received a common European currency – the euro because we earned it from Slovenia and Slovenia. Banks offered money — and what happened then? Gross external debt grew dramatically. Who contributed? Commercial banks, economic organisations. But the state was delinquent. We had at the end of 2008, when we were actually handing over business to the second government coalition, we had a bad eight billion debt, the country had a bad 8 billion debt, which meant about 22% of GDP. Where are we today? Today we have actually grown on this base of numbers, which are virtually four times larger for the factor. At the hearing of the Investigative Commission of the National Assembly on the identification of abuses in the Slovenian banking system of the former Governor of Banka Slovenije, Dr Gaspari, we asked him what Banka Slovenije had not actually done, but perhaps we should prevent this drastic credit expansion. He said, there are magnetograms and everyone can read it, every citizen can read it – he said there was a question on the table of using a dynamic reservation system to prevent procyclicality in commercial banks' credit activities. We said, however, why you did not then require dynamic reservations and Mr Gaspari said that the European Commission and also PricewaterhouseCoopers had opposed it. In a way, we understand and understand that if Banka Slovenije or God did not give the government any measure to prevent the lending of loans to commercial banks, this would mean the same as if the government of some, for example, refrigerator factory prohibited the production of 500,000 refrigerators per year and determined that only 200,000 should produce them. So if the government would then step on the brakes, if I could say so to commercial banks and ban lending, it would mean preventing them from actually their basic business – core business. I'm sure that wouldn't be right. But anyone who takes credit is responsible for it! And we're back to being responsible, and you're not actually here. The key question is why does none of the members of the Supervisory Board respond to the employment of enterprises, state-owned banks, state-owned enterprises? Do you know any members of the Governing Council who would answer? Some court proceedings are pending, but I don't think anything has really been decided. In view of the fact that the administrations had to report to the supervisory boards on all the details of what was happening inside and inside state-owned enterprises and within banks, the supervisory councils had all the information that went well and what went wrong and did not act — because they were not responsible to their owners! In the Supervisory Boards there are representatives of owners, we know this is the alphabet of corporate governance. Since a large part of the economy is still state-owned, this means that representatives of the supervisory councils have been directly delegated by various governments and political options, so we, New Slovenia - Christian Democrats say that we should depoliticise in the Slovenian economy. Politics has too many other tasks that it does not perform, but prefers to tap and even has its ATMs in state-owned companies and state-owned banks, that is a fact. The questions about the responsibility of the supervisory councils today nobody wants to put on the table, I repeat what I said earlier in the position of the parliamentary group, so they are looking for the sinful goats that are the easiest to find in the institution of administration. In conclusion, I may refer to the debate of my colleague Vrtovac, who spoke about forensic investigations in banks. See, when we adopted the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks, this matter may be mentioned again at the next item on the agenda, we wrote in Article 33 a very important provision. I guess that's what it was that was once, and now I can say the former, political parties, like Positive Slovenia, motivated or scared that they went to collect signatures for the referendum. And then the Constitutional Court, thank God, rationally decided that the referendum on this matter, that is to say, on this law, on the measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks cannot be. What does Article 33 say? The members of the Management Board of the Banks Claims Management Company shall be liable for any suspicion of criminal conduct by the members of the supervisory authorities of the banks and the supervisory authorities of the banks that they have become aware of in respect of the performance of their work, in particular when reviewing the credit cards referred to in Article 11, paragraph 9, of this Law, to notify the competent authorities immediately. Whether this is happening or not, we do not have information or we do not have accurate information. We would like taxpayers to be informed and, in some way, to be at least a little comforted and to understand better why, in fact, billions of people had to throw in bank holes. We need to find the drills for the bank holes. And here in Article 33 of the ZUKSB, mentioned in the Act, the Management Board of the Company for the Management of Bank Claims has the tool, the sufficient tool, and matters do not become obsolete so quickly, they are obsolete within an limitation period of four times the general statutes of limitation, as provided for by the law governing offences, and the law governing bond relations. As it is said, I will support these recommendations and I think that we need to step up the debate in order to find responsibility and, of course, here is our appeal to the judiciary, the law enforcement authorities, the investigating authorities to report whether they have human resources malnutrition or any other problem, but to give them a name and surname. And that's our only goal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u39	Ms Suzana Lepi Šimenko SDS has the floor to prepare Mrs Nada Brinovšek SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice to meet you again. I will start with Umarje's autumn forecast, where it is stated that the situation in the Slovenian banking system is gradually stabilised after the resolution of the banking system, but the volume of corporate loans is still decreasing. So, reducing the lending of the economy – this certainly was not the aim of the resolution of the banking system. We all know that a healthy banking system and lending the economy to the normal functioning of the economy is crucial. Of course, it is true that it must be based on sound foundations. This is mainly on, for the first time, lending true ideas, and for the second time, with appropriate insurance. In view of the situation in the banking system, however, it is more than obvious that banks in the past have been lending credits, I will say something to the best of my eyes and in many cases without adequate insurance. It is more than obvious that the banks did not have the same criteria for all lending. Most citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia could not receive credit without adequate insurance and at more favourable interest rates. While it is known that many individuals and a number of companies have received loans with appropriate friendly links under more favourable conditions and, more importantly, without adequate insurance. The situation in the banking sector is thus the result of the incompetence and irregular work of certain elites. We have been talking about the rehabilitation of the banking system for a long time, but we still have not found those responsible for the creation of the so-called bank hole – it is now not the most appropriate term, although it has often been used for a long time. We haven't found any responsible, not on the boards of banks or on the boards responsible. We still don't know who approved these unpaid loans. These loans, which were later transferred at a third book value to the Company for the Management of Bank Claims; credits transferred to taxpayers' burdens; and worse still, to our children and to generations after us. We're talking about 5 billion euros. The only right thing to do is to answer, for the first time, those who leased the contested loans, secondly, those who gave these contested loans, and thirdly, those who controlled it. However, with the proposed recommendations in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we want the Bank of Slovenia to provide us with more information on the causes of the so-called bank hole, on the effectiveness of the corporate management system of banks owned by the State and on how to deal with the consequences of the capital failure of business banks. That's the first recommendation. In the second recommendation, we want the Government of the National Assembly to be informed of the results of the stress tests of the European Central Bank, after which our largest bank, Nova Ljubljanska banka and Nova Kredittna banka Maribor continue to show capital mismatch. It would be good for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia to know where the reasons are for spending these EUR 5 billion, their money, our money, the rehabilitation of the banking system, and in particular who is responsible. It would also be good for banks to start lending, as has already been said, with the right ideas and appropriate insurance. Of course, I am in favour of these proposed recommendations and, as my colleague Horvat has already said, I also look forward to further discussions when we receive this information in the National Assembly. I am also pleased that today there is such broad support in the National Assembly for these recommendations, which in fact proves that the theme of the resolution of the banking system is still very current. In fact, we still haven't come to the end, the responsibility and the reasons why it happened. And it is right for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia to finally do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mrs. Nada Brinovšek has the floor. Get Mr. Jože Tanko ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u42	President, thank you for your word. Nice greetings to everyone else! Well, today in this Chamber it has been heard many times that Slovenia is the only European transit country that has been rehabilitated twice since its independence, at the expense of taxpayers. It was also said that this rehabilitation cost us more than 5 billion in 2013. Here I wonder where the protestors were at the time, where the unionists were, because they were from the pockets of taxpayers, from the pockets of teachers, doctors, nurses, the police, as well as from the ordinary worker, who with his few 500 euros, of course if he gets them, very much thinks about how he will spend them. When we heard from the opposite side of this assembly yesterday that we cannot compare the state budget with the family budget, we would ask, after some healthy farm of minds, whether you know how much this means, the 5 billion coming from the state budget, and what we could do with this money. I think that if it were not for recapitalisation, we would not be discussing today the abolition of funding for learning aid, the suspension of funding for music schools, the financing of municipalities that are the only generator of rural development. By the way, by comparison, one medium-sized municipality with 5,000 inhabitants spends about 4 million annually or around 4 million high budgets. 5 billion means 12 budgets of such a congregation. And what does all the congregation finance with this budget? From my institutions, such as kindergartens, material costs of school, libraries, cultural societies, sports companies, not to mention infrastructure at all. This money could also contribute to the development of young people's sciences, such money could help the unemployed or opening up new jobs or subsidising the purchase of homes for young families, fostering agriculture, tourism, crafts and so on. It seems to me that there is yet another way to compare the state budget to the family budget. I am afraid that additional funds will be needed again to cover the loss of the banking system, or perhaps I should believe the words of the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, that there will be no consequences for taxpayers and that the capital deficit will be covered by state profits. The fall of two banks in 100 percent of the country's property on stress tests is also the responsibility of the Bank of Slovenia, which, of course, no one notices and controls the Bank of Slovenia, because it does not work. In addition, the government has not yet adopted a public-profit public bank strategy, of course with the aim of returning at least partially paid tax money. This does not seem to be the worst for me, for it is probably not something to expect or be questioned at this point in time of profit. That is why I think and because of the small man I believe that it is still necessary to support these recommendations of our client today regarding the activities for the rehabilitation of the banking system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the word to prepare Dr. Franz the Crusader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, distinguished guests! Today we are discussing in particular the consequences of events that have taken place in previous years and have resulted in a billion-dollar recapitalisation of Slovenian banks. The problem is that today we don't even have an objective picture of what the real consequences are. Neither the former finance ministers nor the governors nor the bankers nor those who went to the National Assembly wanted to present this to the National Assembly, and we still do not have comprehensive information on the state of our banking system. Perhaps what has been demonstrated through the recapitalisation is not all because there are still many issues that are not transparent, even at closed meetings of the National Assembly, we have not received reliable data on this. If I recall correctly, there were lists of companies and their liabilities, which then came into a bank hole that caused a bank hole. But there is very little going on and very little information. I think that, above all, those who are the custodians of the banking system in the political work, this is what the Ministry of Finance calls, in the supervisory work if we take the Bank of Slovenia, and in the business work, the real banking system itself does not come up with the right information. I'm sure this fog, this hiding thing, is going to take years to cover it up. And given the way things are going, we'll probably never get a complete picture or even real data. Nor does what we have adopted in the last year or in recent months through the preparation and establishment of this fund, the mechanism for silent recapitalisation and the rehabilitation of the banking system help to bring about real causes and concrete real consequences. In 2013, we also set up an investigative commission in the National Assembly, which specifically or exclusively focused on the banking system, led by colleague Pogačnik. However, all those invited to this commission of inquiry, either on an open or closed basis, did not wish to provide any concrete information, no specific names. The purpose of this Commission of Inquiry was to establish political responsibility for the situation in the banking system. None of the invitees were able to say anything about it at all. One specific name! If you remember correctly, the Anti-Corruption Commission, President Goran Klemenčič of the day, has announced a very late report on the findings of the debt in the banking system. It was very spectacular. When he came as invited to the commission of inquiry, he did not want to talk about this report at all. He spoke in a public presentation of this report on the grey eminences of the banking system when we asked and when Members were asked who the grey eminences of the banking system were, there was not a single name to be said. Not a single name! And no, this is not how problems can be solved in this country. He can't! Many of these loans, many decisions have also been made through political intervention. This is probably what Mr Križanič, who was Minister of Finance for some time, knows. The fact that certain projects were submitted, we know the Members who were here at the time, even the Prime Minister, the former, Mr Pahor and others, boasted that he was trying to cover and finance a project in Ljubljana. From that project, at least two companies with about 200, 300 million holes came into this bank hole. But from there on, when this was said, and when this was investigated, not a single name was said. The current President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, who is very concerned with transparency, GRECA's ethical standards and recommendations, did not want to tell the Commission before the investigative committee any concrete information, not about names, not about the state, not about individual problems in particular parts of the banking system. I am just asking which recommendations from GRECA, which is always referred to, and also in the legislation that has now been transposed by the National Assembly, are prohibited. He has now drafted five laws of amendments in the field of justice. Key changes are the GRECA recommendations on transparency, the public, ethical standards in politics, in justice and elsewhere. When he was before the Commission, he did not even mention these ethical standards and recommendations by GRECA and referred to certain provisions of the laws, nor did he know the articles forbidding him to talk about what his Commission had found to prevent corruption. If the government were to send someone to this meeting today when we were talking about the banking system, the Minister of Justice should be sitting here. The Minister of Justice has been investigating this bank hole in the intestines as the President of the KPK. I think that this, such a delegation of the Government to a meeting of the National Assembly, when it sends people who have not done any more work on it, nor have they come to know or have not wanted to, but not those who control it in the poultry, then we cannot expect any concrete results from this debate, irrespective of the recommendations we will make, no concrete decisions and so on. What, though, is the problem of not knowing who made a political decision in the design of this bank hole? What's the problem? It's too much money, these are the lines that flowed, these are the oasis where it went, these are the projects that were created and shut down, just so that the matter was washed away and so on? These are the breakthroughs to the south-eastern markets, where I don't know what kind of pump they hired, bought companies or set up companies to control the market of the former Yugoslavia, and then quietly everything went out. Whether it was one bank, another bank, Telekom or someone else. This is all going under the cover of politics, obviously; obviously, because this policy, even though we asked it and asked it for information, is not capable of producing any specific political name. Even when we requested information, when we were forced to accept or force us, the National Assembly decided to recapitalise, and at that time we also had a meeting here at the governor's request, there was absolutely nothing concrete to say. This banking system is like a secret service, it works in a similar way: you can't know anything, you can't ask if they need anything, you have to make sure and give it without looking too much, if you ask anything, you're still characterized, but they control you long and long. It works exactly the same way. The fact that there are no good promises to change anything in the banking system is that more or less all those who had to check transparency, corruption and the rest of them on official duty were given one way or another to work in the banking system. Mr Praprotnik, Deputy Mr Klemenčič, quickly forgot the recommendations of GRECA, ethical standards and received a well-paid job in the country's biggest abyss – the New Ljubljana Bank. That's where the most money for settlement and recapitalisation went. His predecessor also has, I don't know, an advisory or audit contract with high-level items to review the files. If we're trying to turn this around, these people are now in the banking system just to keep nothing out. If, as the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, they have failed and intervened in this part and have published anything and have now received well-paid services there, then they are only there to block all things completely and prevent matters from becoming public. Here we are forced not to discuss for any reason the consequences of the bank hole – not all the consequences, but only those who are now about to be public and known in the global, not in detail. I think that in the banking sector, if we do not want to just talk and spend a few hours of time, it is necessary to adopt some changes in the legislation that, in certain situations, when anything needs to be done in this banking system, allow policy in one way or another to act: against persons, the Bank of Slovenia must have the power, if any, to exploit them. If Banka Slovenije does not have powers, they should be given if Banka Slovenije does not act, but the management of Banka Slovenije should be treated equally as an executive policy. However, whenever such problems that have arisen, we have also initiated interpolation against responsible persons, these interpolations have always been covered as if there were nothing as if everything were in the best order. I think that much more needs to be done than to deal with any property in or close to Triglav National Park to those who make the actual image or situation in Slovenia, which is the banking system. In this area, it is not known that the State Prosecutor's Office, the investigating authorities, would team any interdisciplinary or multidisciplinary group that would go into the research of the banking system. I don't know! Even if it is, it runs in the utmost secrecy – but it is known that small things are dealt with by various groups that investigate and do such things in a spectacle from some business, when someone may have sold for a little more than they bought, which is usually that those who are engaged in shopping or who have done so make an effort to sell for more than they have bought. But in this part where it comes to enormous inserts, when it comes to enormous burdens of future generations, it all goes somehow under the wing, under some dark deck, and it's not visible and it doesn't hear anything at all. That for 5 billion recapitalisation there is no one in this country who has made one single mistake is a problem. No person is officially reported to have anything happened during this self-sustainment period. I know the Governor has told me, and he has also answered my question about some of the procedures being initiated, including the Government, but it is not written against whom. Not one of those responsible, the director of any bank, is on that list, just any lower office. We can assume that because no names are spoken of in this part. Today we have this debate about the situation in the banking system and about these things, and the question is, do we have all the data? There's something else that might surprise us. These developments with the Bank of Celje are just one problem. We have a bank that we don't have in our surveillance system. It's a SID bank. What's going to happen here? On this basis too, will there be any similar surprise to those of our great banks? I think that's very likely, because we don't hope for any reason, to open files, to look at faces and to do things, as they should in a similar or normal system where the principle of responsibility applies. We are extremely effective in small matters, and in these capital matters, which are why we all have problems – present, former and future generations – things are not happening and are not being controlled. And if possible, the information is also hidden, even in such a way that those who should report on it refer to some banking secrets, tax secrets and similar matters. For example, allowing someone, within the banking system, to gain illegal property benefits, is unlikely to be bank secrecy. This may be bank secrecy only if this person wants to protect himself and this transaction that has gone through this way. It can't be another bank secret. Criminal acts can't be a bank secret. I think these things are going to have to be opened up sooner or later. Also, those who have cooperated in one way or another or who cooperate when they make it impossible for the public to know the information should simply be called to account. Even those who are now likely to know these things when they know that they have such status should be treated in one way or another. Even if necessary, in the National Assembly. Not only are these personal matters important when they are referred to as functions through the procedure required by law, whether it be political or other functions. This should also be addressed where the persons we appoint do not carry out their tasks in accordance with expectations, in accordance with legislation, in accordance with the standards in force. As long as we don't clean these things up at this level, we can always talk about additional surprises, additional resources, extra burdens and so on and so forth. If the former Minister of Finance was able to put two banks that had bankrupted 200 million in the banking system some month or two before bankruptcy, then this was either a professional error or a conscious decision. It's probably been decided somewhere. And no one gets hurt, no one asks why it happened, then it's a big problem! We can't just afford to cover this kind of stupidity with government money and hired money because of easy access to bank resources or cheap credit. The bankruptcyist must also go bankrupt in some way, not by the State providing him with the money to pay it all off, all of it is exhausted, the rewards are distributed, and then you put it on public debt. This is probably not a correct and fair way to solve problems in the banking system. Until we know how to handle these things responsibly, we will give the names, surnames and quotas that these people have thus far spent, until then, these debates and what is, are more fairy tales than anything else. I think that the Bank of Slovenia, the Ministry of Finance and someone else should make sure that the public is properly informed about all the things that are going on in the banking system, because that is what we are paying for. This is not paid by bankers, it is not paid by the presidents of the boards, it is not paid by the members of the supervisory boards, but by the citizens – all their standards and all their mistakes. I think it should be possible, if this is not possible, to allow things to be settled, or, above all, in such a way that those who have done something take responsibility and not to share it with just two million who have not been there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The last of the submitted Members and Members is Dr. Franz the Crusader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u46	High choir! I would like to draw attention to some things in the debate, first of all as an association in the previous debate. Let's say a very large, the biggest debtor was Bell 1, Bell 2. And now, whoever granted him credit, on what basis he believed – but these funds have also given him substantial assets to the flag, to the insurance and this property is now transferred to this bad bank, as we call it, after a very large write-off, we will have it in the next item, and it is on some sort of menu, if I say with a parable, a cheap one will be sold out. We've already seen the case of Helios here. Now they're "ironing" maybe some analyst at a bank who signed completely without expectations that credit relations could be broken up in this way. Things are complex, and if the culprits are already being sought, this needs to be done very carefully and within the rule of law, it is said, to think about and give to the one who will also be able to defend himself. What I wanted to say in my discussion – and Mr Horvat has already stressed this – is that at the time of Slovenia's rapid indebtedness from 2004 to 2008, Slovenia began to become a structurally dependent economy. This was shown by an external debt that grew rapidly, gross external and net external. We used to be a net creditor, we became a net debtor to the state. This was indicated by the deficit in the external trade exchange and this was indicated by the deficit in the current balance of payments account. The Pahor government has managed to reverse this by, of course, European-led development policy measures, according to European standards. Thus, the fabric of the real economy has not been affected to the extent that we actually become an economy like Greece now. We are completely incomparable. Our foundations are completely different from that of Greece, for example, which is a structurally dependent economy. From here on, this growth in exports and hence this recovery of economic growth, which is based on the successful export results created by comparative knowledge-based advantages, the introduction of new technologies and new approaches, new market methods. What has happened is essentially due to the successful resilience of the economy and to successful development policies. Another time. I would like to point out that almost all countries have implemented rehabilitation or recapitalisation, deposits and various forms of assistance to banks, and to a large extent, stronger in more than 10% of GDP. [[Incomprehensible]] Only with this irrational recapitalisation in 2013 did we become a flagmaker, but otherwise we entered, the country increased its shares, a little over 400 million were spent on these recapitalisations in 2010, 250 million we wanted to spend already in 2009 and we were not allowed to use it under state aid rules. In fact, the Bank of Slovenia had to request a recapitalisation, only then could the State enter. She waited for the privates to go in with her, being partners, like in the Ljubljana Bank, but they didn't, and then she went in full. Then we also prepared the money for the next recapitalisation carried out by my successor with the funds that were prepared in the budget for this purpose and could not be used until the state requested it. If there had not been an amendment to the regulation, which required banks to limit credit activity, there would not have been such large unsecured claims. Now the situation is that we have banks strongly recapitalized and that they are trying or that some structure, or whatever you say, is trying to sell them very quickly. Only in the case of NKBM can we observe that the country – according to my information, which is informal – has invested around €850 million, has taken bad claims to a bad bank and is now selling this for €200 million. This is the difference – see, I am joining Mr Tank here – in the case of all the affairs where someone has now created some income, someone will take 600 million euros here. Do you know how much that is? This is the value of the highway from Ljubljana to Trebnje after the Slovenian efficiency of building motorways, which is 12 million euros per kilometer. So we're going to have TES 6, this is the Slovenian way. We just don't know how to do this, 12 million euros a kilometer with everything, with the purchase of land, someone will take away one of these months' worth of this highway. [[..]] You can't imagine that! Do you understand? Imagine. I would end up hoping that the rule of law in Slovenia will work, but this hope, of course, points to the conclusion that the equity shares, which have been released in banks, will be based on these unusual stress tests, and more so that these equity shares will be returned. And there will be new responsibilities for the state budget and new stresses for this budget. Since I still have a minute, 53 seconds of time, stress tests have to be said that the methodology has changed in the middle and was untransparent and indiscreet and ultimately presented as Oliver Wyman's private property, which he carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u47	It's a replica. Here you go, proposer. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u48	Dear President, thank you for your word! I think that today's debate has gone in the right direction, especially on the consequences, and finally the causes have been exposed. I am confident, however, that if we do not address these consequences, we can either expect this trend to continue in a relatively short time or in the medium term, namely that we will be taxpayers of bank gambling and that these recapitalisations will continue indefinitely. Dear Governor, distinguished Secretary of State! I was surprised to see how Banka Slovenije shared the time for today. Today we are talking mainly about matters concerning Banka Slovenije and Banka Slovenije took only five minutes to discuss. The government has an hour. I think that most of the questions here today relate to the representatives of the Bank of Slovenia, and I politely ask if you can agree with each other that the Government will give up part of the time to the Bank of Slovenia. I think that, by means of the rules of procedure, with some agreement that, because I am sure, the honourable Governor, within five minutes, you cannot answer all the questions raised by Members and Members and the proposaler. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The time for discussion was set at the College of the National Assembly, so that [[…]] Here you go, mag. It's a cakemaker.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u50	Dear President! As far as I can tell, this is what the College really sets out, but it's probably on the proposal of those who are invited. Mr President, I have not asked you to do this, but I have asked the representative of the Ministry of Finance, the Secretary of State and the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia to agree. I think that this proposal will be taken into account, because today's purpose is to get some answers, not to be bureaucratic about this meeting that you started.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Here you are, Dr. Boštjan Jazbec, Governor of the Bank of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u52	Thank you very much. I must have misunderstood the invitation to this debate. In fact, it is clear from the recommendation already discussed on the parent committee that we will speak at today's assembly in the National Assembly or you will decide on a recommendation on which the Bank of Slovenia should respond within 30 days and prepare comprehensive information on which some concerns have been expressed, whether the Bank of Slovenia will be able to do so in the most objective manner possible. That is why I understood that today's debate is aimed at further clarifying the Bank of Slovenia's demands to the additional concerns and debates that we have heard today and to which we will write them down within 30 days, as we will understand from the recommendation, as well. If I have misunderstood, I apologize, but I think it is right that you at least give us the opportunity to take all the criticisms and concerns about the role of the Bank of Slovenia as regulator, supervisor, to prepare ourselves for these matters, and I hope that the debate will be when the recommendation is presented that responds to these concerns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The text is by the representative of the Government, Secretary of State Mr. Method Dragonja.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Your Honor! In fact, the initiative which was presented by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group is aimed at obtaining all the expressed wishes after how the talks should be prepared and how all aspects of past operations and responsibilities to create a problem in the banking system should be clarified as much as possible and, in particular, the measures being taken to ensure the stability of the banking system and to prevent the recurrence of situations that would lead to the need for any form of intervention by the State. However, bearing in mind that these answers will be prepared specifically for the meeting of the National Assembly, which will discuss this once again, I would like to make some clarification in the debate of both Members and Members and the views of the groups of Members. This will then be an integral part of the material to be submitted for consideration, which is required today. I would like to point out that the Government is looking at the issue of the banking system mainly systematically. It is said to be comprehensive; how the banking system works, whether it achieves macroeconomic objectives and how the risks that occur in the banking system and in the financial intermediary are properly managed. The basic position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that, with all the measures implemented, the stability of the banking system was ensured primarily on the basis of the measures already taken by the previous governments and to a large extent also implemented, and partly by the current coalition or government, which has taken some additional steps. All these measures are based on the law to create stability in the banking system and the results achieved are recognised by all institutions that supervise or monitor Slovenia's social, social and economic progress. The reports of the European Commission and the European Central Bank explicitly stress that significant progress has been made on the stability of the banking system, as well as on the International Monetary Fund. The most basic criterion for the stability of the banking system, however, is the growth of deposits in banks. The increase in deposits in banks was positive following the measures implemented, especially after the most critical moment when the major banking crisis occurred in Cyprus and when deposits of both natural persons and legal persons fell in the short term. On the basis of a number of measures implemented, deposits have re-created confidence and the population and the economy and are rising. In fact, this is the basic indicator that, in addition to the more sophisticated assessments given by institutions and experts, we need to be constantly monitored. It is clear, however, that we must not idealise the situation that risks remain in the financial system and that these risks are constantly being fought or taken to reduce these risks. These risks are mainly related to the ability of banks to restore credit activity, which is very important for economic growth and the supervision of banks and the banking system to ensure the appropriate quality of their placements. This has also worked hard and is improving during this period. The stress tests themselves, which have led to the fact that this initiative has actually triggered the problem to be highlighted in particular from this point of view, in order to assess the further risks that are present in the banking system. At the outset, I think it has been quite clear that the credibility of stress tests is too disproportionate to the assessment of the reliability of assumptions that were essential for these stress tests to be carried out. I think we can all be happy that Slovenia has proved that it is not in this negative scenario, but that it has exceeded the expectations of all those who have prepared forecasts of further economic dynamics in Slovenia. An important part of the topic, which has been exposed here by all parliamentary groups, is the responsibility for poor credit and the sanctioning of these responsibilities. The operation of transferring bad loans to a bad bank revealed this responsibility to a large extent. All the bad loans transferred to a bad bank are now in the field of public accessibility, with names and surnames published on the website of the Company for the Management of Bank Claims or Bad Bank. So it's possible for anyone to look at them. Anyone can see which companies or which borrowers are the ones that drilled the biggest bank hole and in which segments of the economy are left. Thus, when this information is made publicly available, a large part of transparency or at least the possibility of the public being made aware of it is guaranteed. However, that is not all yet, some of the things are probably hidden and in this part the government also agrees that it is necessary to create the conditions for any bad practices that existed in banking to be eliminated and to reduce risks in the banking system through this. In particular, it is worth noting that the bad practice in the Slovenian banks, which have received measures to ensure stability, is also largely due to the poor practice of some foreign banks operating on the Slovenian market, some of which are also in our immediate vicinity, not only have they received measures to remedy them – one, especially those that have been the worst example of this practice, is now practically in liquidation or in controlled closure. In fact, in a broader assessment of the dynamics, which has been largely due to the fact that since Slovenia's entry into the euro zone and then to the beginning of the global financial crisis and the culmination of the problem of bad credits in banks, we have also been partially confronted with unfair competition and poor business practices by those who have sought their market share in our economic space at that time and have obtained this market share in very passive ways. The entire Slovenian public, in particular the Government, is particularly aware that the funds invested in measures to ensure the stability of banks are extremely large, that they represent a great denial in a whole range of other segments of society and that this public debt also burdens future generations. That is why stability in the banking system needs to be further ensured. If we look at a slightly wider picture of how much Slovenia has been specifically faced with this problem compared to other countries in the European area. We can say, not to justify these banks now, that we are somehow comparable to what extent of resources relative, if measured by the share of gross social product, other European countries have committed themselves. Slovenia earmarked for measures to ensure the stability of banks from 2008 to the end of last year, that is to say in this six-year period, 8.7% of its GDP, something above the European average, but not significantly. For example, we have countries like Spain and Portugal where these percentages for Spain were 5.9% of GDP, Portugal 4.6, Denmark 4.3. Our 8.7 is worse than these; therefore, we have been, as far as risks are concerned, higher than these countries, including parts of the Mediterranean countries, and other countries where they had, I would say, macro-national economic costs associated with the resolution of the banking system are significantly higher. For example, Cyprus, Ireland, which had to devote as much as 35% of GDP to stabilise its banking system and Greece to 22.4. It is said that there is always a need to compare in the international environment and the banking crisis and the need for countries to intervene were not only present in Slovenia but were present throughout the European environment. Above all, what is most crucial is what the Government, together with other economic policy holders, is to ensure the stability of the banking system in the future so that we can look ahead. The banks that receive the measures are now state-owned, and we have a specific strategy under the country's capital investment management strategy for the banking sector, which is specifically focused on state-owned banks and will also be discussed in a broader way. The banks receiving the measures must follow the very sharp commitments and recovery programmes linked to the state aid programmes granted. The commitments made by both these banks and the Republic of Slovenia are currently being monitored by the specific auditors, the so-called monitoring of trustees, who review the implementation of all commitments; however, the commitments are mainly linked to increasing revenues, increasing efficiency, cost-effectiveness, lowering costs, compensation for market shares and reducing the share of bad credits. Here the banks are set very, I would say, strict targets related to programmes for granting state aid. These programmes are currently being monitored by independent auditors and report to the European Commission, and for the time being, I must say that there are no major deviations or warnings by these specific auditors that the banks receiving the measures do not implement their obligations following the commitments made. In this direction, there is also a very difficult task for us to strengthen or improve corporate governance in these banks, because the tasks which the State has now received, given that it has become the owner of banks, must be carried out during this transitional period until the majority of banks that have received the measures are privatised or will not receive new strategic owners who will take over the management functions. This is how management is carried out under the mechanisms provided for by the Slovenian State Holding Act, in addition to all other activities which have the nature of both regulatory activities carried out by the monetary authority, the Bank of Slovenia and the control activities carried out by the Bank of Slovenia. We are particularly concerned about this in the area of corporate governance, so that we can significantly improve actual practices in bank management, which is a process that will take some time. In any case, we want to ensure that the banks' objectives, which are set, will follow that they will fulfil their commitments and that, in some robust and good condition, they will then be able to obtain new owners who will continue to develop them at a time when the state decides that it is appropriate to sell them and that, to a certain extent, the funds invested in the rehabilitation of banks can be recovered. Even so, the operation must also be assessed by ensuring, above all, that depositor deposits in the banking system have been preserved. Without this being a first priority, national economic costs would probably be even greater and a comprehensive assessment of the measures taken to ensure the stability of banks can only be made in a few years. All that we all need to ensure is to reduce the risks in the banking system and to ensure its effective functioning, and all of these responsibilities are fully aware and acted in this direction, that these objectives are achieved and that the commitments made in these processes will also be fulfilled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Magi's proposal. Marko Pogačnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u56	Dear President, thank you for your word! On behalf of the proposaler of the Slovenian Democratic Party, I would like to reiterate once again that we welcome this favour, so that in fact most Members and Members will support these proposals. Of course, this is tax money, and I am sure that when this meeting comes in connection with these recommendations, I think that, both by the Government and by Banka Slovenije, a number of answers will have to be given, which will clarify the situation in detail, and above all what will be going on now. For me, one of the key questions is whether taxpayers can ever be expected to get these funds invested in the banking system back in some way. This seems to me to be one of the very important questions and I expect some kind of answer. The Secretary of State made a comparison of how much the rehabilitation of banking systems in some way cost the other European countries and how much Slovenia. I am convinced that this amount, as stated by the Secretary of State for Slovenia, will be significantly higher and that it is significantly higher at a given time. Nevertheless, it must be said that we always and always rehabilitate our banks, state-owned when the state already owns those banks. These cases were in other European countries, when the state let itself down, I would say, private banks, because they were aware of the situation in the market, but the country invested money, somehow resolved the banking system and got a share in these banks, did not just give money. I will always highlight the case of Commerzbank, when, with the state rescue, the German state went to rescue this bank, but Commerzbank returned all these funds within one year with interest from the German state. That's the difference. And in this we always stress why it would be worthwhile to make this privatisation of the Slovenian banking system. I am confident and confident in the Slovenian Democratic Party, if the privatisation programme of 2001 followed, and that both the Nova Ljubljanska Bank and the Nova Kreditna Bank would be privatised, that the effect and impact on taxpayers in the further recovery would be significantly reduced and that private owners should probably contribute to the rehabilitation themselves. However, we know who is responsible for why this privatisation did not take place and it is also clear from the Bank of Slovenia that the privatisation of 2001 was halted by politics. Whoever was in power in 2001, I think it's clear. And that should take some responsibility. I think that there are still a number of questions that have not been answered, and I am sure that everyone in the National Assembly, and especially the taxpayers, expects us to get answers to these questions, which have been raised today by both the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and, above all, by the regulator. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we estimate that the current responsibility here for the situation and, in particular, for the continuation of events, is also borne by the Bank of Slovenia. Regardless of everything, the Honourable Governor, I agree with this part of the answer that you have given me about your five minutes and all that you just need for more time and that you have come to this debate today with this conviction that you will then come with some answers to our questions today in these recommendations, which I hope will be voted in the National Assembly. But I would still take this opportunity to have you here today and given that the next item is linked to the Bank Claims Management Company, if you can provide me with an answer regarding the cooperation of Probank and the Bank Claims Management Society, if possible. If it weren't for these, I'd be interested at this point in time to see how Probank's status is recorded in the register. I think that the three-hour debate was effective, and once again as a proposal, I would like to thank all my colleagues and colleagues who will be tomorrow, at least that is how your promise was made today, and to support our recommendations from the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u57	Thank you very much. So, all the applicants you wanted to do it, you got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. If they also wish to discuss the representative of the proposed magi. Marko Pogačnik, representative of the Government of Dragon Methods or Governor Dr. Boštjan Jazbec, please apply with a raise of hands. Dr. Bostian Jazbec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u58	On the question of the operation of both banks in the liquidation of Probank and Factor Bank. Both banks are still banks licensed to conduct banking transactions by the end of 2016, such as the commitment to grant the State aid necessary to enable both banks to enter into the liquidation control process. Both banks have an exclusive administration and report directly to the Council of the Bank of Slovenia on all business matters. With regard to the question whether Probank has provided services to the Bank's Claims Management Company, I must state that: yes, the Bank of the Bank's Claims Management Company manages the information system and business monitoring services required for the sound operation of the Claims Management Company, which should otherwise have purchased and ordered these services on the market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u59	Thank you very much. So I conclude the general debate. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposed to the National Assembly a further proposal for a decision which did not include amendments. On Friday, 30 January, in the framework of the votes, we will decide on the updated proposal for a decision, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I'm putting an end to the 15th item of the agenda. We're moving to 14. On the day-to-day basis, this is to the contrary the proposal recommended in connection with the management of the state-owned assets in the Teryatev Bank Management Company, D.D. The proposal for a recommendation was submitted to the assembly by a group of 18 Members and Members, with Mr Jozet Tank, first signed. With regard to this proposal, the Group of 18 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed magi. Mark Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u60	Dear President, thank you for the floor, distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! The Slovenian Democratic Party has made three recommendations concerning the management of State assets in the Banks Claims Management Company, namely the first recommendation: The National Assembly recommends to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, within 30 days, to prepare and provide information on the methodology for calculating the value of assets or assets relating to the Company for the Management of Claims of Banks, Shareholders, Business Banks and to assess the appropriateness of such a method. Second recommendation: The National Assembly recommends that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia take note of the updated annual report of the Company for the Management of Claims of Banks, a Shareholder Company, for 2013 within 8 days of receipt of this report from the Company for the Management of Claims of Banks. Third recommendation: The National Assembly recommends that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia familiarise it with the business and financial plan of the Company for the Management of Bank Claims for 2015 within 8 days of receipt of this plan. We were pleased with the fact that these recommendations dealt with the home labour body, namely the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, and that these recommendations were also unanimously voted and supported by this Committee. I also expect, as in the recommendations concerning the Bank of Slovenia and the banking system, that we will also be supported here by Members and Members of Parliament in these recommendations and that these recommendations will be supported by the National Assembly. The reasons why the Slovenian Democratic Party decided to make recommendations would be presented below. At a certain point in time, we are a little concerned about the operation of the Banks Claims Management Company. In particular, with regard to certain information that appears in the media and, in particular, with regard to the 2013 annual report prepared by this company, because we have already given a series of warnings and a series of readings to the Commission for the supervision of public finances, in this respect that this report is insufficient for us and that certain important data that we expect from the National Assembly, as taxpayers, is not adequately disclosed. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is also this annual report, which it has discussed – then here may be a game of words – whether it has requested the addition of this report to the Company for the Management of Bank Claims or whether it has rejected it. I think it is very important here that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has also asked the Bank's Claims Management Company to complete this annual report. It is important for the Slovenian Democratic Party to take note of this updated annual report. In view of the fact that it is now 2015 and that this event, when the Government requested the completion of the annual report, has been over for several months now, I expect the Banks Management Company to fulfil the task also assigned by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and that this updated annual report will come as soon as possible into the procedure of the National Assembly. What are the other issues that are important to the Slovenian Democratic Party? The methods of transferring these claims from banks to the Banking Company, in particular the methodology, when, at what times these claims are transferred and who is responsible for these transfers. We were surprised when we read the annual report of the Banks Claims Management Company, that the company's management or the professional co-workers found that the transfer of these claims from banks to the Banks Claims Management Company was inconsistent and that they were doing their own evaluation and that there was a substantial deviation in the positive direction or in the negative direction. We're not talking about thousands of euros here, we're talking about millions of discounts. I'm sure there's more to explain here. We also propose that the National Assembly be informed of the business and financial plan of the Company for Bank Claims Management for 2015. I think that this is a very important document and that society should already have such a business-financial plan. I think it's right that the National Assembly is also familiar with the business and financial plan. I think there was a lot of tax money invested here, which is due to the recovery of more than €5 billion. The Slovenian Democratic Party is absolutely interested in how these claims will manage what procedures will be like and, in particular, whether taxpayers can be expected to recover from this title. As previously said, information in the media surprised us that at such high management costs the Bank Management Company decided to use Probank services in some of its services. In the Slovenian Democratic Party at the time, we were proposing this Law on the Management of Bank Claims, mainly because banks manage their bad claims not alone, but to manage them outside, which is why this company was established. On the one hand, we talked earlier about forced liquidation or the controlled liquidation of Probanka, which means Probanka is also one of the banks that caused these problems. And now this bank, which's been in trouble, is going to provide services to the Bank's Claims Management Company! I think that the need has been explained here, both in the 2013 annual report, mainly by the costs of services, which are at least too high for me personally. These costs of services have been very poorly explained. Finally, the Company for the Management of Bank Claims is 100 % owned by the State, this is tax money and we need to get to know it. I regret that today there is no representative of the Bank Claims Management Company who could give the appropriate answers when the debate develops, because I am sure that a number of Members or Members would have any question about the management of the Bank Claims Management Company. Respected and respected! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we expect that tomorrow, when the vote on these recommendations that we have proposed will experience support and will be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The proposal for a recommendation was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of Mrs Urska Ban.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u62	President, thank you for your word. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is held at its 4th session. 1. 2015 As a parent working body, the proposal for a recommendation concerning the management of state assets in the Company for the enforcement of bank claims submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank. The Committee received a written opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service and an opinion from the Government. Within the time limit set, the amendments to the proposal for a recommendation were tabled by the SDS Group of Members to the preamble to paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 and to the title of the proposal for this recommendation. Proposals for amendments to the Committee were submitted to the members and members of the Committee as working material, namely paragraphs 2 and 3 of the Proposal for a Recommendation on which the Committee voted and adopted them. The initial supplementary explanation to the Proposal for a Recommendation was made by a member of the Committee and a Member of the SDS Group Marko Pogačnik, who presented the key reasons for the submission of the Proposal for a Recommendation to the National Assembly and the content of the proposed solutions. The representative of the Government further explained the transfer of funds to the banks in which measures under the law were carried out to the DUTB and where State aid was involved, since the funds were not transferred at their market value but at long-term economic value. The difference between the value of the assets and the market value of the assets constitutes State aid, since the bank could not have obtained this difference if the assets were sold on the market at the time of the transfer. In the case of previous implementations to the DUTB, the assessment of risk positions by the European Commission considered that the methodology provided for in the Regulation was not conservative enough or that the estimated values exceeded long-term economic value. The differences are mainly due to the assessment of cash flows from insurance. In the implementation of stability measures, the transfer value only affected the ratio of how much was provided by the State guarantee and how much directly with cash or real deposits in the recapitalisation of banks. Therefore, the separation of the transfer value did not affect the amount of the assets that the State had to provide to the banks. It follows from the above that the review of the quality of the bank's assets in 2013 and the overall assessment of the bank's operations in 2014 were based on strict macroeconomic assumptions. The purpose of the strict assumptions was to ensure the robustness of the banking system and thus reduce the likelihood of possible further recapitalisation of banks by public means. In this way, the road to reducing macroeconomic imbalances in the future continues. In the debate, some members of the Committee drew attention to the wrong assumptions of the transmission value assessors, since these were not based on the assumptions of economic growth, which is now a fact, but on negative economic growth. On the other hand, there is still a so-called credit crunch, which means that bank recovery is not reflected in the real sector maintained by the export part of the economy. In particular, public debt will have a negative impact on economic growth in the bank's recovery. In its reply, the representative of the Government pointed out that the rehabilitation of banks through DUTB should be seen in a broader context within the framework of legal solutions for stabilisation measures and, in particular, in the long term, when assessing the effects of these measures. Following a discussion under the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered and adopted two proposals for amendments to the Committee. The Committee considered and adopted the amendments tabled by the SDS Group to the preamble to point 1 and to the title of the Proposal for a Recommendation. However, the amendments to paragraphs 2 and 3 of the Proposal for a Recommendation have become irrelevant. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all parts of the act and adopted them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u63	Thank you very much. For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to Mr Method Dragonji, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u64	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Government does not oppose the recommendation to prepare and provide to the National Assembly information on the methodology for calculating the value of assets or assets transferred to a bad bank from business banks, and to provide an assessment of the appropriateness of such a valuation method, information on the methodology for calculating the value of such assets has been practically transmitted to the National Assembly as an annex to the opinion on the preparation of these reports. With regard to the second recommendation that the Government inform the National Assembly of the 2013 DUTB annual report, it is to be informed that it will forward the 2013 completed report to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia within eight days. This 2013 report has already been discussed by the Government in October 2014, but has not been confirmed by it, has been commissioned by the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology and the Ministry of Justice to send a request to supplement this report. This request was forwarded, the DURB has already completed this report, forwarded it for review, but then requested that the clarifications be included in the annual report's records, that the annual report be reaudited and such an updated annual report will be submitted to the Government in early February. As we say, it will then be transmitted in eight days to the National Assembly. With regard to the third recommendation that the Group of Members and Members propose to inform the Government of the National Assembly on the business and financial plan of the bad bank, we report that this business plan will be submitted to the National Assembly together with a new law on measures to ensure the stability of banks, which the Government will submit to the legislative procedure in the first quarter of this year. This will explain the reasons why the law needs to be amended, and then the business-financial plan, which will also be plastically visible, why the law needs to be supplemented in individual parts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u66	Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr Dragonja, Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The recommendations concerning the management of State assets in the Company for the Management of Claims of Banks, Shareholders' Company also address the issue of banking and, in addition, in these recommendations, members of the coalition and opposition in the treatment of the parental work committee have been consolidated and the recommendations have been supported. This is certainly a good sign for the Slovenian public and the Slovenian taxpayers. Members of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats are forecasting support for recommendations regarding the management of state assets in the Company for the Management of Bank Claims. There are several reasons, there are many reasons, but two are certainly the following: that is, the Court of Auditors found irregularities at the DUTB in the financial year 2013, Mr Štefanec, KPK, otherwise says that he did not find corrupt acts, but found quite a few corrupt risks. With such information available to the Slovenian public, the citizen certainly cannot be of good will. The essential content of the recommendations interferes with the area of valuation of claims transferred from State banks, NLB and New KBM to the so-called bad bank or the official company for the management of bank claims. Indeed, the valuation of the transferred claims by both state banks to the bad bank is not a uniform opinion on what their real value is. The claims were transferred at long-term economic value, as explained by the State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance at the meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, and this is not necessarily the same market or fair value. However, the bank’s claim management company insists on the so-called fair value, i.e. the value that can be recovered for the individual claim and assessed by the financial analysts engaged by the Bank’s Claims Management Company. This fair or market value is significantly lower than the carrying value. From NLB and NKBM, claims totalling EUR 3.3 billion were transferred to DUTB and paid by the Bank Management Company EUR 1.1 billion in government bonds. On average, therefore, the claim transferred is worth about one third of their nominal value. Following the re-evaluation of these claims ordered by DUTB, the so-called fair value of these claims is lower by more than €92 million and is therefore almost 10% lower than the transfer value. The explanation of the methodology for assessing claims is therefore one of the recommendations that we are discussing today. We believe that the recommendations need to be made in order for the National Assembly to know the actual state of the transfer of claims, as this is a matter of assessment of the performance of the Banking Company. We know that many other Member States of the European Union have also saved the banking system through so-called bad banks. We are therefore also interested in what methodology other Member States of the European Union have used in transferring claims to a bad bank and whether the methodology used was comparable or similar to that used in other countries. And at the end of New Slovenia - Christian Democrats are concerned about media reports on the suspicious irregularities and uneconomic management of this company, as it is the handling of tax money. We therefore support the debate on this topic, which will clarify and clarify a number of issues and suggestions on the operation of the Banks Claims Management Company, what is the human resources and payroll policy in this company, how they justify enormously high costs for consulting under concluded advisory contracts, and, last but not least, the management plan of the Company for the Management of Bank Claims on Sale Procedures or the restructuring of individual transferred claims. In this part too, it would be useful to obtain comparable data on the operating costs of a bad bank in other countries, at least for the costs of employees and advisory contracts concluded. We are here, colleagues and colleagues, to seek responsibility for possible irregularities on behalf of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and this responsibility with names and surnames.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mag. Alenka Bratušek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Alliance Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u68	Your Honor! Have a nice hello to everyone again. The Finance Committee has already held a debate on the proposal for recommendations on the management of state assets in the so-called bad bank. If I am not mistaken, we have accepted all the recommendations unanimously: opposition and coalition Members. Of course, this is a clear signal that we are all aware together of how important the Banks Claims Management Company is and that the successful functioning of this institution is in our common interest. During the last few weeks, DUB has been mentioned several times. Thus, on the Commission for the supervision of public finances, which was, by the way, on 5 November 2014, said almost three months ago, we were able to hear the reasons why the Government had not adopted the annual report on the operation of this company. The representative of the Government then explained to us that although the Government did not reject the report, it requested some additional clarifications, in particular clarifications relating to certain types of expenditure, such as additional clarifications, relating to the establishment of all the mechanisms that ensure transparency of business, the legality of business and compliance with all the legal provisions, and not least explained about certain extremely high costs, in particular the advisory nature. To this day, the MPs of the National Assembly have not been familiar with any additions. As it can be concluded, and before that, the Secretary of State has also said that the Government, as the DUMB Assembly, has not yet been informed of the requested additions. Thus, Members have also not been familiar with the findings of the KPK, which, as is known, has revealed some irregularities in the functioning of the Banks Claims Management Company. So obviously we are all aware that DUB is one of the key members in the economic recovery chain, and it is the duty of all of us that if irregularities happen, we will eliminate them as soon as possible. Of course, we must first identify them, recognize them, so that they may be required to be removed. In the Alliance, we feel that transparency in the functioning of the DUTB is crucial, but we do not think that the public should be informed of any individual decision. However, the annual report is of paramount importance, since the non-acceptance of the report may or may not also mean a lack of confidence in the management of the DUTB. Many uncertainties will be resolved as soon as the company's business and financial plan is adopted. The obligation to adopt such a document is also based on legal standards and, above all, on responsible corporate governance. We understand that the adoption of the business-financial plan should be completed by transfers of claims from banks and therefore the requirement that the National Assembly be made aware of its contents within eight days of the government hearing is more than reasonable. In the Alliance, we will once again support the proposal for recommendations. In addition to the resolution of the banking system, the Bank Claims Management Company also aims to restructure companies. And we're back to square one. Dutb is one of the key members of the economic recovery chain, so I am sure that we will talk about the work of this institution in the National Assembly many times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Zorman will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Mir Cerar Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u70	Dear Presidents, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, Members! The recommendation on the management of State assets in the Company for the Management of Bank Claims or the Shorter DUTB, known more than the bad bank submitted by the SDS party, has already been supported by the SMC Group on the parent committee. In the first point of the decision, the National Assembly requires the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to prepare and transmit within 30 days information on the methodology for calculating the value of assets or assets transferred to the Company for the Management of Banks Claims from Business Banks and to assess the appropriateness of such valuation. While this has already been explained by the Government at the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy itself, we have no reservations in the SMC Group that the Government will not once again prepare any more detailed information than already provided. In the second point of the decision, the National Assembly proposes that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia take note of the updated annual report of the Company for Bank Claims Management for 2013 within eight days of the hearing in the Government. The proposed decision makes sense. At the meeting on 24 September 2014, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy discussed the 2013 DUTB unaudited report. The DUTB then prepared a revised report for 2013 and was not confirmed by the Government at its meeting on 29 October. The meeting was followed by a meeting of representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Company for Bank Claims Management, where the Government requested DUTB to complete the annual report with very detailed instructions. Since the Parliamentary Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy does not have the power to reject the DUTB reports and has only become aware of it at its September meeting, it is certainly necessary to re-acquaint the Committee with the supplementary DUTB annual report for 2013 and, therefore, in the SMC Group, we also agree with the content of this Article. In the third point of the decision, the National Assembly proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to familiarise it with the DUTB business and financial plan for 2015 within eight days of consideration by the Government. In the SMC Group we closely monitor the work of the DUTB or the bad bank, so we are also interested in how the DUTB administration plans to operate in 2015. With regard to the management of state assets in the DUTB, it is necessary to clarify that in the SMC we are aware that more efficient and transparent management of assets transferred to a bad bank should be ensured in favour of the state budget and of all citizens. The aim is to improve corporate governance and to establish more effective supervision. We've written this down in the coalition contract, and that's what the government's doing. With regard to DUTB, it should be stressed that it is included in the programme of measures taken by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to prevent corruption for the period 2015-2016. For this reason, the Law on Bank Stability Measures will be drawn up which will take into account the shortcomings identified so far in the functioning of the DUTB, with the legislative framework being prepared in accordance with the opinion of the Commission on anti-corruption in the case of DUTB and the information provided by the detection and prosecution authorities. As stated, the SMC Group will support the proposed report on the management of State assets in the Banks Claims Management Company.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Ms Susana Lepi Šimenko will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, chairman. Well, hello, everyone here again! The Bank Claims Management Company, which was established in spring 2013, is certainly one of the most important institutions in Slovenia today. Depending on their activities, their operation depends on a large part of the Slovenian economy, the functioning of the banking system and, last but not least, our budget. We must also be accountable to citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and to the Slovenian economy which bears the burden of this long-term crisis; the crisis that has also arisen due to the situation in the banking sector. It is precisely because of the above that we have decided in the Slovenian Democratic Party to propose three recommendations on the management of state property. First, it refers to an explanation of the methodology for calculating the transferred assets from banks to the Company for the Management of Bank Claims. According to the data from the 2013 annual report discussed by the Finance Committee, the Bank's Claims Management Company was not involved in the selection of funds transferred to them and in the determination of the transfer prices of these assets. As they state in their report, they also do not know the methodology for calculating these transfer prices. The bank’s claim management company is expected to carry out transfer prices in December 2013 or for some of them in January 2014. Nor should they be aware of the information which the institution has actually calculated the final transfer prices and on what basis these values have been established. They themselves, following the review and their own assessment of the value of the loans for 20 companies, found that there could be a difference between transfer prices and so-called fair values and thus recognised the loss. Let me remind you that the nominal value of the claims transferred from the New Ljubljana Bank was 2.28 billion euros and the nominal value of the claims transferred from the New Maribor Credit Bank was 1.22 billion euros. The bank's debt management company paid the banks transferred claims for EUR 1.1 billion of capital in government bonds with the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia, which is about a third of the book value. Understanding the methodology for calculating the value of assets or assets transferred to the Company for the Management of Bank Claims from Business Banks is crucial for assessing the performance and efficiency of asset management. That is why we have recommended in the Slovenian Democratic Party that the Government prepare information on the methodology for calculating the value of assets or assets transferred to the Company for the Management of Bank Claims from Business Banks and assess the appropriateness of such valuation. In view of the fact that the Government has not adopted the 2013 annual report of the Bank Claims Management Company and that the Bank Claims Management Company has been ordered to supplement it properly and to consider it once again, the Slovenian Democratic Party, in its second recommendation, also proposes that the National Assembly be informed of the updated 2013 annual report. As it is important to assess the effectiveness and effectiveness of the implementation of the Bank Claims Management Company’s 2015 business and financial plan, the third recommendation also proposes to inform the National Assembly of the above-mentioned 2015 business and financial plan. We will, of course, support the proposed recommendations in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We are also pleased that the proposed recommendations have been adopted by the majority on the financial home committee, and, of course, as has been said here today, also adopted by most parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacič will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u74	Vice-President, Mr Secretary, Members and Members of Parliament, good afternoon. Allow me to present the position of the Desus Group on the Proposal for a Recommendation on the Management of State Property in the Banks Claims Management Company. In the Desus Group we constantly call on those responsible for the transparent operation of companies, in particular those owned by the State. Therefore, we believe that the proposal for a recommendation on the management of State property in the Banks Claims Management Company makes sense to support it. We pay particular attention to the functioning of the supervisory authorities and their acceptance of their responsibilities in the banking sector. The banking sector is also a sensitive topic for the general public, as it threatens the foundations of the social aspect of the country. The recommendation concerns three points, the content of which relates mainly to the clear defence of transparent business of the DUTB. It is not only the principles of transparency that are advocated by the people, but also the legal provisions. In fact, the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks defines the activity and rules of operation of the DUTB, which must deal with the care of a good economist and respect the principles of transparency, efficiency, efficiency and performance. The Government is also working towards such objectives as can be achieved in the form of DUTB guidelines. Remember, the latter were already appointed in June 2014 and forwarded to the National Assembly. The DUTB guidelines impose asset management on the principle of good economic operator and the principles of international corporate governance standards. The Desus Group also strongly advocates the need to respect the principle of economy and transparency when deciding on the sale of State property. A lot of controversy also led to a different understanding of the methodology for calculating the value of the transferred DUTB claims, which the applicant pointed out in the first point of the recommendation. In fact, there is a difference between the transfer value and the real value of the transferred claims. Most of the time, the transfer values are overestimated or higher than the fair value of these claims, given the previous review and assessment of the value of corporate loans. The key purpose is thus to eliminate the wrong calculation, which is what the government itself is working towards. Since the correct and uniform interpretation of the method of calculating the value of assets would provide an accurate realistic assessment of the situation, we will unanimously confirm the first point of the proposed decision in the Desus Group. Effective and transparent public property management is, after all, part of the coalition commitment. The remaining content relating to reporting has also been duly modified on the Committee. Thus, we no longer have reservations in the Desus Group. Finally, the preparation of annual reports is also part of the legal obligation. The update of the recommendations will certainly help to establish a performance criterion for state property management, which we have been committed to in the DeSUS Group since the beginning. With regard to the proposed conclusions, we fully predict that we will reconfirm the recommendations in the Desus Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Dr. Franz Križanič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u76	President of the High Council! In the Group of Social Democrats, we support any debate that will lead to better functioning of the institutions that manage the state's assets. Nevertheless, we associate the right to doubt the well-intentionedness of the applicants in this case. As one of the purposes of this point, we recognize the interest in strengthening the environment, how the country, including DUTB and Banka Slovenije, is a poor operator. We agree that the thesis is evident when we think of the banking sector, but let us not forget that we have invested five billion taxpayers' money in it. Uncritical pursuit of cheap sales of what we have obviously invested too much is therefore irresponsible. Some bad banks have been set up in the European Union as forms in the face of the crisis; some are private and others are public. Often the owners of private bad banks are those banks that have become burdensome and manage this bank and then have better results as regards bad claims. This is also an example of at least one foreign-owned bank operating in Slovenia today. Researchers of the think tank of the European Union, the Brussels Institute, which we can call Bruegel, the authors of this study, published as work materials, are Gandrud and Hallerberg, have devoted themselves to the work of the bad banks across Europe. The comparison of 15 bad banks, mostly in public ownership, showed significant differences in the valuation of transferred claims. Thus, it is significant to estimate that in Slovenia the difference between the nominal value and the transaction value was, as far as has been written off, the largest. The authors of the analysis estimate that this write-off amounted to 71 %. This is comparable to the amount that we get when we compare 4.5 billion transferred claims at transaction value, it is said that as many as the banks have paid them, and 1.67 billion euros, as recognised by the DUTB – this is a write-off of 63%. It is the largest write-off in the European Union, as it is said, which is comparable in Ireland and Spain. In Ireland, for example, it reached 58%. Other countries that have consumed these institutions of bad banks and also as public institutions have written down significantly less: 10% to 40% of France, 0% of Germany. Why did they write less? Since, of course, all this write-off is included in the public debt through the recapitalisation that follows it. The title of this study is Bad Bank in the EU and the impact of Eurostat rules or – if I read English – Bad banks in the EU: impact of Eurostat rules. So that's why they were described a lot less elsewhere. The result is not only statistical, negligible or partially negligible, but also, at what cost, this institution will then continue to sell businesses. She'll be free to sell it fast and cheap. This data leads us to conclude that the DUTB must be highly profitable, as it has come at a relatively low cost to the property of great value. The foundation, of course, is on the property that the debtors put in the flag for the loans they received. When considering recommendations based on doubts about the fairness of the calculation of the value of assets transferred to a bad bank, we warn the Group of Social Democrats that it is trying to extinguish the one that has set it on fire. The Slovenian Democratic Party is the one that established the DUTB in an ideal and organisational manner. At the time of the adoption of the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks, we have warned the Social Democrats about possible speculations about the valuation of transferred claims to a bad bank. As one of the central points, we highlighted the question of evaluation, which we considered to be opening up a wide range of possible harm and moral gambling – moral gambling, for the unsolicited, is the difference in the information of the one who is carrying out a project, and of the one who must then pay or on behalf of whom it works. The agent knows a lot more about the case than the one he's working for. All this moral gambling could go, as we discussed, to the detriment of the state and the money of taxpayers or our working people. The experience of the countries that had established such a model had already led to this. But then it was just a cry in the desert; the marriage was to be adopted in 14 days. Today, however, the evaluation problem is uniquely recognised as the main problem causing a number of headaches. At the same time, it is a matter of concern that we have not yet reached the chapter of injury and moral gambling in this book. In the Group of Social Democrats, we welcome the Committee's single support for the recommendations for activities that are intended to reveal the reasons for the different valuations of the claims transferred, and we express our support for these recommendations, and we will vote for them as well. At DUDB, however, we welcome the expectation that it will finally emerge from post-natal contractions and play an active role in the restructuring of businesses and ensure that taxpayers receive adequate reimbursement of over-investment in the banking system and contribute to the success of the development of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr Luka Mesec will present the position of the United Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u78	Dear Mr Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The operation of the so-called bad bank should be assessed in at least three different aspects. The first is whether the establishment of such a facility was indeed the best option to solve the problem of bad claims. Second, or DUTB, once it has become a fact, performs this mission optimally. And third, whether DUTB satisfactorily reports to the Government, the National Assembly and citizens on its functioning. In my contribution, I will try to process all three of them if time allows me to do so. First of all, was DUTB really the best option. We need to get back to history. At the end of 2012, the Bank's Stability Measures Act adopted the SDS Coalition, which then collapsed one year after the wave of protests. DUTB was the project of the finance minister and the neoliberal party, which received only 1% of the votes at the next State elections and fell out of the National Assembly. The law was adopted despite the opposition of the majority of the professional public, and the preparation and implementation of the law was deliberately ignored by people who had already successfully implemented the project of a bad bank in the early 1990s in the framework of the rehabilitation of the Ljubljana Bank and the Credit Bank of Maribor. At that time, a union, the Union of Chemical, Metal, Non-metallic and Rubber Industry, gathered enough civil courage to take the initiative to call a referendum on this subject for the benefit of all citizens. This attempt first stopped at the Ministry of the Interior – the National Assembly, where, miraculously, they lost several hundred signatures – for this, by the way, no one was ever responsible, but should. When that didn't work, the Constitutional Court intervened in the middle. The Constitutional Court prohibited the referendum on the grounds that the well-known facts of the public financial situation demonstrate that there are no effective means in the legal order to ensure the stability of public finances. The judgments of the Constitutional Court, such as this one, can be considered by everyone, but the objective facts are indisputable. The first claims were transferred to the DUTB only at the end of December 2013, i.e. more than one and a half years after that decision that, in the Slovenian legal order, it is not possible to provide stable public finances with existing remedies. Despite this one-and-a-half-year delay, Slovenian public finances did not fail and no three came to Slovenia. This has certainly been done by the fact that in the meantime the right government has fallen, but anyway, it is a fact. Otherwise, the efforts of the founders of the bad bank have not been met. Experience has confirmed the following. Firstly, the transfer of bad claims was not any compensation for recapitalisation as claimed. Another time. The Bad Bank is an expensive administrative institution, which often has its hands tied to bank resolution. For a weak bank is not a bank and therefore cannot write off or reprogram loans to restructure corporate debt. Thirdly, the transfer of claims did not remove the credit crunch. On the contrary, credits in the economy continue to decline despite the fact that we have already invested more than €5 billion in the resolution of the banking system. That is why we can be so much more confident today that in those years when the bad bank was adopted, it would be better to speed up the recapitalisation and solve the problem of bad claims within banks themselves by setting up so-called special companies, which are otherwise provided for by the Bank's Stability Act, but have never been able to revive these companies. At the time, the government, as the owner, had every opportunity to force state banks to actively solve the problem, but did not take advantage of it. The decision to set up a bad bank was therefore neither optimal nor even less the best of the alternatives that existed. Another time. However, since we now have a bad bank and the transfers have already been made, it is necessary to ask whether this institution, i.e. the DUTB, is doing its job well despite the limitations. For the time being, DUTB has not done much other than dealing with himself and has partially carried out the transfer of bad claims from certain banks. In the United Left, we are not making any illusions in order to create a clear picture of the transferred claims with polite explanations that the Government is proposing at the same time as its opinion on this Decision. Among these claims are loans to companies that have already gone bankrupt, as well as claims to still viable companies. Concerned economists have already addressed our parliamentary group, which say that the functioning of the DUTB threatens the future of healthy companies. Recently, however, we were also able to hear the testimony of trade unionists in the National Assembly, which suggests that the sale of companies by para-state institutions does not knowingly protect jobs and employees' rights. Therefore, it is reasonable to suspect that former owners who have been burdened are now trying to redeem their own debts or shares at discount prices, which also contain 90 % write-offs. In short, this DUTB story will not be easy to come to the bottom with recommendations, but only with a strict and precise forensic review of all transfers. If we assess the functioning of the DUTB from a macroeconomic point of view, we may be surprised by the following. Franc Križanič already quoted before me the Bruegel report, which notes that the discount at the transfer price in the Slovenian case was far the largest. For example, in our country, the DUB claims were also transferred with a 70% discount, and in Spain these discounts were only 45%. In most countries, however, claims were transferred to similar institutions of bad banks at book values. By the way, even at the rehabilitation of the old Ljubljana Bank, claims were transferred at book value. This is particularly meaningful where the state owns both banks and bad banks, and so it is with us now. Therefore, it is necessary to consider the following findings of the study. Bad banks or bad banks behave differently to private-owned companies than to public-owned companies in general. Private companies usually impose more write-offs than public ones. The danger resulting from this is double. Firstly, state banks are injured in the transfer because they receive a smaller discount and this is known for their capital adequacy. Secondly, a bad bank can transfer assets at liquidation prices, which in practice means two. First of all, that these existing owners of companies that have bankrupted and are now transferred to a bad bank can buy back the same claim from the bad bank at minimum prices, according to the write-offs of 70 % or more of the debt. And secondly, investors who did not own companies now buy from a bad bank get these companies so cheap that they only get profits by buying and selling their assets. This is, for example, the current situation at MTOM. This system of bad banks is therefore an integrated risk of destruction of businesses and jobs instead of restructuring them. And, however, this will be of interest to the petitioners for privatisation and to the Prime Minister, Dr Cerar, the same hunters, the same beds that companies have brought to the brink of collapse or bankruptcy, will now, at discount prices, receive back what is left of them in these companies. Unfortunately, that's not all. The operation of a bad bank has been a sad warning that we are becoming a banana republic. When the authorities chose to run a bad bank, they assumed that it was better to leave management to foreigners, in this case Scandinavians, who were supposed to be the most honest people under some strange criteria. So now the irony of fate is how these people from Quartz are pulling our noses, because they are members of the DUTB administration and at the same time own companies that advise DUTB. Even a properly revised report has not been able to produce, and even if they have not broken any law, what I have just described is exactly the kind of practice that they probably wanted to avoid by appointment or by choosing operators who have set them up. I hope that this is a sufficient warning against the ideas also advocated by Governor Jazbec, who was here earlier, that Slovenian State Holding should also leave the management of a Quartz. If I move to the finish line. Our expectations for the government are clear. The findings of the Anti-Corruption Commission regarding the conduct of managers should be taken into account in all seriousness. We don't care if I quote Cerar, "hunts, bearings and other displays". We demand that irregularities be proved and that accountability be established with concrete names, surnames and infringements. Otherwise, the government will ignore its own responsibility and destroy the few remaining seriousness of the state institutions. Dr Cerar announced that the Government would draft a law that would allow for the revision of the investment in TES6 and would ensure that the law would also allow for the revision in other state-owned companies. Given that DUTB is also 100 % state-owned, we therefore call on the Government and the coalition to prepare a law that will make the legal conditions for carrying out such a comprehensive forensic audit even in the case of DUTB, because, as I have tried to show its operation, it is extremely problematic. For the last time, we expect the government to do what it stands for. In order to submit amendments to the Bank's Stability Act. The government promises that the draft will be ready in March. In the amended law, the DUTB obligations relating to the management of transferred claims should be set out more correctly. The current task of the DUTB to sell bad claims and other assets, if possible with profits, by the end of 2017 is essentially too small and too loose. The law must oblige the DUTB to enable the restructuring of companies, but not to sell to buyers who are unable or unwilling to ensure that jobs are maintained there. It is necessary to extend the operation of the DUTB because, in the three years remaining, it is not possible to ensure the quality restructuring of large companies, such as Cimosa. We expect the DUTB-owned housing fund to be included in housing policy, as the DUTB currently sits on the property that is failing, many of which are even new buildings, while on the other hand housing funds do not have favourable housing in suitable locations at the moment, and tens of thousands of young people are forced to live in the Hotel Mama due to high prices. Since a housing programme is currently being prepared, this is also a real opportunity to open a debate on this. If I briefly identify myself before the proposals for conclusions. The first decision requires the Government to provide information on the transmission methodology and assess suitability. We have obtained this together with the opinion and the adoption of such a recommendation is over. This could also be achieved in the context of the question referred to by the Member States or, for example, at the request of the Commission for the supervision of public finances, where, last but not least, the applicant also has a president. The second decision requires the Government to take note of the DZ's annual DUTB report. It is also unclear here why the National Assembly should call on the Government to do so, since the DUTB must publish such a report itself in accordance with Article 15. If there has been any communication noise on this link, it can also be addressed with a question or with a call from the Commission for the supervision of public finances. And the third decision, the Government is charged with informing the DZ of the DUTB business plan for 2015. The business strategy must be published online in accordance with the management guidelines. The financial plan will be dealt with by the Government, which is also the DUTB Assembly, so the DUTB does not have to publish the financial plan by law or send it to the National Assembly, but the document can be obtained by a competent commission. It is clear from this that the Government could already provide most of the information in order to obtain most of the information resulting from these recommendations. Part of this information, i.e. the business report, is the subject of a public publication and must be transmitted by the DUTB to the Government by law, the DUTB business strategy is the subject of a public publication and, in our opinion, the financial plan could be obtained by the Commission for the supervision of public finances. In short, the recommendations have no value. Four hours and 55 minutes are foreseen for the debate of the National Assembly on a decision already taken or to be carried out with one call from the President of the Commission for the supervision of public finances to the competent minister. The purpose of this general debate is, therefore, probably not information, but propaganda. Now we will listen for a few hours to the advice of those who have proposed and adopted a law on measures for the stability of banks despite all the opposition of experts and warnings. This abuse of the Institute of General Debate for the first or second reading of the law or act will obviously be the main pyro strategy of the extreme right in this mandate. But in principle, it doesn't matter if something is true, if we repeat it enough times, it's just going to be the truth, because people will believe it. In the United Left, we will seriously consider obstruction if such scandalous practices continue. But we also call on coalition parties and all those who are not for another republic to consider in the future whether it makes sense to propose proposals that are just a smoker commitment to conceal our own responsibility and to waste all of us's time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u79	Thank you. Mr. Marko Pogačnik, please. What do you want procedurally?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u80	I'll take three minutes to tell you. Madam President, I propose that you comply with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and that you take action to draw attention to the insults of your fellow Member of the Moon. I do not see any extreme right in the National Assembly; and this is happening yesterday, from the radical right hand and today the extreme right hand. I think you should point that out as president. But the other story is with them. Their idols and their "faithfuls" now have a "radical left" in their name. The SDS party is no extreme right, and this insult should be interrupted in the National Assembly! You're the only person responsible as president to do this! Even in our program, our statutes don't have any radical issues. We are members of the European People's Party, which does not belong to the radical right. And your client has idols in his radical left.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u81	Thank you. I am of the opinion that the National Assembly is just a place and a place where Members and Members are confronted by different opinions, so I will not take this proposal into account. What do you want procedurally? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u82	Respected! Your work is procedural. I ask that you actually follow the rules of procedure and alert the Member who addresses the other Members in abusive and untrue terms. This is not a variety of opinions, this is an insult, a respected chairman. And I ask that you take advantage of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and remind the Member of that. I don't come from a radical right, and I won't let anyone in the National Assembly declare it. Read to yourself, dear fellow moon, our statutes, our program and then talk about various populism and pleasant expressions to you. And indeed, Madam President, I ask for your warning.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u83	Thank you. I reiterate what I have already said. I know that many times all of us Members use the terms that are at the border of the right one, and we allow it in practice, so I suggest that we move forward in accordance with the agenda. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Here's another procedural one.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u84	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam Vice President! Well, that's what I'm gonna say. I have been in the National Assembly for the fourth time now, and as a member of this National Assembly, I have always tried to work honestly and responsibly, and so I have also done my job, and I do not allow Mr Luka Mesec, who is sitting in the National Assembly today, about, I don't know, for four months, to tell us what we are doing, what we are doing and what we are dealing with with with a radical right. I won't allow that, Mr. Moon! I really can't afford it. This is not about inappropriate or appropriate words, Madam Vice-President, but about whether someone is telling the truth or telling a lie. Please warn your respectable colleague Luke Mesca of this. And so will all his other colleagues as they continue to express themselves. Because we do not deserve this in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u85	Thank you. You said you didn't agree with that. I'll stop the debate here now. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members. Mr Uroš Prikl has the floor to prepare Mr Jernej Vrtovec. Mr. Pogačnik, do you want to be a proponent? First of all, Mr. Mag. Marko Pogačnik as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u86	Madam President, thank you for your word! In the introductory part, I would like to point out, as in the previous paragraph, that it is my pleasure and pleasure, given the position of the Group Members, that these three recommendations will also be supported. I think that this will be supported by a large majority, and I think that even the incorrect relationship on the part of the United Left – given that they have only 6 or how many Members – will not support this proposal. I would now focus on a certain part of the concerns and discussions that have been made regarding the Bank's Claims Management Company. Here, in particular, on the statement made by Comrade Franz Križanič, this law has indeed been prepared and enforced during the term of government of Janez Janša, but far from being the truth that this law would be ready within 14 days. It should be pointed out that the government of Janez Janša then decided to invite all parliamentary groups, both coalition and opposition, in the management of bank claims and in the Slovenian State Holding Act to prepare this law, and that there were several months of work on these two laws. I also told several times as the leader of the Slovenian State Holding Act group that these two laws had also become better with the help of the proposals of the opposition parties at the time. It has to be said that the bad bank came to life a few days after the fall of the government of Janez Janša. We estimate that the responsibility for the operation of the Bank Claims Management Company must be taken over by the government of Alenka Bratušek and the current government of Mr Mir Cerar. There is no doubt that the government of Alenka Bratušek, in a relatively short time from the board of directors of this company, has resolved our colleague Andrej Širclja. That makes it quite clear what they were meant to do. Now, Sir Križanič, you have talked a lot about these claims that we did not feel this claim either, I would say, the subject of questions and also one of the recommendations that the methodology and everything should be clarified. [[…]] However, according to the law on the management of claims of banks, claims transferred from banks to so-called bad bank, are confirmed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. These claims began to be transferred at the end of 2013 and were carried forward until 2014. As an SD coalition party, you had every opportunity to comment on these claims. We also consider these claims to be, I would say, a matter of considerable concern at this point. Here, too, I would now like to ask these questions to the Secretary of State that he may now present to the Assembly a little bit more details on the way in which these claims are transferred. According to the information known to me, there is an interdepartmental commission consisting of representatives of the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Finance and the Bank of Slovenia that prepare certain claims and then confirmed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. And here the Government of the Republic of Slovenia – we know when these claims began – that is, the government of Alenka Bratušek and the government of Mir Cerar – must accept full responsibility. This is not the case with the Slovenian Democratic Party; no claims will be transferred or at what values these claims will be transferred. These claims, I agree, have been transferred with a substantial discount. The claims from Nova Ljubljanska banka were transferred on average with a value of 27 % and the claims of Nova Kreditna banka Maribor with a value of 37 %. Here I would stress the nonconsistency in the position of the United Left, because once they said that these discounts were too high, but in the following sentences, colleague Luka Mesec began to say that banks were in a worse position because they were smaller discounts. Now you decide whether they're smaller or they're too high discounts. This is probably evidence of this inconsistency and this populism being carried out by the United Left. Dear Secretary of State, we would also like this information, which I mentioned earlier, as to how these claims are transferred. And, have you also considered – since you have already announced the amendment or amendment of the law – the transfer of these bad claims, where I am interested, why, say, the representatives of the Banking Claims Management Company cannot participate in the transfer of these claims? Because we have now seen from the annual report that the Bank Claims Management Company, as a good host, has decided to do their own evaluation. On the one hand, I think this is binding on them, because as good hosts, they have to do this work. However, the question is, of course, whether it would be more reasonable, more economical, that, for example, he would be a representative of the Bank Management Company in this Interdepartmental Commission and that they would not then subsequently check the valuations. We know that the valuation of certain investments or claims is also a considerable cost and, on the other hand, it probably takes time. The annual report also showed that these different valuations of the transferred claims do not deviate by a few tens of thousands of euros, but depart by millions. Also from this title, the annual report of the Bank Management Company shows a result of €92 million. I think it would make sense to say this, but above all the methodology. For what are the criteria for transferring bad claims anyway? If all the bad claims were indeed transferred from banks after the end of 2013, as has been said, then probably two of our largest system banks would not have failed the stress tests carried out in the framework of the European Central Bank. I think it is right that this debate is being held today. It is also right that these recommendations are accepted by the National Assembly, because I believe that the Company for Bank Claims Management is probably one of the most important institutions in Slovenia today that dictate the pace of how the economy and the banking system will develop in the future. Last but not least, a lot of tax money was also invested here. The annual report – probably for the reasons given at the time to the Public Finance Supervisory Commission – requested a supplement. Here is the Slovenian Democratic Party of the same opinion, namely that this annual report has been written in short, in particular in the area of the financial report. We know that we are also asked about the eligibility of these high costs that this company has, in particular those costs of advisory contracts, which are very underwritten, especially the reasons why advisory contracts are used and whether such high amounts are also justified. I would like to know whether the Company for Bank Claims Management has already completed this 2013 report or whether the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has already examined it or what deadline you have given the Bank Claims Management Company to complete this report and when the Government of the Republic of Slovenia intends to consider this report. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we estimate that it is a very important business-financial plan for 2015, because this will clearly show what the objectives of this company's operation and where they will go; whether the company will start selling these claims, much has been said about the real estates on which the Bank Claims Management Company sits, here are the whole neighbourhoods where they have interrupted the cases, and I think that this business-financial plan will probably also show what the strategy will be and what the planned measures will be. Finally, we are also, of course, interested in what will happen to the companies or claims transferred to this society. The claims are, I would say, significant and, last but not least, today, the Company has a significant impact on the functioning of individual companies. Does the company expect any economy or financial restructuring of these companies here, or what are the plans? Finally, I would also like to ask you, Madam Secretary of State, how the Ministry of Finance or the Government exercises control over this company. We know that this company has an executive board, it means executive and non-executive directors, and in what way you have meetings, you have no way of getting familiar with the functioning of this company, or whether the Government or the Ministry of Finance gives some guidance or some kind of signal, how this society should develop in the future. Last but not least, as I asked the Governor of Banka Slovenije at the previous point, what is your view, given that the Governor of Banka Slovenije has now confirmed that Probank is involved in the provision of services to the Company for the Management of Bank Claims. The company for bank claims management was set up primarily for one reason to transfer bad claims from banks to one place and that this newly established company, with some new and independent personnel, with those who were actually responsible for the emergence of these bad claims, starts to manage it, and now we see that the company that we had under controlled liquidation, the private bank that we helped the taxpayers is now providing services to this company. I don't find these things in any way the first step is the most logical. However, if you would explain with substantial arguments where the reasons for this were, and in particular whether the Ministry of Finance or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia agrees with this method of action.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u87	Thank you. Mr. Uroš Prikl has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Madam President, colleagues and colleagues! I have to tell you that when I listen to this debate, when the accusations of extreme left-to-right extremes rain, and vice versa, I have to say that I am extremely sad when I hear this, because we are transferring the subject of DUTB surveillance to an ideological level, which I do not think is most appropriate. In some respects, I agree with Luke and share his opinion, but not this time. Not this time because I see at this point a different solution. Me and my colleagues in Desus, of course, all of us think it makes sense, but we also urgently need to support them, and we also support them on the committee, and we will also be at the National Assembly, recommendations on the management of state property in the so-called bad bank. It's just like the resolution of the banking system, which we talked about at the previous point. I'll tell you again. We have always been in Desus, and we will be transparent, efficient, economical, and, above all, successful in the final outcome of the business principle everywhere. Of course, there is no exception to the banking sector, where it is particularly sensitive for us and for all the inhabitants of this country, since it regulates our daily lives. I believe that it is right for the National Assembly to take note of this and to take note in detail of any further explanation of the calculation of the value of the assets or assets transferred to the DUTB or the bad bank. Why? It is undoubtedly intended to understand only the methodology and, above all, to implement it consistently. If you don't understand this, it's going to be very difficult for you to look down on someone who actually does. It is also appropriate to take note of and adopt an appropriate position with regard to the DUTB reports themselves in the preceding period, as well as the purpose or plan of work for the future. I believe that in a short time we will be receiving the first completed report by the Government, I believe that she knew why she rejected it and requested a supplement, and in particular that we will be getting an update on the plan of what the DUTB intends to do in the future. Whether it's a coalition contract ad or a Desus program, I'll read you two lines from these two documents. The Coalition Treaty speaks of the need to ensure more efficient and transparent management of assets transferred to the DUTB for the benefit of the state budget and citizens. And citizens, it's an emphasis. The objective is, of course, to improve corporate governance and to establish effective control. What does Desus' program say? And I don't want this to be a commercial for my client. We will demand a successful management of state assets, tighten the responsibility of supervisors and administrations and clearly set performance criteria. Why did I read that? I read in particular with the aim of rejecting that flossule, that the country is a bad master. What is the state in this case? Does the country sit in the chair of the board of directors of company x, y? No, no, no. These are people with names and surnames that work and should do what's responsible. And if they do not work, they will be called to account — both materially and criminally. And they will need to be called if they have committed a crime, at the expense of responsibility, I stress again, indemnity and indemnity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u89	Thank you. Mr Jernej Vrtovec has the floor to prepare Mr Ivan Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u90	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Secretary of State! When we talk about the Bank Claims Management Company, I personally see a key problem, namely that this bank was set up with one very good purpose, and the question is how good this purpose has actually come true. Foreignly, for example, where the problem of settled claims has also been solved by setting up a so-called bad bank, many have also found that the owners of so-called bad banks have also been private with their own capital. But in our case, it's DUTB, and I see it personally as a weakness, solely state-owned. You know, the repeated thesis, if this capital were involved, or if private individuals were involved in it, would then certainly continue to sell these inherited claims at a higher value. And I also agree with those who say that the problem is just evaluation, and that there are speculations. That's right. That's all true. But the main problem here is the transfer of inherited claims itself. And I also have a question: When and if all claims from state banks will be transferred to the DUTB? Once again, this is not the last time that the Slovenian economy has taken place. It's about speculation. There was a lot about the establishment of the DUTB unfulfilled. However, there are also some irregularities that the Court of Auditors and the Anti-Corruption Commission draw attention to. And it is also right that we get to know each other in the future in the National Assembly. In particular, I would like to point out one case that occurred when DUTB sent one of the companies to bankruptcy and then the Supreme Court withdrew or annulled the bankruptcy. Here you have to wonder whose interest, whose speculations were in the background. Some of you know what Slovenian society I'm talking about, but back there can be serious responsibilities for individuals. This is certainly why the Court of Auditors should be heard in this case. In December, the Court of Auditors, which was also in the media, sent a notice that everything was not all right. They found out about the irregularities. The Anti-Corruption Commission does not also identify irregularities or say that they were cases of corruption, but corrupt risks in 2013. I personally wish our bad bank would actually start working, and time is not much longer. Its operation or non-action also affects the development of our economy, our businesses. And that's it. I have already mentioned Article 33 of the DUTB in the previous debate, and I will do it again. 33. Article DUTB, first paragraph, states that the members of the DUTB Board shall be liable for any suspicion of criminal conduct by members of the management bodies and members of the supervisory authorities of the banks and the supervisory authorities of the banks they are aware of in relation to the performance of their work, in particular when reviewing the credit cards referred to in Article 11, paragraph 9, of this Law, to be notified to the competent authorities immediately. Here's the responsibility. In Article 33 of the DUTB. The DUTB therefore has all the legal powers to carry out so-called forensic investigations into the location of the taxpayer's money in banks and does not carry out this. And given that the state is the owner of the DUTB, that it is not a private capital, which appears to be problematic, the DUTB must call to account here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u91	Thank you. Mr Ivan Hršak has the floor to prepare Mrs Marusha Škopac.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with a co-worker, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to make it clear in the beginning that I have recommended more than I support. But I'm going to describe banking issues a little bit wider, just like I see it myself. Whenever we start a debate about our banks and the DUTB, I'm in a bit of a bad mood and the pressure is getting a little bit higher. In this area, in fact, I find nothing positive, but the problems themselves and a lot of abuse. On the other hand, no found guilty persons should be held accountable for their actions in court. We're all more than familiar with the incredibly high recapitalisations of our state banks, and then these same banks fell again on the next stress test. As our residents say behind our Sotle or Kolpa "To make your mind stand or in the Slovenian translation to shut your mind off. My personal statement, which I also made at a session of the investigative commission, which I was a member of, is that the banks appear to be a state in the country. Under the cover of banking secrecy, as has been written in the law today, there have been irregularities, and they are likely to happen in the future if we do not change the law and change the term, the concept of banking secrecy. This, in my view, must be done as soon as possible. Strange stories are also happening in addition to what is happening in our state banks around the DUTB. When the so-called bad bank was established, which I personally supported, of course, I didn't think we would get a real bad bank. I also looked with approval at the choice of management of the DUDB to be foreigners in it, because I thought you would be interrupted until the Slovenian practice, where everyone seems to know each other and also act, of course, for their own benefit and not for the benefit of the country or citizens of this country. This, in my view, is intended to prevent and ensure the necessary transparency of business in the Slovenian banking area. It is precisely the first recommendation that concerns the problem of the methodology for calculating the value of assets or assets transferred to the DUTB, why some have been transferred and why some have not. Of course, there are other ambiguities here that I will never mention again. I'm just going to mention not selling apartments, extending obligations to some and so on. The commission of inquiry to identify abuses in the banking system of which I was a member did not actually achieve anything. Why not? Because all our state banks referred to the banking secrecy mentioned earlier, and on the basis of this they did not wish to give us or hand over any document of disputed transactions, to protect the confidentiality of the commissioners. This was not the case with ordinary committees operating in accordance with the law, but in our case it was the controversial committees, the contested credit agreements. And as a point of reference, the commission of inquiry also turned to the competent court to obtain these documents only, that is to say that we have achieved that the banks will deliver them to us and we have experienced a shock – we have not been allowed to do so. Is that normal? From everything I have said comes my personal conclusion, which I have also stated at this meeting of the Commission of Inquiry, as I said before, that banks are actually acting like one country in the country. And the last. This practice must be completed as soon as possible in order for taxpayers to pay any possible recapitalisation of these state banks. But only owners, like in other countries. We can look at ourselves, although we are mostly not comparing ourselves, let's say with Croatia. Croatia, as far as I know, all the major major major banks are not in Croatian ownership. And for the problems of these banks, Croatian taxpayers have not given a single euro. In Slovenia, of course, this is completely different. My view is that we need to settle this matter as soon as possible so that these banks get the right owners and then we can proceed normally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u93	Thank you. Mrs Marusha Škopac has the floor to prepare Mrs Nada Brinovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u94	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Today we are considering a proposal for a recommendation on the management of assets in the DUTB. As well as the previous recommendation on Banka Slovenije's activities regarding the resolution of the banking system in the SMC Group, we also support the recommendation on the management of state assets in the DUTB. There is no doubt that the entire SMC Group is interested in the methodology for calculating the value of assets or assets transferred to DUTB from business banks. The methodology chosen is important because on this basis the final amount of recapitalisation of banks, already others in our independent country, was, of course, from taxpayers' pockets. However, the amount of the methodology selected is important for another reason. Of course, Slovenian financiers have already learned at the first resolution of the banking system that if you properly misjudge the claims, you have secured a smooth business for the next few years. Clearly, if the value of the claim is greatly appreciated, and you are aware that its actual profitability is much higher in the years ahead, this ensures the creation of large profits that are not actually due to regular operation but, above all, to a conscious sub-evaluation of claims that have been the subject of a weakening. In view of everything we can read in different media, we are, in fact, firmly convinced that, in addition to the valuation methodology, the list of investments that have been transferred to a bad bank needs to be checked in particular. As we can read in Youth of 21. 11. In 2014, a journalist, Mr Borut Mekina, writes how the list of transferred claims from three state banks, NLB, NKBM and Abanke also contained loans from a company that is not in a compulsory settlement and not in bankruptcy. In fact, the company settles its obligations on a regular basis and the loans are also perfectly secured by the shares of our largest oil dealer. And to show more plasticly the bizarreness of all of this, the New Credit Bank of Maribor is supposed to transfer credits to the DUTB with a 40% discount, it is said that at the time of the transfer of the claim it had to deduct 40% of the value of the loan, which is measured in millions of amounts. In accordance with the Government's guidelines, the bad bank should make sure that the borrowers whose claims have been transferred to the DUTB would not have had the opportunity to redeem their own claims back, with a discount of course. In reality, though, this is difficult or impossible to prevent, for they can do so through intermediaries. In doing so, both the intermediary and the borrower make good money buying their claim back with the discount. Of course it's all on us taxpayers. It is not surprising, therefore, that there are rumors that companies have tried to list the transfer claims to a bad bank. And that is exactly what we believe is necessary for a thorough study, because if it turns out to be true, it is the place of tax money and we strongly oppose it in the SMC Group and, of course, condemn it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u95	Thank you. Mrs Nada Brinovšek has the floor to prepare Mr Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u96	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Have a nice hello to everyone again! My opinion is that as long as companies and banks are state-owned, political involvement in this is undoubtedly a fact. The consequences are mostly bad for the country, most of which is a loss, even in the case of banks. And that's what we've been witnessing in recent years. Political elites and construction barons leased Taiwanese loans that were not economically eligible. The consequences of these loans have proved to be the problems of NLB banks and NKBM, which have then transferred most of their bad claims to DUTB. Let me remind you that the recapitalisation of banks would not be possible without the transfer of bad claims to the DUTB and that in December 2013 we recapitalised these two banks of five billion. Since its establishment in March 2013, we have been able to monitor information on the functioning of the DUTB itself through the media. Most likely, we all remembered DUTB after hiring outside associates to help plan their actions and pay them well, at least in our opinion, and that DUTB stopped selling apartments at Celovské dvorna just before the signing of the purchase contracts a year ago. Here it was, or it was, two hundred and fifty dwellings of the bankruptcy mass of the fallen Vegrad, who have been alone in the Celebrities for the fifth year. As a reason for non-sales, DutB indicated that they considered prices too low. In one year, the bad bank has not taken over the apartments, and on the other hand, we have young families with housing problems. In view of the DUTB report that was considered by the Finance Committee at the end of last year, it states that it was not included in the valuation of assets, nor in the determination of transfer prices, that the transfer prices were calculated using the methodology following it, that it was not known which institution actually calculated the final transfer prices and on what basis the prices were determined that it had only done an evaluation for 20 companies and found that there could be a difference between transfer prices and fair values and that documentation was in many cases weak or non-existent. Here I am asked the question of the proper conduct of the bank at all. Given that the members of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, at the Committee's meeting on a proposal from our party, have agreed with the recommendations proposed, I hope that these recommendations will also be adopted today. If they do, I will also be very happy, and I hope they will be realized. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u97	Thank you. Mr Franc Jurša has the floor to prepare Dr Franci Križanič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Vice President. Nice greetings to my friends and friends! As you have probably already noticed, we are always talking about a bad bank, about the failures of small businesses, but we should be talking about success, as well as the economies in general. Most of our discussions still revolve around this topic. You know, if a person works for a while, but it doesn't work, then it's time to change that habit. DUTB also became involved in miscalculation and interpretation of the methods of calculating the value of assets or assets transferred to a bad bank from business banks. Since the correct calculations are the basis for the transparent functioning of a bad bank and the mandatory part of the annual report transmitted to the Government for consideration, the idea is that there is an open and successful conversation or dialogue between them. The performance assessment can be made from the company's previous indicators, but the direction of further development is drawn up with the envisaged plans for further development. Therefore, I think it is right to get to know and examine in detail the financial plan of the bad bank for 2015. This gave us that information to know whether we started moving things in the right direction or whether we were still heading in a negative direction. As early as June 2014, the government confirmed the guidelines for the operation of the bad bank. The latter impose upon the DUTB, in its operations, to act solely on the principle of a good master. Even in our parliamentary group, we are convinced that, if there is a true master, there is no fear of the preparation and content of the annual business reports on actual data or the opinion of the supervisory authorities. In the Group of Members, we believe that the principle of economy is one of the solutions for the transparent functioning of any society, including the countries, if you want. We have been doing this since the very beginning, it is part of a coalition treaty and it is also a commitment. Yes, it is true that banks are still owned by the State and we must take care of them in accordance with the principle mentioned above. Banks continue to need state financial injections in the form of recapitalisation. We have done these recapitalisations too many times in the past. As a result, we can safely claim that the banking sector is potentially threatening the social sector. In this place, I am obliged to point out what we most point out in our parliamentary group, namely pensions and other social transfers. We are constantly witnessing various data on the amounts of bad claims relating to the bad bank. As is already known, the five billion euro gross claims transferred to the bad bank by six banks together. Do you know how many average pensions this is or how many minimum wages this is? The amount could be used for more than six million minimum wages in Slovenia and for almost nine million average net pensions in the Republic of Slovenia. This information speaks eloquently about the shovel we used to invest money in banks. A huge part of the bad claims is expected to arise from lending to construction companies that have largely failed. Their owners and their directors are in jail or in hospitals. Your Honor, this is actually the cause of the whole situation. We should focus more on the start-up of the economy, on measures to increase the number of jobs and to revive economic growth. It has always been known that it is better to invest in prevention than in curate. I want to know how many bad claims it takes to start thinking in this direction. With regard to recovery, as well as to the future, the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners still believes that the responsibility of the supervisory authorities will need to be strengthened.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u99	Thank you. The word is from Dr. Franz Križanič, prepare for Mr Branko Zorman.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Allow me at the outset to respond to some ideas, opinions expressed in the debate. First of all, you must be informed of the fact that the Social Democratic Party voted against the law that introduced the DUTB. The procedure in Parliament itself, as it was somehow in our focus to look, I was not in Parliament, but I looked into it, it ran from 20 September to 3 October, it is said to be about 14 days in autumn 2012. Then he followed the veto in the State Council and then the referendum offer, and once again in November, this law was finally approved. Then the idea was that they have a very well-structured banking sector in Croatia. Not only Croatia, the whole of the Western Balkans has the basic problem that banks are completely foreign-owned and are still in recession. We've been up for a while. The gentleman who said that is just leaving. The problem of loans to construction barons is multi-layered. These barons were in charge of large assets, but it hit banks, by multipliers, after all those supply chains of designers, experts and others who were linked to the activities of these important Slovenian companies. And then there were bad claims. Of course, these people, these are small and medium-sized enterprises, after the supply chain, then found new niches and they're not as bad as they looked at the beginning when they had some kind of shock. It is also different with the rest of the economy, which largely took place on the DUTB portfolio. This is an economy that generates 70 billion plants. Last year, it was probably 37 billion and slightly more GDP, 27 billion or more exports of goods and services, in banks it was due when it was normally financed, 21 billion. The share of bank loans to the economy was among the smallest, the second smallest among the members of the European Union. So this pressure couldn't possibly have been, I don't know, how big. Since such write-offs have been transferred to the DUTB and when they come, there is hope, and because of the actions of the European Central Bank, now there are two of them, Slovenia must also happen in order for the credit flow to flow, then the situation of these companies will improve significantly, the manual of their credits will improve, because it is their problem that they want all of a sudden they will be able to get a new credit. In this case, the value of these companies will also be measured through the results of the EBITDA, the so-called depreciation plus profit over some six or even ten or twelve years will be substantially increased and the possibilities of obtaining some appropriate funds to cover the costs of this recovery will be significantly improved. If this goes fast, and my idea is to go fast, then the beneficiary of this rise, this increased value, will be the one who will buy these companies fast enough. This is even more painful in banks where it is already literally in liquid form that this capital has been invested in recapitalisation. How did this happen? Since I have time to say, and we will continue to point out, I think we will have to deal with this in Parliament. In 2013 in the last months, in some orchestrated and negative atmosphere, I am very careful with the word, stress tests have been organised. The Bank of Slovenia has done so, with a very deep recession, it has found that it is possible that it would happen if it were a really terrible recession, that we would have bad claims in Slovenia for 2.4 billion. Then this was not enough and they hired two foreign evaluators, one being such that he was necessarily secret. It is already a question of whether it is even possible to engage this company in this way for a public project. But good, let's say yes. This was Oliver Wyman and he found that in the case of a neutral scenario, a relatively slow recession, I also wrote here, in 2014, Slovenia's GDP was expected to fall by 1.5% and then remained unchanged in 2015, increased by 0.1%, would need four billion. Then, in the event of a recession, that in 2014, GDP would fall by 3.8% and in 2015 by 2.9%, they would need an additional 4.8 billion. And the European Commission, or one that requested it, has, however, carried out a check-up. Roland Berger Consultants found out about this. They found that, in the case of the basic scenario, they would need €2.7 billion under the same assumptions, something like the Bank of Slovenia. The difference was that Banka Slovenije assumes one deep fall, if I understood correctly in the texts, while Ronald Berger has the same assumptions as I introduced them, but it is there somewhere, while at an unfavourable scenario there is 3.3 billion euros. The difference between taking Ronald Berger as a base is about 45% in an unfavourable scenario and even greater in the basic scenario. But if we take Oliver Wyman, the difference is about 30, 33%. Thus, the stress test should be repeated in such a large difference between the two stress tests. But there's no way you can break down the owners of the banks and stuff like that. We're gonna have to deal with this. The fact is that based on this test was taken into account in the transfer of this most unfavourable test of 4.8 billion from Oliver Wyman was slightly reduced. If we look at the scenario and compare it with the actual situation, the difference of 6.3% in GDP or 2.3 billion euros in GDP was assumed. And on this basis, they acted, and on this basis they took businesses, moved them, and now sold them out. This is a major problem in the way these claims went to DUTB, how large the write-off was and how it will continue to be managed. I think how it will continue to be managed – nothing is lost because everything is still lost when sold at a very low price, if we look so very only financially, and then the effects on employment, indirect effects and the like – are, of course, on this government. This government is responsible for how DUTB will function and is responsible for the conduct of its management and management. As members of the coalition, we are also responsible and co-responsible to the Social Democrats. We were also responsible when this came, but in the atmosphere in which this was coming, the government would, of course, have to show more courage and not have it. However, how could this be achieved by a party in the coalition, but this is another issue. I was able to write at the time, partly to Youth, and especially to the Opinion of Work, and I wrote, as I recall, that this was not the right approach, that it would have to be different, that the assumptions were wrong, those that I had just known. Let me inform you that today, as a Member, I no longer have the right to publish on the Opinion of the newspaper Delo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u101	Thank you. Mrs. Susana Beautiful Šimenka has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u102	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice to meet you again. Much has already been said about the Bank Claims Management Company itself, which was set up for one reason in particular, due to the rehabilitation of the banking system. Sanitation, which has already cost us €5 billion to date. The DUTB was set up with the task of helping to restructure banks of systemic importance in difficulty. The transfer of funds to the Bank Claims Management Company was needed. All of this, of course, with the aim of allowing banks with improved balance sheets and sufficient capital to approve new loans, thus contributing to the growth of the Slovenian economy. Today, however, we have not yet experienced this, or it would be very difficult to talk about it. We do know, however, that if these €5 billion, which we have invested in the rehabilitation of banks themselves, were to invest in the economy, in good projects or perhaps in infrastructure, so that today we could certainly see a number of positive results. We could certainly talk about thousands of new jobs, we could talk about reducing overworked salaries with contributions and therefore higher net salaries for employees, or we could talk about a better health system or a better education system. If we look at the latest results, an analysis of the economic freedom index for 2015, we can see that we fell again on the scale. We are 36th among the European countries from 43 countries. At world level, we are somewhere in the middle, 88th among 178 countries. I don't think that's good. In the past, we have repeatedly compared ourselves with Switzerland. Do you know where Switzerland is?Oh, my God! If we compare it to European countries, it's at 1. The city, worldwide among all 178 countries in 5th place, therefore, at the very top. We have all the neighbouring countries ahead of us, Croatia, Austria, Italy, and Albania, Macedonia. In the last three places – do you know which countries they are?Oh, my God! Venezuela, Cuba and North Korea. We probably don't want to compare with these countries. And I will return to the transfer of claims from the business banks to the DUTB. When considering the 2013 annual report, it was pointed out that DUTB was not included in the transfer pricing process itself and the selection of the assets transferred to it. Following the re-evaluation of the assets they had made, they found that the fair values of the transferred assets were lower than the carrying value and showed a loss accordingly. This is precisely why I think it is extremely important to me what this methodology was like to calculate the value of assets or assets transferred to the DUTB. And it is right that this methodology is known. It is right to know who decided which claims or assets are transferred. And it is right to know the way these claims were handled. That is why I support the recommendations made by the Slovenian Democratic Party. The first recommendation concerns the submission of the methodology. Since the Government did not confirm the 2013 DUB report, in the second recommendation we proposed that the updated report should also be discussed in the National Assembly, which I support. Since it is essential for the successful, efficient and transparent functioning of the DUTB to present to us an action plan for 2015, we have proposed this in the third recommendation. The business and financial plan is basically the basic document of every organisation in our country and abroad. And since the State-owned Bank Claims Company is a company that manages taxpayers' money, it is all the more important that both the National Assembly and the general public are aware of this plan. And I look forward to this debate when we consider this 2015 plan in the National Assembly, although I believe that this plan should already be discussed at the end of the year, sometime in November or no later than December 2015. Much bad will has already been said in the past at the expense of DUTB, and it really seems to me that it is right that we do everything in our power to make the operation of this organisation, institution or whatever we call it as transparent as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u103	Thank you. Does the representative of the government want a word? Secretary of State, Mr. Dronja Method, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Dear Members, Members and Madam Vice-President! I'll try to explain something. There were many questions in the discussion, many questions in the views of the parties, so I will at least try to answer in the grave. However, this discussion will continue once the individual documents have been submitted to the National Assembly in accordance with the proposed decision. The original problem, in fact, as it appears from these discussions, is to lie in the DUB itself and in its functioning; first, I would like to present a personal position now, not as a representative of the Government. In fact, the original problem was in the bank's rules of procedure. DUTB is a bad bank, it was set up to be involved in solving this problem. There were many discussions about concepts on how to solve banks in those years 2012, 2013. Some were in favour of this concept to relieve banks of bad loans, but some were in favour of the view that these problems should be resolved where they occurred in the banks themselves. Why did the concept of a bad bank prevail if we make one summary as much as we can, or one estimate? I think the main reason why the bad bank was set up was mainly to reduce the need to recapitalise banks. If part of the bad loans were not transferred to a bad bank, the need for recapitalisation would be even greater and recapitalisation must be done immediately. As a rule, one half was carried out immediately with the cash deposit or the conversion of deposits held by the State in banks and only one small part in bonds. The transfer of bad loans reduced the risk-weighted assets of banks, reducing the need for capital or the amount of recapitalisation. That's my main, crucial argument. Whether this solution was most appropriate or not will still be assessed, but when the decision is taken, it must be implemented. ZUKSB prescribed these mechanisms, set up a bad bank. These processes were very complicated in this part where the European Commission agreed on State aid, and virtually all these measures were considered State aid to banks. And these trials were difficult. In fact, Slovenia was one of those countries where these methodologies were also partially tested. How were the loans transferred, by what means, by what logic? There were a lot of questions about that. The fact is that DUTB did not participate in the collection of these loans transferred to them. DUTB is the recipient, the proposal, the list of bad transfer credits prepared by the business banks themselves according to their criteria. This proposal was verified by the Bank of Slovenia. It is clear that this proposal must have been within the framework of the sub-legislative act provided for by ZUSB, which is an appropriate regulation. Only risk items could be taken into the range of bad credits, it is said, those items which were classified in groups D and E according to the risks, are said to be undertakings that are either already in bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings and undertakings that have not serviced their obligations for a long period of time. In exceptional circumstances, the sub-legislative act allowed even less risky items to be transferred if this was duly justified to consolidate the exposure or consolidate the risks associated with the management of individual items. As a rule, only bad loans were transferred to a bad bank or only Slovenian exposures were transferred. The exposure of Slovenian banks outside Slovenia to a bad bank has not been transferred. The exception is just a few items, Adria Bank Dunaj, which was asked by Mr Pogačnik – we will look back at why these proposals were approved by the Interdepartmental Commission. They were usually approved when it was an exposure to the committees held by mothers' banks and their daughters at the same time, so that this situation could be managed more easily. As regards the valuation methodology and these estimates, what are these transfer values, why these transfer values are slightly different from fair values. Methodologies are more possible here. In the main, the European Commission has determined the transfer value, but it also contains the State aid element, and therefore slightly deviates from those values which the bad bank has then also assessed as the recipient, as it will also have to assess their value on an ongoing basis whether it is increasing or decreasing. If we look at the banks, what those discounts were like. The average, mean carrying value for NLB was 27 % of the transferred gross portfolio, 37 % for NKBM, 37 % for Abank last year and 30% for Bank Celje. Thus, it can be said that the average carrying value of these claims is relatively low — 32 %, depending on the gross value of these claims. The study, mentioned by Dr Križanič, was an assessment of the producer of the study, this data slightly deviates from this, but is not significantly better, and it is true that in the case of Slovenia, the transfer values were among the lowest or discounts that were given to this transmission value in this case, and thus the aid granted to banks that have resolved their bad claims was the largest in the framework of an analysis made between similar institutions in the European Union. This transmission phase was said to have been relatively difficult already in this part when the values were evaluated and then also in the execution itself. In terms of how the instruments were then issued, the bonds, how the individual items were then transferred. In particular, when transferring bad loans or bad items, the most difficult stage of transfer is to transfer insurance. All the loans that the banks have made have such or different forms of insurance and the transfer of insurance means the admission of mortgages. If there are mortgages in land books, it means other legal tasks that may be difficult, sometimes taking place not only before Slovenian courts, but also in some other legal environment and other legal order. And this part, in fact, is a relatively demanding transfer in implementation itself, and then everything that is related to the management of these bad loans. However, the key part of management is mainly proper again control of insurance and then accounting interest and other accidents and all that is usually done in business banks by behind-the-clock services, so-called back-offs. And here I go on to what was also the question that the bad bank did not set up its own back-up service, because the back-up services in the banks already existed, which brought bad claims, and this part of the support functions are or were carrying on those banks that were transferring credits and therefore DUTB recognised to them part of the compensation for the management of these transactions. This goes also to the amount of costs or services that DUTB has recognised or paid to banks in part. However, it is clear in these costs of services, as reviewed by the KPK, also the type of other services that were linked to the business itself, to the establishment of the business of DUTB. This process is now being developed so that, in fact, for these back-up services, DUTB has decided not to establish them itself, because they require software, require certain investments that they consider to be pointless, and is now preparing the situation that for all DUTB exposures, for all investments this function will be carried out by one of the banks which is one of these two banks that are in controlled closure or liquidation, is Probanka, because it has been somehow estimated that the software platform has a relatively favourable and that it has a competent team that will do so effectively and will also have the specifics that DUTB has in its operation or in the management of these investments can be implemented quickly and efficiently. If the Government has an influence on the functioning of the DUTB, we have not opposed such solutions, I can say that, although the DUTB has its own decision-making bodies, it is autonomous and one of the principles of the functioning of the DUTB, such as an institution that has relatively high powers and is at the same time important in these economic restructuring processes, it is that it has adequate autonomy in decision-making, in the international business jargon it operates on the principle of arm's length, it is said on the principle that it takes decisions on its own and that the owners also directly in individual business decisions do not interfere with, but set objectives, framework for action and then follow how this is achieved. The key part that needs to be highlighted here in the functioning of such an institution is the recognition of losses. This is a key part of know-how in banking and is also a key part of the bad bank. Recognition of losses is something that is actually a more demanding part of the banking business. It's nice, I'd say, to work in this business or it's easy if you have good creditors or good debtors who hire and service it normally. It is significantly more difficult when problems arise in servicing, especially when other more coercive methods need to be used to recover funds that have been borrowed. And this recognition of losses is something that is in the Slovenian banking area, if we look at the banks in full, is lagging behind. The banks acted on the principle that they created investment weaknesses, that they created reservations, but did not actively solve these problems, they did not trigger executions actively enough, they did not go into active forms of restructuring of their debtors, but mainly waited. In this part, this recognition of losses by setting up a bad bank has practically passed to a bad bank, and this has somehow been the case for the managers in the banks receiving the measures, because the responsibility to recognise these losses has been strained. However, losses are recognised either by write-offs or by conversions of claims, especially in ways to keep debtors alive. It is said that there is the maximum possible effect in restructuring them or in returning at least something if they do not return everything already. These processes are also the most difficult in the Bank Claims Management Company. In the way in which the Banks Claims Management Company operates, it has clear objectives to repay to the State the public debt arising from the transfer of bad claims to the DUTB, which is reflected in the DUTB bonds issued. And that's why DUTB's actually spread between two goals. On the one hand, by selling the assets transferred to the DUTB, it serviced the public debt resulting from the transfer of bad credits and, on the other hand, what was also highlighted in the debates was that economic effects were achieved, as regards the effectiveness of restructuring companies in which they played either the creditor or, in some cases, the role of either the shareholder or the shareholders in such companies. Thus, in these parts, it is actually a decision on how restructuring plans are drawn up, how these plans are then implemented, what forms are implemented, how much further values can then be generated in these procedures, which then generates some positive effect. This is what management and the authorities of the bad bank must ensure in their work. And in this part, the amendment of the law will be supplemented and will also give greater emphasis to the active role of the DUTB in the restructuring of companies, and not only does the DUTB itself, but the DUTB also organises other creditors, especially banks and other types of creditors. However, as far as this part of the restructuring in Slovenia is concerned, if we compare it, the Government is also very much following the recommendations of the European Commission, not only procedurally, procedurally, as is usually seen by the rule of law, but also substantively. In the 50 major restructuring cases of the largest companies that have undergone restructuring of their financial liabilities in the financial sector, we have a situation where these companies are owed 3.5 billion euros, completed restructuring procedures or those which are just before completion have been converted to capital or cancelled only 10 % of their liabilities. What is less, if compared with similar processes, with institutions elsewhere in Europe, is that these processes are, in fact, insufficiently effective and lead to these financial restructurings being first chained and that one, for example, forced settlement is not sufficient or out-of-court settlement, that it needs to be repeated, that things are too slow and that, in fact, they are not very effective as far as these processes are concerned. We will also be able to explain this further later. As regards the active role of the Ministry in influencing the functioning of the DUTB, it is appropriate to first clarify the business report for 2013. The business report was produced, submitted, dealt with by the Government, had a number of issues and had the business report completed. The addition was made, additional explanations were given, they were not an integral part of the editorial, of the writing and we requested that the printing be made and that the printing of the audit view be also made. This is also said to be the written business report by a commercial auditor, this is the company, I think KPMG issues an audit opinion. Although the audit opinion was issued without reservation, first we wanted this to be done again. And the additional extensions and clarifications requested by the Government are now included in the annual report. Clearly, though, some things cannot be changed in return. If there has been so much and so much used for certain services, this can be further explained in this report why such costs have been. But it can't be changed back. The key argument of the DUTB Management Board is that there was a relatively large number of advisory services in 2013, since the company did not yet have regular employees or a minimum number of employees in 2013 and that virtually all the tasks related to the establishment of the institution to start working were carried out by external operators, partly by later directors or key staff, who, before becoming employed in the DUTB or taking over the functions of that company in the Management Board, did so under the consultation contracts. Another very large part of the costs is related to legal tasks relating to the transfer of insurance by credit, which are linked to various legal activities where they are generally used, as banks do, in most parts of the law firm, notaries, part of the legal team has also established the DUTB itself, which are generally services that are generally more expensive in the part where public procurement is to be carried out, these things are established. However, KPK had a number of reservations. As far as 2013 is concerned, there were certain risks or conflicts of interest here. The work of the DUTB shall be monitored in such a way as to establish monthly work reporting, progress on all key items managed by the DUTB and, in particular, monthly reports on all notices or procedures initiated on irregularities identified in the resolution of those claims. The DUTB is also consulted on the combination of measures, where there are several stakeholders in these processes, we have situations where there is a need for restructuring or whether there is a need for a state debt, a tax debt or some other agreed debt, after the decision of the DUTB. So that some first priority would be given transparency, transparency about their work, and cooperation at the same time. As regards the decision-making of the sales of the assets held by the DUTB, these sales decisions are autonomous. They shall be accepted by the DUTB Management Board. The Management Board shall be a single management body. There are three executive directors and four non-executive directors. For once, foreigners, four, and three are Slovenian citizens. From the very beginning, the structure of the establishment was such that these decision-making processes moved slightly from Slovenian circles and that the institution avoided conflicts of interest. It should be pointed out that some restructuring procedures are then in the next stages, especially when sales are, in the first phase, financial restructuring, reprogramming of credits and so on, when sales occur, exposures occur, then the entry of new owners. So it must be very well understood that in some cases restructuring procedures are also difficult from this point of view because there is a change of ownership controls in companies. One of the professors is in one of the last issues of the Bank's newspaper, and I can quote him, Dr. Simoneti wrote: "The restructuring in Slovenian circumstances takes place in a rather brutal way." The brutal way in which companies, whether financial debts or other liabilities, have to restructure is not only under the great pressure of their creditors, but through these processes, the property ownership of these companies is very often effectively changed. One such example that we all know is, for example, the ACH, which is on whether it is believed that the new owner will manage a group of companies or assets better than the current one or what will be the effects in the case of the sale of such assets. It is said that decisions are difficult, multi-layered and that, in this respect, at least the Ministry of Finance considers that a single management system in this work is better than a two-tier one because it integrates the role of executive management and supervisors and, on the other hand, gives a greater opportunity to the State, the owner, to at least set gauges and influences on the key objectives of the operation of this institution. As far as business objectives are concerned, these are already written in the law itself and in all acts, in particular management policies and guidelines for action. The first objective is to recover the funds that the State has invested or which it will make with the issue of bonds. There is little simplification in public understanding that these funds come into the budget. The assets realised by DUTB by the sale of bonds shall be returned to the recipients of the bonds. These are business banks that have brought bad assets. It is said that, in essence, the result of a bad bank will be measured by how quickly it will sell funds, in order to service its obligations under the bonds issued, and that it will not be possible for these liabilities to be financed by the State on the basis of the cashing of guarantees, since these bonds all have the State guarantee. Therefore, the objective is to sell 10% of its portfolio per year. In some parts it is easier to do this, in other parts, where a large part of the real estate portfolio is very difficult, the processes are longer and more difficult. The DUTB portfolio, as it has been transferred, is atypical for comparable institutions of bad banks established in Europe. In most cases, European bad banks were involved in or transferred to real estate portfolios. In our case, these portfolios are significantly more diverse and are, above all, more illiquid. From this point of view, the objective of 10-purchase, the sale of asset items is demanding and achieved in 2014 and, as is now the case in the 2015 business plan, in the proposal, will also be achieved. It is said that we can assess that there is no immediate danger that state guarantees will have to be cashed to service the obligations of DUTB issued bonds. The next objective is to actively restructure businesses in these major cases under way. The biggest case that leads and where the organisation of other banks is restructuring is the case with Cimosa. There are, however, some other companies, including such larger companies, which are very important employees with broader functions. We can say that, according to the DUTB Ministry's assessment of these important cases, these tasks are relatively solid, they are always risk-related and there is always a dilemma or maximisation of profits, or in essence the goal of recognizing or maintaining economic activity, while at the same time requiring recognition of the majority of losses that occur in these cases if not only the objective of maximising the economic value by sale is to be met. In this work, the Ministry has been very intensive in its communication and working methods with the DUTB. We have twice a month's operational meetings, every other Friday of the month, which lasts about two hours, where we look at such systemic aspects of action, what obstacles to legislation, then the participation of a country where the country also participates or other institutions where there are systemic legal problems to some operational issues. We had a fairly large operational issue, which was related to the fact that part of the portfolio transferred to the DUTB was secured by state guarantees issued in 2009, 2010 and was also a cashier of state guarantees, so we had to find solutions to actually protect the DUTB and the budget at the same time. Then there are situations where either DUTB or SDH have to take on the role of active operators in the restructuring processes where the equity or capital shares are consolidated. And that must be coordinated. There are still a number of similar situations. So we have active communication with this institution, as far as business plans themselves, acts and means of implementation are concerned. The most sensitive is the remuneration policy, which has also been very exposed by the public. We have presented to the government a new remuneration policy, which was discussed at the first stage, not yet established at this time, as it is also assessed the need for the structure of the board of directors of the bad bank to be complemented or partially modified and further consultations and discussions are under way. However, it will not be misunderstood, not within the coalition, because all of these functions are mainly professional functions, but mainly in how to maintain foreigners, in this way control within this management board of DURB has somehow shifted on the side of Slovenian citizens or foreigners. The current team of non-executive directors considers that it can only function independently if they somehow have most voting rights in this board of directors, but that increased participation of Slovenians can be followed by consequences linked to the possible political impact on their functioning. I can say that the composition of the Governing Board is composed of respected international experts who have performed similar tasks elsewhere in other countries, and we think that their decisions or contributions have been very decisive for the institution to be properly established, and there is that part of the negative image that was formed in the public eye, which relates to the level of their revenues. When we go back, how the contracts with them were concluded, who approved these incomes, we can also see from the papers at what stage, when this was decided and formalized. And now we are on the point that we need to harmonise and that this part of the award, which has in fact shaped the largest negative image of this institution in the public eye, is properly standardised. Special emphasis should be placed on avoiding conflicts of interest, as Mrs Škopac Maruša mentioned. The basic principle in these transactions is not to sell the assets to the debtors themselves. The debtor himself can never directly exercise the right to a discount, that is the basic rule, and the conflicts of interest of the connected person are examined. This is also a principle that generally applies in banking, so is a discount or some discount on the value of the item can only be obtained by someone who is a completely new, new holder, a new owner. And in this part, particular attention is paid precisely to checking that conflicts and conflicts of interest do not exist and that all these elements are eliminated if any indications are made that they could, I would say, be caused by re-entering the contractual relationship of the old owners or the basic debtors, always deviate from such transactions and not only as a rule. This is one of the basic rules in their operations and is also an integral part of the policies or guidelines for the functioning and principles of the functioning of this institution. I would like to conclude with this, the mission of this institution, such as DUTB, is very complex. Regrettably, a negative public opinion has been drawn up, resulting from this initial period, which will need to be corrected. I wouldn't go too far back as to how the claims were transferred, why they were transferred, this part has now been examined by the Court of Auditors. While the findings of the Court of Auditors have not yet been made public, we have also done a lot in December and early January with communication with the Court of Auditors, which assessed not only the operations of the DUTB but also the measures fully to ensure the stability of banks, the way in which bad claims are transferred, the role of all institutions, the role of the Interdepartmental Commission. I think that was largely explained. Further functioning of this institution, whose role is in fact two-layer or very complex, is particularly important to ensure that it is able to participate effectively in the restructuring of the economy and to provide public funding objectives. However, the public funding objective is to generate a return comparable to that of similar institutions elsewhere in Europe, and, secondly, to capital, which has been paid to the DUTB at EUR 200 million, to create a return comparable to that of similar institutions elsewhere in Europe – once again, the strategy envisages that this return should be 8 %, and certainly eliminate any additional risks that would be in any way linked to the operation of this company and the management of these items. It is also worth saying that, in the course of 2014, on the basis of the measures carried out in the Bank, in the Bank of Celje, DUTB took over additional assets from these banks as part of the measures for these banks, took over additional assets from the Bank's Factor, from Probank, out of the state aid processes by market principles, and will likely conclude the liquidation of these two banks in such a way that the remainder of the portfolio, which the temporary administration of these two banks will not be able to cash, will also go to some stage to this institution, which is actually specialized in managing this portfolio. The Ministry of Finance and the Government are working very hard to establish a standard of governance and governance, which is at the level of managing similar institutions in Europe, to share best practices. However, the key issues are the question of how the values of the items were determined and how the approval of State aid was agreed for banks that were granted measures outside the decision-making processes of Slovenia. The values of these items, as underlined, have been determined by the European Commission. We can say that for the NLB, the Commission itself has been making a valuation or setting a transfer value and has benefited from the valuation services of Roland Berger, as Professor Križanič mentioned. While the valuations of the transferred items for NKBM and Abanka and the valuations for the commission, not for the Government or for the Bank of Slovenia, were by Ernst & Young. As far as transfer values are concerned, Banka Slovenije will have to be fully transferred. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u105	Thank you. I also give the floor to the representative of the Magi's proposal. Mark Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u106	Madam President, thank you for your word. As a proposal, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the comprehensive answers he has given us. The views of the parliamentary groups are clear. I would like to thank you for your support in these recommendations and I think it is important that all these requirements are also made known to the National Assembly. At this point it is probably one of the most important institutions in Slovenia, which will have an impact both on the development of the banking system and in particular on the development of the economy. The only thing I would say to the distinguished Secretary of State is that, if the Government or the Ministry of Finance is not directly responsible for the operation of this company, I also agree, somehow, because it has an administrative committee to do so, I think that it must assume indirect responsibility in the functioning of this company. I think it makes sense that all these unresolved questions relating to the functioning of the Banks Claims Management Company should be answered as soon as possible, from advisory services to other matters. Finally, the Bank Claims Management Company proposed bankruptcy of one of the major Slovenian companies and then the court annulled the proceedings. And here, I mean, someone will have to take responsibility if it turns out that these procedures were unjustifiable. Regardless of your explanations regarding cooperation with Probank, I personally believe that a number of questions are raised here whether this manoeuvre is meaningful or not or whether the Bank's Claims Management Company will explain in more detail what services this bank provides for them. I repeat, in the vote tomorrow, I expect Members of the groups to support these recommendations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u107	Thank you. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. A request has been made. If you would like to discuss the representative of the proposer and the representative of the Government, please apply by raising your deadlines. I'm asking you to sign up. The debater has five minutes of time available. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u108	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I will be very brief; I would also like to welcome and express my gratitude to the Secretary of State, Mr Dragoni, for the correct comments and answers to the questions that have already been raised. At this point, I would also like to call on the Management Board of Bank Claims and point out that the legislator has practically given them a very good tool and we want members of the National Assembly, which we have adopted in the Act on Measures to Enhance Bank Stability, that this tool, which is also used by the Management Board of the Banks Claims Management Company, is used. I would like to recall once again Article 33 of the Act, which refers to the responsibility of the members of the bank management and supervision bodies and the supervisory authorities of the banks. This Article states: "Members of the Management Board of the Banks Claims Management Company shall be liable to any suspicion of a criminal offence, to the criminal conduct of members of the management bodies and members of the supervisory authorities of the banks and to the supervisory authorities of the banks that are familiar with the management of their employment, in particular when reviewing the credit cards referred to in Article 11, paragraph 9, of this Law, immediately inform the competent authorities accordingly." Second paragraph: "The suspension of the duty referred to in the preceding paragraph shall be regarded as a reasonable reason for the dismissal or termination of the employment relationship for false reasons." And the last, third paragraph, is very important, which refers to outdated deadlines: "No matter the provisions of the law governing offences, and the law governing bond relations, criminal offences and liability of members of the bank management and supervisory authorities and bank supervision authorities who receive measures under this law arising due to or in connection with the performance of the function of a member of the management or control authority and of the supervisory authority of banks or of a designated company which is granted measures under this law, shall expire within an extended period of four times the general statutes of limitation as provided for by the law governing criminal offences and the law governing the bonding regime." This seems to me to be a very important tool, which is probably, as I have already said, stabbed the signatories to the referendum request when we had an unaltered constitution regarding the referendum. And it must have been this article, Article 33 of the Law, that caused some to fear in their bones that they were going to collect signatures to call for a referendum. And then, thank God, the Constitutional Court rejected this case. I agree here with the State Secretary's comment on the composition of the Management Board of the Company for the Enforcement of Bank Claims, i.e. the generally most responsible in this society, that consideration should be given to how to put the most responsible people in order to be as less susceptible to the influence of politics. And here, despite the fact that it is clear that I am rooting for the Slovenians, I actually have to put myself on the side of foreign experts, where there is probably less likelihood of a political impact on the operations of the Bank Claims Management Company. In fact, I would have a question, I don't know if the Secretary of State still has a chance to answer. The fact is that in the second half of December, the Government had already received the Court's audit report on the functioning of the Bank's Claims Management Society in 2013, which identified certain irregularities, as already announced by the Finance Minister Dr. Marble, who also said that they compared the Court of Auditors' audit and the Commission's report on anti-corruption and agreed on what measures would be most appropriate. Mr Štefanec also said that although corruption did not detect that there were quite a few corruption risks. I'm here to see if there's any specific government action.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u109	Thank you. I conclude the general debate. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposed to the National Assembly a further proposal for a decision that did not include amendments. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will decide on the updated proposal for a decision on Friday, 30. 1. 2015, in the context of the votes This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. At the time of the day, this is to the defence of the proposal recommended in connection with procedures for remedying illegality in the work of the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office. The proposal for a recommendation was tabled by a group of nineteen Members and Members, with Mr Jozet Tank, the first to be signed. Regarding this proposal, the Group of Nineteen Members and Members, with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u110	Madam Vice President! If there was a representative of the radical political left at this point, I'd insult you. That's why I'm not gonna say it. But I wanted to remind you that you allowed me to be insulted a little earlier. I will present a request for consideration of the item on the agenda, namely the issue of the elimination of illegality in the work of the Office of the Attorney General. At ten o'clock this morning, I listened to Radio Slovenia, and there they also said that today we will discuss this item of the agenda and say that it is an alleged illegality seen by the SDS. Of course, according to what they are doing, not only the SDS, they also see the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia, which has also found this physically in the form of a decision. But if you allow me to make a little more detailed in the time available to me, I'll tell you, but here's the thing. You know that just before the end of each government, one way or another, the public is aware that there are some personnel that are not supposed to happen. If this comes in the judiciary, then it's even worse. One day before the arrest, a typical case of political corruption of political recruitment at the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office, which was illegal, occurred before the Janša government took office in 2012. I do not speak unlawfully, so wrote the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia. So I'm using my court ruling. By the way, what happened? At that time, Justice Minister Aleš Zalar, in agreement with Chief State Prosecutor Fischer, simply hired Mr Škrlec's Secretary of State in the post of Director General of the State Attorney's Office, who was created in law a few months earlier. This means that the job was created by law and, of course, the policy of Mr Boštjan Škrlec, the so-called State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, has been allocated to this job. In a government where I would have been in charge of the prosecution at the time, we immediately suspected, and in particular, the Secretary of State, who was an expert in this area, warned me that there were irregularities in this appointment. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia cancelled this appointment two months later. So Mr Boštjan Škrlec was no longer the Director-General of the State Prosecutor's Office. But he complained. He appealed to the Administrative Court, which found that the Government was right and that there was a link between former Justice Minister Aleš Zalar and Attorney General Fischer to, as they said, the suspicion of corruption, conflicts of interest or they wrote down literally such that it was when they decided that it was 'voluntary exercise of power'. It means that two officials, the Minister of Justice and the Attorney-General of the State committed their will to exercise authority and abused the law to appoint Mr Škrlec to such a responsible position. Of course, he complained. He complained to the Administrative Court and the Administrative Court subsequently annulled this, as we have said here. Mr. Fisher said he put things back together, according to his household. This is so beautifully said that you wash yourself, but it has no real basis or reality in all of this. What happened later? The Anti-Corruption Commission has also dealt with this same case for the time taken by the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The Anti-Corruption Commission has found that there is a suspicion of corruption and a conflict of interest. So we already have another institution that has found that there is a suspicion of corruption and a conflict of interest. However, you are not aware of this decision because you must not be. Why should you not be familiar or familiar? Because Aleš Zalar, former Justice Minister, triggered an administrative dispute. And you will not believe it, the Administrative Court did not give him the right, but the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia kept the matter to a final decision. And this retention to a final decision continues today. And it's been 14 months. There's only one thing I can conclude from this. That the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia protects the former Minister of Justice and protects the Attorney General. Because he doesn't decide. The Justice Minister said on the committee that he was grappling or asking, as he said, at the Supreme Court: What are you doing? Have you done anything about this?" And he was promised that the case would end in December 2014. We are now ahead of the February 2015 threshold and there is no decision. From this we can conclude that the Supreme Court is still protecting illegality, stressing illegality, no alleged illegality or illegality seen by the SDS in the opinion of Radio Slovenia 1 but protecting the illegalities found by the Administrative Court. And the thing has two dimensions. The first dimension is that the supervision of the operation of the State Prosecutor's Office has already been introduced by Minister Plitschanič in this same case. Of course, it took officials six, seven months to get the job done. And between September and December of last year, this business was also completed. At the time we were preparing this request, we did not know what the results were. However, the Ministry of Justice, according to a statement made to the public last week, found the same as the Administrative Court. So it was about the appointment of Mr Skrlec for illegality, i.e. irregularities and illegality. We already have another body, besides the Administrative Court, we also have the Ministry of Justice, which finds that it was an illegal appointment. Let's move on. There's a lot of organs in our country, and when they get involved, then it's pretty hard if they do their job right. This is also the work of the Administrative Inspectorate. The administrative inspection that she sent, according to the information they gave, to Mr Fisher, this was in the middle of last year to provide information on the appointment of Mr Škrlec. You know what Mr. Fisher said? "No, I won't send." So he resisted without a legal basis, that's clear, and he doesn't want to give data to an administrative inspection or an inspector. To delay matters, he then turned to the Justice Department and said, "Is it my duty to give this information and is this inspection also responsible for controlling us?" I think the Ministry of Justice has responded correctly or reacted correctly and has said that it must provide this information. On the committee last week, we were told that now the inspection has again asked Mr Fischer to provide information on this same matter. And the inspection will decide. When it is. But what's interesting is that the inspectors say they have a lot of work to do. This request was accepted one year and one month ago. So it's a decision to go into this control. And the interesting thing is that it takes almost eight months to get the procedure started. But of course because they say they have a lot of work to do. However, I must say that last May they accepted some anonymity about some alleged illegal recruitment in the Cabinet of the Minister of Home Affairs at the time that I led the matter myself, and, you will not believe, one month after that, they were at work. I was obviously a priority. But Mr. Fisher is not a priority. But good. They did their job properly, and I'm grateful to them, and they found that in my office, in my time, there was no illegality. If I sum it up, I'll put it this way. Our proposals for conclusions were rejected on the Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, here in the middle and left of me, although the conclusions were relatively correct, the conclusions were that we were aware that the Administrative Court had said that Mr Fisher and Mr Zalar had recruited illegally. You weren't ready to support that. I think it's a very bad situation when we put our heads in the sand and into the judiciary, especially in this case, in today's case, I am speaking, of course, of course, about the prosecution and Mr Fischer, who was not on the committee. And you won't believe it, he wrote, "I won't attend." I would expect the leadership of the National Assembly and the President, I think he's with us now to respond to such a letter. Yeah, then if he says, "I won't come to the National Assembly," analogously, if we divide power into legislative, judicial, executive, then any of us calm souls can say, "I won't attend, I won't come to the interview if some prosecutor asks me to do something." Yes, with exactly the same right. However, I do not invite you to do this, but I urge you to respond in such cases to the leadership of the National Assembly and to give him a very clear answer that he is obliged to come, but nothing else. And he says, "I'm not coming." If I finish. We have two institutions that have found illegality in appointing Mr Škrlec to the post of Director-General of the State Attorney's Office. It's not a little joke. It's not small, but it's a big problem. These two institutions, which have found illegality, are the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia, we probably have to respect the court decisions or whatever, and on the other hand this is the supervision of the Ministry of Justice, which has made almost identical observations, so the Ministry's representatives have said. On the third page, we have in this same case the Supreme Court, which has been blocking the case for 14 months. And in the fourth case, we have Mr. Fisher who doesn't want to give data to the Administrative Inspectorate. He won't give us the data. By the way, when we dealt with the so-called disappearances of signatures and also interpretations against me in the State Assembly, when it was already in 2012, the end of the year, the four institutions carried out their work within fourteen days. And here the Supreme Court has been dragging, like I said, for 14 months now, and Mr. Fisher says, "I'm not giving the data to the inspection services, I'm not giving it." So if the National Assembly allows someone to say, "I will not give any data", then tomorrow we will witness the collapse of the system, because all inspection services will receive from the persons or bodies they investigate such a response "no data given". I think that the matter is alarming from this point of view and the National Assembly should actually accept some conclusions, it had to adopt some conclusions which, of course, were not confirmed by the coalition on the committee. And if necessary, we'll repeat the drill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u111	The proposal for a recommendation was considered by the Committee on Justice as a parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of the Magi. Bojani Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u112	Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues and guests on stage! The Committee on Justice is at its fifth session. 1. 2015 as a parent working body, considered the proposal for a recommendation on procedures for the elimination of illegality in the work of the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office, submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members, with the first-signed Jozet Tank, and published on the website of the National Assembly. A further explanation on behalf of the applicant was given by Mr Vinko Gorenak and proposed the adoption of the relevant recommendations of the National Assembly to the Minister of Justice and the State Prosecutor's Council. In 2012, there was illegality in the appointment of Boštjan Škrlec to the post of Director-General of the State Attorney's Office, for which the current Minister of Justice, Aleš Zalar and the Attorney-General, Dr Zvonko Fischer, were responsible. The appointment took place just before the government of Prime Minister Janez Janša, in which Member Dr Vinko Gorenak serves as Minister for Home Affairs, also responsible for the State Prosecutor's Office. The government of Prime Minister Janez Janša has repealed the appointment decision. And against that, the tick triggered an administrative dispute. In its decision of December 2012, the Administrative Court stated that the case involved the illegal appointment and the will of Minister Zalar and Attorney General Fischer to exercise his authority. In this respect, Dr. Gorenak, as Minister of the Interior, ordered supervision of the conduct of matters of the State Prosecutor's Office at the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office. Following the change of government, Justice Minister Senko Plicanić cancelled the said surveillance and re-ordered it only in April 2014 and was carried out in autumn 2014. The findings of the monitoring group, according to the applicant, are not yet known. The procedure was also initiated by the Anti-Corruption Commission in 2012 because of suspicion of corruption and a conflict of interest in this appointment, but the publication of its findings by the Supreme Court was suspended, which the applicant considers to be a deliberate delay. At the beginning of 2014, the public sector inspectorate was also launched, which, according to the job proposal, cannot be completed because the Attorney General, Dr Fischer, does not wish to provide him with the necessary information. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service presented their written legal opinion and said that the substance of point 1 was a finding of certain facts. Points 2, 3 and 4 propose that the National Assembly adopt the decisions already taken by other competent authorities, which it considers to be controversial in terms of the principle of the rule of law and the principle of the division of power, as it could also be understood as a possibility of denying those decisions. According to the Legislative and Legal Service's assessment, the 5th point is also disputed, since the National Assembly should not assess the work of other State bodies by recommending it, but could also constitute an intervention in the area of judicial administration and thereby an overriding of the powers of the National Assembly. The 6th point entrusts the Minister of Justice and the State Prosecutor's Council with tasks not within their competence but within the powers of the Public Sector Inspectorate, which could also lead to unacceptable influence. The 7th point, contrary to the business provisions in the recommendation of the Minister of Justice and the State Prosecutor's Council, calls for the initiation of a procedure for the discharge of the Attorney General. Minister of Justice Mag. Goran Klemenčič presented the Government's written opinion and explained that in the process of appointing Boštjan Škrlec, an illegal situation had indeed been established by that decision of the Administrative Court, but its consequences had already been remedied. The supervision of the Ministry of Justice is also completed, and the findings of the supervisory group are similar to those of the Administrative Court. With regard to the anti-corruption procedure before the Commission, which was launched by the President at the time of its initiation, he said that it had been initiated on the basis of the application of the current State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior of Barbara Brezigar, but had been suspended by the Supreme Court before the final decision had been issued, which was expected to take its decision by the end of 2014. With regard to the supervision of the Public Sector Inspectorate, he explained that the applicant’s arguments that the Attorney General does not wish to provide the requested data are not accurate, as the deadlines for their intervention are still running. It was pointed out in the debate that the pending procedures were being dealt with and that they were, at least, premature. On the contrary, the rapporteurs who proposed the recommendation felt that the findings of the State authorities had already been obtained as an indication that fundamental changes were needed in the area of the Public Prosecutor's Office. They also expressed their protest at the failure of the Attorney General to participate in the Committee's meeting and the indications in his written communication which I had called for in accordance with the business arrangements. The Committee did not adopt the amendment of the SDS Group to point 7 below, and the amendment of the SDS Group to point 6 was withdrawn. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the Committee voted on the individual points of the Proposal for a Recommendation and adopted none. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u113	For an introductory explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Mr Dark Staret.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u114	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! With regard to the proposal for a recommendation on procedures for the elimination of illegality in the work of the High Prosecutor's Office submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members, I would like to take a brief look at or present the opinion of the Government, which is an integral part of the material. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia first notes that the first points make recommendations for the State Assembly to take decisions by individual bodies, both courts and the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, which are essentially independent bodies. In this regard, it is important to stress that the decisions of the State authorities as such must be respected and additional confirmations or subsequent acceptances by the National Assembly or by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the view of the Government. With regard to the abolition of illegality in the work of the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office, the appointment of Mr Boštjan Škrlec as Director-General of the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office is highlighted. Mr Škrlec was appointed by decision of the Minister of Justice in 2012. This decision was subsequently repealed by a decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at the time when Minister Gorenak was Minister for the violation of substantive and procedural law, which confirmed subsequently, as already mentioned, the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The illegal situation was thus eliminated and was later appointed by a decision of the State Prosecutor's Council, i.e. an independent body within the framework of the State Prosecutor's Office or the judicial branch of power assigned to the same or the same position, i.e. to serve as the Director-General of the State Prosecutor's Office. According to the nature of the matter and taking into account the already implemented elimination of identified illegalities or irregularities in the appointment of possible measures of work under Article 111, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is not possible for the Government to define that for reasons that they have already been implemented. With regard to the procedure for appointing Mr Škrlec as Director-General, he was, on the basis of a decision taken by Mr Senk Plitčanić at the time of 10. 9. 2014 to 12. 11. In 2014, when Mr Klemenčič had already taken over the administration of the Ministry of Justice, he had direct judicial supervision of the conduct of matters of the State Prosecutor's Office in the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office. It follows from the report of the independent commission which carried out this oversight, inter alia, that, in relation to the procedures for the employment of the Director-General, an irregular procedure or an irregular and unauthorised appointment has been found in essence, as the Administrative Court has also found. With regard to the irregularity in question, it was also found that it had already been remedied or abolished because, on the basis of a proposal from the Attorney-General of the State, the competent Ministry of the Interior then issued a public invitation to the Office of the Attorney-General to the Office of the Attorney-General for the performance of this function, i.e. the Director-General of the State Prosecutor. And on the basis of a proposal from the State Prosecutor's Council, as has already been said, Mr Boštjan Škrlec was then re-appointed. In view of the content of the proposal, it recommended that the National Assembly invite the Minister of Justice and the State Prosecutor's Council to take all necessary steps to ensure that the necessary information is immediately transmitted to the Public Administration Inspectorate, however, the Government points out that two separate independent procedures have been carried out, namely the judicial review procedure referred to in the recitals and the inspection. At the request of the inspectorate, the Ministry of Justice has taken a position, as Mr Gorenak has said today, that there are two independent procedures which have different legal bases and whose findings also have different legal consequences, which, according to the Ministry of Justice, are possible to carry out both at the same time and at the same time. With regard to the content of the proposal, it recommended that the National Assembly invite the Minister of Justice and the State Prosecutor's Council to initiate procedures for the discharge of the Attorney-General, Dr. Zvonk Fischer, but the Government points out that the illegal situation has been established by a decision of the Administrative Court, but as already mentioned, it has also been repealed and therefore that decision of the Administrative Court has already been taken into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u115	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the SMC Group, for which Dr. Jasna Murgel.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u116	Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Today we are talking about another proposal from the same parliamentary group that the National Assembly decide to find out something about the work of other state bodies or institutions or to recommend something to them. What the National Assembly can do on the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly or what it can recommend to other bodies or institutions is clearly defined in Article 111 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which reads as follows: "With recommendation, the National Assembly shall propose measures for the work of public authorities, institutions and individuals performing public services or exercising public powers." It is essential in all this debate, which has already taken place on the Committee on Justice, that the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, in its opinion on the proposed recommendation, has already found that it contains shortcomings or inconsistencies. As already mentioned in the report of the Committee on Justice, the Rule of Law on the first point of the proposal concluded that it was a proposal to establish the existence of certain facts and that this could not be a proposal for a recommendation under Article 111 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Therefore, the State cannot establish certain facts in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The second and fourth points of the proposal contain a proposal for the adoption of decisions by the Administrative Court and the Commission to prevent corruption, which, according to the Legislative and Legal Service, is not only a proposal for measures for the work of other bodies, but also cannot be subject to a recommendation, but is also controversial from the point of view of the division of power. If such a recommendation had been adopted, they would have intervened in the competence of other branches of government. The legislative and legal service on the fifth point of the recommendation notes that it is controversial because the recommendation cannot assess the work of other national authorities. With regard to the seventh point, the Legislative and Legal Service has found that it is composed in the form of an appeal, which is contrary to the Rules of Procedure, and that the National Assembly can only recommend to someone what to do, even if the principle of the division of power is respected. We have heard that the Committee on Justice has recommended and rejected the findings, but today we are again considering them at the plenary session, despite being rejected by the Committee on Justice. We are considering them because this is how the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly stipulate that they must be dealt with. However, the proposaler is still too well aware that this topic will be dealt with here once again despite the rejection. We are therefore dealing again with something that, according to the Legislative Service, which was proposed by the parliamentary group that proposed these conclusions and recommendations, in another case numbered so, but this time does not respect that these recommendations are not in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Colleagues and colleagues, I believe that it is necessary to explain to the voters today, once again, that we are talking again about a matter that we have discussed on the Committee on Justice and that we have already discussed on this Committee and on the Commission on Human Rights three similar proposals from the Group of Members, which have been inconsistent with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We discussed them at the home body and then again despite the rejection at the plenary session of the National Assembly. What is the common denominator for these recommendations? The subject of these recommendations, which should not at all be in accordance with the rules of procedure, is the judiciary, or the court, and now the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office. The attempt to use the Rules of Procedure in contravention of its purpose constitutes an unacceptable intervention in the independence of the Attorney General's Office, such as the previous proposals have been inadmissible in judicial proceedings. Therefore, the debate on such proposals is irrelevant and we are wasting time with it. However, we believe that there is something else to be pointed out in this context. It is important that voters who may still be watching us on television know that the consideration of recommendations and even the finding of facts cannot be avoided, namely those who do not wish to discuss it because they are irrelevant and do not need to be discussed because they are contrary to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. If the parliamentary group, under Article 48(2) of the Rules of Procedure, proposes to convene an urgent meeting of the working body, in this case the Committee on Justice, the Chairperson of the Committee shall convene a meeting to deal with such a proposal if he meets the formal conditions. Therefore, Members, who do not want to participate in the fruitless debate on an imaginary problem, must participate in the meeting of the committee of which we are members, as this is our work obligation. Yes, you'll say we could obstruct this meeting. The SMC Group has only done this once, except for the fact that we believe that we must participate in democratic dialogue in the National Assembly and this is the fundamental purpose of Parliament and that we will fulfil it. If this is also a proposal that, as the Legislative and Legal Service has determined, is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we must take part in its consideration, as we must respect the Rules of Procedure. However, this means that we are wasting our time and that one, as many would agree, means money. We could decide important matters, not matters that we cannot or are not competent to decide. Therefore, we have already rejected the SMC proposal and the conclusions already on the Committee on Justice and we categorically reject it now. Colleagues and colleagues, I call on you to focus on the consideration of the laws introduced by the Ministry of Justice in the legislative process. We have plenty of time, because the next regular meeting of the National Assembly will be held in March. Since the Ministry of Justice is also preparing other more extensive legislative proposals on justice, we will have many opportunities to focus on the debate on the solutions to problems that exist in the judiciary, no one denies it, but then we use energy to find solutions, not on some proposals that, as the Legislative and Legal Service has found, are contrary to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u117	The word is given by the SDS Group of Members, for her mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u118	Good day to all and a nice greeting also on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors! Whoever has read the Slovenian Constitution knows that the Slovenian Parliament, i.e. the National Assembly, has several important tasks arising from the Constitution. In addition to the legislative and task of appointing the Government and all other officials under its responsibility, it also has a statutory control function, which is at least as important as the first two. Thus, the complete nonsense and ignorance of the Constitution is any claim that the National Assembly should not, or could not, speak about any important area of the Slovenian State, Slovenian society, give recommendations and an assessment of the situation in that area. Whoever claims this not only has no idea of the Slovenian Constitution, but also does not know what democracy is. Democracy is based on the balance between the different branches of government and every authority, of course each branch has the opportunity and opportunity to speak about others in certain cases, and on the basis of the Constitution and other principles of the rule of law it can also directly interfere with the powers of others, each in its own way. For example, the National Assembly may adopt legislation in the field of the judiciary, the Constitutional Court, for example, that any law may be rejected, and so on, not to mention. That should be clear to everyone. However, that the National Assembly should not talk about anything, this claim is at least as unconstitutional as it is ridiculous at the same time. You know, I would very much like to ask you to go once – and I can take you down there because I am always lonely – to the library of the National Assembly, where the book that talks about constitutional law is a textbook of the constitutional law of the Slovenian University, which beautifully states that it is whether anything in the field of the judiciary, even the judgments, is also discussed in politics, even in the National Assembly, if you like, even the criteria of the democracy of a country. So, those of you who object to this, you have very serious problems with the notion of democracy. And I really recommend this textbook. As for the problems of democracy, they are obviously not only the National Assembly, or one of its parts which challenges the right of the National Assembly to make assessments and recommendations to other institutions of this country, but obviously, unfortunately, also the Government. It's a little worse. What have we received today from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at this speaking desk, and earlier in writing, in response to the recommendation on procedures for the abolition of legality in the work of the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office? The process, as you may have heard and as the Government has acknowledged, has made it very clear, if we go through his history, that there have been obvious irregularities. The judicial branch of power has already ruled on this in one instance, and it has found out, and someone else has. And then some other procedure that's started as an exception takes 14 months. And in the Balkan language, "nothing." What does the government say? It's all been fixed. Wait, wait, wait, wait! All those responsible for the initial situation and for this delay are still in office today. And the government says everything's fine. Then give them another lollipop! And if we expand this a little bit further, anyone who, according to the new state, is going to break the law or drive too fast or steal anything, they're probably going to get a new lollipop from this government, and it's going to be said, it's all been fixed. If the procedures are delayed long enough, there will never be an end. It is precisely the government, ladies and gentlemen who should take the first step to ensure that the judicial proceedings do not go on indefinitely. This is not just the opinion of us in the SDS, sorry, we are already reminded of this for years by the European institutions in their regular recommendations. Due to endlessly long judicial proceedings, this country pays tens of thousands of euros each year, and the government says everything is saved, everything is fine. Wait, no one needs a government like that. Then such a government is in hiding for such a state. And then there's no wonder that the winged is already circling, that the government was falling apart before it even started its work, and that its only guide was the fate and space lost in space. The government, which is unable to provide within its competence, within its recommendations, its formal and informal possibilities influences to move things from a dead point, means, with each day of its existence, lost time, lost development, lost development opportunities for the state of Slovenia. Because he's holding the stallion for those who are stalling. In this case, the delay is obvious. And if everyone, who is responsible for their irregularities, remained in their positions or perhaps others have made progress, could also conclude from the material, and that all those who should take action in this case to complete the procedures remain in their positions, it is in fact a reward, which means that the crime or, if you wish, some outright illegality, which even the government itself recognises, is rewarded for a new reward. And that's the government's policy. Yeah, like I said, I'm just waiting for you to give someone else a lasagna for the prize, so they don't do their job, or they don't do it properly, or they don't do it legally, or they do it too slowly because they're stalling. And then we listen in this National Assembly, but when we propose that the National Assembly be very clear about this and make appropriate recommendations that this is a waste of time. Yes, of course, fellows! But your discussions in this direction are a waste of time because you don't understand why you're here at all. The National Assembly is obliged to act if it finds that, in some areas, things are not appropriate, it is obliged to adopt appropriate legislation, it is obliged to take measures under its jurisdiction. However, if he cannot do so, because in a given case it is a procedure of another branch of authority, he is obliged to at least make public the case if it goes beyond all borders and make recommendations. And that's exactly what we suggested. We have proposed appropriate recommendations to both directly involved and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. And what did the coalition do? Kind of ostrich, she's rejected everything, the conclusions are gone, so to speak, there's no problem for her. If one illegality has been established, if someone is clearly delaying a procedure, then there is no problem. And then we wonder if this country goes back from day to day. No one needs a government like that. It's not government. Sadly, though, this situation is then transferred to the National Assembly. And then there is no wonder that, of course, in the National Assembly, most of them insist that people have a negative attitude towards Parliament. For this is what it should be for, and in a normal country, the government is responsible, and by this you will take over. But then, ladies and gentlemen, don't ever say we're all the same again, because obviously we're not. Some warn that things are not appropriate. Some are alerted to illegality, some are cautioned not to take action in the face of detected illegalities, and some point to the fact that some procedures have been going on too long. This is what our mission is in the Slovenian Constitution, and you cannot deny it. And that is why we are here today and therefore remind you that a procedure of appointment has been carried out, which has apparently been illegal, and that there are indisputable findings, including by the competent court, that the findings of the competent commission on the reasonable suspicion of corruption which are not now available to the public have been made in this regard because someone else has intervened. And that this procedure has now been going on for fourteen months. I guess it's clear to each of us why. Because someone doesn't like it to end. But when it suits someone to finish it, let's say it was some sort of lawsuit by the Ljubljana mayor, but the verdict was legal within nine weeks because it was in his favor. And then before marriage, we're all the same. Yeah, come on, come on! Who else believes that in Slovenia?Oh, my God! And if this is the situation, ladies and gentlemen, then this National Assembly is obliged not only to speak very seriously about it, but also to very seriously demand action, in the first place from the Government, but also from all the other institutions of this country, to do their job and to move things from a dead city. For at the end of the day it is clear to everyone that these things, therefore lost time, cannot be recovered with anything, and that any lost time, including those by the current government, means lost development opportunities for the state of Slovenia. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, all the recommendations you have rejected have been justified. But your conduct is something that certainly cannot be honored to this National Assembly, and unfortunately not to the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u119	The text is given by the Desus Group, Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u120	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Respected and respected! In front of us is a set of recommendations regarding procedures for the elimination of illegality in the work of the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office, which they have prepared in the SDS. If we are more specific, it is judicial and inspection proceedings concerning the illegality of the appointment of Boštjan Škrlec as Director-General of the State Attorney's Office, and the final aim of the proposaler is to initiate proceedings for the discharge of Attorney General Zvonk Fischer. The decision of the Administrative Court three years ago is indisputable and its consequences have already been remedied. We also have completed control of the control group, and we are missing two key elements: this is one court case concerning the Commission's decision to prevent corruption and the Commission's decision to prevent corruption itself. The second element is not yet completed inspection. Therefore, these decisions are not yet known, nor are they public, so we cannot discuss them today. We do not want to judge the above-mentioned procedures in the Member States, nor do we want to judge whether it is possible to deal with the Attorney-General politically. The fact is that the proceedings in the Supreme Court are still ongoing and the inspection procedure is not yet completed, so we can only attach to the decision of the Committee on Justice that it is premature for the National Assembly to adopt any recommendations on the proposal in question. At the same time, we draw attention to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which states that the proposal that the National Assembly adopts decisions of another competent authority may be disputed in terms of the rule of law, Article 2 of the Constitution, and the principle of the division of power, as provided for in Article 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, since it may also constitute the possibility of denying the decision of another competent authority. The proposal is also controversial because the recommendation cannot assess the work of other state authorities. By approving the proposal, I would recommend that the National Assembly overstep its powers by interfering with the area of judicial administration under the jurisdiction of the Presidents of the Courts. Likewise, the Ministry of Justice and the State Prosecutor's Council cannot interfere with inspection procedures because this is not within their jurisdiction. Finally, we note the provisions of the Inspection Procedure Act. Procedures have not yet been completed, the recommendations are of a political nature and at the same time interfere with the principle of the division of power, so it is right, respectable that the mother's working body has rejected the proposal because it is not suitable for further consideration. The Desus Group will not support the recommendations proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u121	The word is sent by the SD Group, for her, mag. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u122	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! Given that the applicants of this meeting and the material preparers refer to the conduct of the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office and the Ministry of Justice at the beginning of 2012, it is right to recall the 54th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly from the previous reference. On 7 February, Members and Members addressed the item entitled "Proposal of a Decision concerning the situation in the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office concerning the prosecution of the worst forms of economic and financial crime and the detection of suspects of crimes of the former SDV". This document also contained an extensive point relating to the alleged controversial appointment of the Director-General of the Supreme State Prosecutor, Boštjan Škrlec. In our opinion, everything was already said in the material under consideration on the working body and in the extraordinary plenary session. We had already warned that the start of the SDS political fight against justice would not be over with the session at that time. Today it appears that we were right, since many of the subjects already dealt with and politically motivated are repeated every so long. Social Democrats to no one, let me repeat, do not deny anyone the right to use legal remedies, so we considered last year to be the case today and we will consider it that way. However, when these funds are used and they are legally determined on what matters, this must be respected regardless of the status an individual in society has, whether it is the president of the largest opposition political party or the public's unrecognizable person. However, we are disturbed by the duality of the applicants when in some cases they exaggerate the use of legal remedies and refer to the rule of law when they are politically appropriate, and the reverse use of legal remedies is almost denied to others or marked as abuse or delay. Your Honor, it is true that the day before the appointment of the new Janšev government Mr Boštjan Škrlec began to work as Director-General of the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office. The irregularities in the appointment process of Mr Škrlec have already been established by the Administrative Court three years ago, but it must be made clear that these irregularities have already been remedied. With regard to this appointment procedure, a number of procedures or activities were subsequently initiated, and direct judicial supervision was put in place at the initiative of the former Minister, Dr. Gorenak, the Government of Janša, and an inspection under the auspices of the Public Sector Inspectorate was subsequently introduced. With regard to direct judicial supervision, we already have a report from the supervisory groups on direct supervision of the conduct of matters of the State Prosecutor's Office at the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Slovenia, whose conclusions are very similar or identical to those found by the Administrative Court in its decision. The procedure for appointing Mr Škrlec has also been verified by the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, and the publication of the findings has been provisionally delayed by the Supreme Court. Therefore, we do not yet have an official report from the Commission on the prevention of corruption. Therefore, all procedures in this case have not yet been completed because key actors are serving the use of all legal remedies. In view of all the above, the Social Democrats can conclude with the following. The procedure for appointing Mr Škrlec has shown a great deal. He also showed that errors had been made in the appointment process and that the law had been misused. There's no doubt about it. He also showed that the legal system may not be the best or that it is not sufficiently precise in the sense that both procedures for appointing the Director-General of the Attorney-General of the State should be very detailed. Why? Since the application of the individual procedure has different forms of appointment and different legal consequences, which are very important. Important for the powers and status of the Director. Important for the use of legal remedies and relevant for the powers of all key actors in the supervision of the appointment process. The control of the correctness of both procedures is different in our understanding and it would be useful to avoid any future misunderstandings to determine who has the powers and powers to specify in these parts of the law when exercising control. And what else did this appointment process show? Unfortunately, he has shown that in this area every matter, every decision and action can also be politicized to the extreme. And that's just because the proposaler isn't going to be the Attorney General of State, Dr. Fisher, and they're willing to find a reason for his discharge in any way. This time this is the wrong application of the law in the appointment of Mr Škrlec. Moreover, this procedure is not only a reason for the discharge of the Attorney General, but is a criterion and an indicator of the general situation in the State Prosecutor's Office. Therefore, according to the motioner, we are witnessing general illegality in the State Prosecutor's Office. Social Democrats, on such claims and in a way that we cannot agree to. Why not? Because things appear very one-sided, two-sided and unobjective, and have nothing to do with the sincere intention that the state's prosecution and even justice, as such, would work better in a way that would also give people a higher degree of confidence. Social Democrats do not think that justice is ideal because it certainly is not. However, we believe that the legislative and executive authorities must intervene in the situation, regulation and functioning of justice by means of measures of measurement and weight. It would be crucial for justice in all its segments, including in the prosecution segment, to establish an effective system of self-monitoring to detect and remedy possible irregularities, while the legislative and executive authorities must assist in this. It is not right what is happening now, even today at this meeting, to bring the credibility of justice down on political criteria. However, honourable proponents, each stick always has two ends. One end always points to the SDS, and you despise the other over and over again. The case of Mr Škrlec always suits you, and it is only a matter of time before we discuss him again at the meeting. However, you never propose an extraordinary meeting on the failure of law enforcement and justice authorities to carry out the prison sentence of SDS member Robert Timer. Yesterday, Mr Igor Bavčar, and your member, Dr Metka Zorc, also, should also begin to be held in prison, and that his medical condition is too weak for him to pass his sentence. You will probably never request extraordinary meetings and a debate in the National Assembly on these cases. Therefore, it will be difficult to convince us of your objectivity, well-intentionedness and truthfulness when it comes to such open questions in justice. We want the Social Democrats to work in accordance with the law, without political guidance or pressure. The evidence should be obtained in a lawful manner and the convictions should be well-founded. The courts should be brought to justice on the basis of the law and the evidence obtained lawfully. The Constitutional Court shall be the guardian of human rights and fundamental freedoms. Citizens and citizens, let us respect legislation, be ethical and moral. However, the holders of public functions, especially the highest in all branches of government, should be exemplary, as it is only in this way that mutual respect will be restored to Slovenia among all citizens and citizens, residents and residents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u123	The word is given by the Group of Members of the United Left, for her Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u124	Dear President, honourable Members, Members and viewers in front of TV screens! At least six times in this term, we have been discussing proposals that have been rejected by the mother's labour force in the National Assembly. So for the sixth time, we will spend half a day on a debate on which no decision and no solution will be taken. This is the exhaustion of Members, the exhaustion of the National Assembly, the exhaustion of the state budget and the exhaustion of the state. And please don't tell us that we are dealing with infertile topics, because, as Dr. Jasna Murgel has already said, we have to do this through the Rules of Procedure, ask about the purpose of the proposer. Instead of using this time to solve real problems, such as the shameless saving of the government at the weakest, unbridled privatisation, coupled with reports of corruption, health problems, increasing levels of poverty, people who cannot even settle the heating bill, an increasing number of jobs and could still list, today we will discuss again, according to the proponents, the catastrophic state of justice, this time in the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office. This time, it is a rather more elaborate topic, which actually relates to a specific case, which is even in fact controversial, because it screams after irregularities, which is also confirmed by the fact that the Ministry of Justice, Inspections, Court and Commission for the Prevention of Corruption are dealing with the case. So all those bodies that are, unlike us, the National Assembly is responsible for this and also have all the necessary documentation. That the National Assembly on this and similar cases is probably not empowered by the proposers. The reason for making recommendations is therefore the same as ever. Of course, it is not in the interest of the proponents to solve any problems that the judiciary has, but rather to seek out individual cases of excellence on the basis of which the campaign against the judiciary continues and to create the impression that they are only in a catastrophic state. So, as always, there will be talk of problems with justice. Yeah, you got it right. We will not discuss the problems facing justice, but the problems faced by some individuals with justice. It is therefore another attempt in the direction if we manage to create the impression that the judiciary is intertwined with corrupt, incompetent and only politically motivated individuals, and that judges and prosecutors are constantly violating human rights and freedoms, we will, sooner or later, convince the public that he is just another victim who is constantly persecuted by the past and constantly violated human rights through political structures. And then everything that he will do will be legitimate, and whenever he is punished by chance, it will be conspiracy and injustice. It is therefore time for us, at least here in the National Assembly, to stop dealing with the destruction of the rule of law and the undermining of the judiciary, but to start looking for solutions that will accelerate positive trends in the judiciary and give citizens confidence in the rule of law. But I'm afraid there's only a handful of us in this position. After the last steps of the Minister of Justice, we fear that the government or the promise of strengthening the rule of law will not be fulfilled. We hope that the Minister will also find that problems need to be identified and systematically addressed in the dialogue with the professional public, but not adopted in short-term procedures by opposing both the professional and interested public. The fact is, the judicial authorities have problems. It is not to be forgotten, however, that these problems are also covered by those who have prepared legislation and adapted it to their current or even their own needs. But we will not solve these problems, as has already been said today. We do not have any proposed solutions on the table that we can actually discuss. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u125	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u126	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Let me begin by explaining that, as Members of New Slovenia, Christian Democrats seem to be in need of a debate on the work and the conduct of the state prosecutor's office, even though there has been a number of them in the past. Although the proposals have not been adopted on the working committee, as they have not been supported by members of the coalition groups, today's debate will certainly help to shed some light on the real causes of the situation in this institution as well as in our country and society in general. Let me explain our position; from the sequence of events as described in the proposal and in their explanation, we can be sure that the procedure concerning the appointment of the Director-General of the State Prosecutor has not been carried out in accordance with the rules. Following an explanation of the Administrative Court’s judgment, it is an arbitrary exercise in the exercise of power and in a specific case of suspected corruption and conflicts of interest in a report issued by the KPC. In countries with advanced democracy, there is no doubt that a public official who would be ruled out of self-execution of power would himself. At a low level of political culture in our country, this means that public officials in the highest public functions are not responsible for their work, not subjectively, not objectively, not criminally, not materially. We do not know the resignations of public officials due to objective responsibility. They are not responsible for the mistakes and even for the illegal work found. There are also no mechanisms in law to prescribe the automatic consequences of such behaviour. This fact, namely the lack of accountability, is, in our view, the main cause of the situation in our society. Mira Cerar's party is the one who, in her pre-election performances, promised to do everything possible to restore the rule of law, and voters have shown her real high confidence. Now there is a great responsibility on this party and the entire coalition to justify this trust, not only in words, but also in actions, because acts count. The opinion adopted by the Government in this particular case when it says, "The illegal situation is now being remedied, let's wait a little longer" does not mean a step forward in the re-establishment of the rule of law, but a continuation of the status quo in society. I would like to stress that the area of responsibility for mistakes in workers in the economy is very consistent and very consistently implemented. Workers answer, I can say, for every mistake I make, I don't speak of illegality at all. The employer reduces the worker’s performance, pay or reassigns him to a poorer job. Most often, however, in the current situation, where there are at least ten candidates for a single job, which is an exceptional termination of employment contracts for reasons of fault. And at least the same standards of accountability should consistently apply even more to the highest public officials. And that's the only way out of the current state of society.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u127	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Well, I'm gonna try to take a little walk over those comments I have on these opening acts. See, several times it was pointed out that Mrs Muršič had already said in her opening remarks that there had been talks on the so-called unacceptable impact on the prosecution. Look, we can agree in this country once that we will respect the Constitution. The Constitution is very clear, we have three branches of authority: legislative enforcement and judicial, which are independent of each other. At the same time, by this constitutional order, a so-called system of balances and brakes has been established between them. However, what I have seen in this National Assembly since 2008, unfortunately, most of that left-hand part of the hall is changing and then I turn out to be a parrot, because I repeat things, but the situation here is that the National Assembly is itself, I will say, reduced or humiliated itself in relation to the rest of the government. The left political option and members of the left political option in this National Assembly more or less from 2008 until now you are humiliating yourself. Why am I saying this? For a fundamental reason, because you do not enforce or wish to enforce what you should enforce as the legislative branch of power to the other equal levels of power. You just had to! We're the ones who make the laws. We are the ones who, so to speak, play a tune that others must respect, of course I speak in terms of the adoption of laws. We are the ones who also control, we have some control functions up to the other two branches of government. Other supervisory functions, of course, have other bodies such as the Council of Justice, such as the State Prosecutor's Council and so on and so on. But in this national council, God forbid, from the trial it's already interference with the judiciary. That's not true. This is not true at all, because then in the invitation received by a Member for an interview with the prosecution or the court, it would mean an analogous topic, of course, of pressure on the legislative branch of power. Yeah, why don't we say that? With the same right, they'd tell me. And I think it is right that we respect the legislative branch of power from the point of view that we are in the process. Yeah, of course it's okay, because we have to. At the same time, the judiciary must respect us at least so much that the Attorney General attends the meeting of the National Assembly or the meeting of the working body, as prescribed by the Rules of Procedure. And say so joyfully: I will not come, I will not come. But this is not interfering with the work of the National Assembly? I'm sorry, I don't agree with that. Let's move on. Mr Fisher's deadlines for data transmission are still running. Mrs Muršičeva, it is true that, indeed, it was said there, on the committee. But what is the truth? Look, Mr. Fisher got an inspector's request last year, so send us the data. And he said, "Nut." He said, "No, I won't. But then he turned to the Justice Department for this to last a little longer, and the Justice Department decided, as it is, that he must give them. It doesn't have to be the other way around. As many as the officials of the Ministry of Justice have, so does Mr Fisher. That's what he says he did and did because he's greedy and he wanted to stall. So the Justice Department has made the right decision. Let's move on. Of course, now the hands are running. What are these hands that this gentleman must intercede? In what law are these laws prescribed? Excuse me, now. It's time! So what are the hands like? They're gone. It's time to go. No, no, no, I'm not arguing with you, but I'm talking about it because you pointed that out because it was said on the board. So what hands does this gentleman have? Any different than I had as a minister, or what? Let's move on. Illegality overturned, says Mr. Stare. Mr. Stare, please write down what I'm saying or then look at the magnetogram and report correctly to the Justice Minister, not like last time. Look, illegality is over. Yeah, it's true. Thus, the provisions of the Administrative Court are respected and the appointment of Mr Skrlec is no longer illegal, but it has become legal because he has applied another article. Yeah. But why did he do that first? He did the first to abuse the law because he knew that Janša’s government would not confirm it. That's it. But now, if the illegal situation is over, okay, buddy Grimes was talking about the lollipop, I don't know if you gave him the lollipop now or what? Or will you say, yes, the illegal situation is over, and the measures will be so and so. If the U.S. Attorney is working illegally, I'm sorry, it's alarm number one. Alarm number one! All the red lights should be on. And you, of course, should act. It is true that you do not have direct powers, you know, but you do have the State Prosecutor's Council. So, I can't settle for this illegality is over. At least that's what you said, right. Mr. Fisher says, "The thing is put in the original state." That's what he's saying. He's even blurry. In addition to the elimination of illegality, I believe that action must be taken. I would if I sat in the same chair. Let's move on. Mrs Murgel: "There can be no proposal for a recommendation." Yeah, why not? Well, now she's gone out again. Article 111 of the Rules of Procedure states that we make recommendations. Of course, because we can't ask them to do the same. But we can make recommendations. And our recommendation was that the State Prosecutor's Council take appropriate action. What's wrong? What's wrong?Oh, my God! I don't think so. Unauthorized intervention in justice. Yes, please! Yeah, I told you, P from the judiciary is an unacceptable intervention in justice. Yes, of course. Look, as long as there is a political link between the Slovenian political left and the judiciary, that's the way it is. It makes sense. Well, that makes sense, then. But if a judge who is infected speaks about it, the court term is infected so that no one will get the wrong idea. In what way is she infected? In the sense that she's a judge and she advocates justice, where she came from, and tomorrow she'll go back. Then she ran it down, because someone who doesn't have that kind of problem is talking. There was something else that was said there. Mrs Murglov talked about the work obligation and I don't know what it was, but there was a talk about wasting time and so on, and we should, as Mrs Tomic recited – artistic impression again, this is not a job obligation, a short-term waste of time and this story. Ladies and gentlemen, especially the SMC, because the other SDs already know Desus. I don't remember, I don't remember the composition of the National Assembly having a 4th regular session, and this 4th regular session is empty. Look, we now have 18 agenda items in this session. If only the items of the agenda were dealt with, where the applicant is a Government, the meeting would be closed on Tuesday at 2 p.m. But I don't remember in all these years that the session will ever be concluded in two days. What was I gonna say? See, of these 18 agenda items, we have 8 points that are of a non-personal nature, i.e. ratifications and the like, because we know how this works, according to the current lane, here the National Assembly does not discuss, there is no explanation for the vote and it is over. Then we have two points of content, a coalition, this is a golden rule, and another point, this could end on Tuesday. All the other points are the fruit of the SDS. So the government doesn't work. Who are you reading to now? What do you read by saying that this beating is an empty straw and I don't know what it is. Yeah, for God's sakes, start working! Accept the laws we'll deal with. Ah, Mrs. Popot is here because he usually leaves. I'm glad you're here. Look, "there are no known facts about the inspection service, we can't talk." When will they be, Mrs. Popotat? When? If Mr. Prosecutor says, "I won't give you any data." The D.A. says I don't give the data, and you say there are no known facts. When will she end her decision? That's when Mr. Fisher will give the information. One of our recommendations was that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia ensure that inspection services receive information. So when is it, Mrs. Popotat? How much longer? A year? Two years, three years, five years? How much? "The proceedings are still pending at the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia." Yes, of course, Mrs. Popot, the Supreme Court has not ruled in 14 months! 14 months! How much longer? One year, two years, three years, five years? How much longer? Probably until 2016 at least, as long as Mr Fisher has a mandate. But how? Then that's how it's gonna go down in history. Just like it was with Mr. Zalar. So, how long should the Supreme Court decide? And we just called, our proposal went in the direction of calling on the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia to decide. Is that pressure? No, it's not. To decide. So the decision in the National Assembly, as you say, is premature. Mrs. Popot, when? Are we going to sit here as an MP or what? When? So when? Come, please, with a word a day, and say some date when it will be. Not only is it premature. Tell me when! "We can't interfere with inspection procedures." Yeah, for God's sake, come on! Someone else said so cleverly on the board. Yes, are we interfering with inspection procedures? Look, an intervention in inspection procedures would be if the National Council said, "Inspecting services, decide both, or, "Inspecting services, you can't decide." Whatever it is, it would be our grave intervention in the inspection services. We have said, however, that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should provide information that inspection services will be able to decide. That's what we said. Is this an intervention in the work of inspection services? Look, the one who claims to be an intervention in the work of inspection services is being misdirected, blouses or doesn't know what this is all about. It is therefore a matter of requiring the Government to provide the relevant information so that the inspectors can decide. How they decide is their business. Not after saying it's an intervention at the inspection services. Oh, Mrs Muršičeva this time in the role of representative SD: "politically motivated themes". Let me know why this would be politically motivated. In fact, we note that the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia has said that two officials in this country have abused power, namely, the former Minister of Justice and the current Attorney General, they have very much needed authority and have decided illegally. And now you're saying it's a politically motivated topic. In addition, the Ministry of Justice found that it was an irregular appointment and found nothing else. And now you're talking to me about a politically motivated subject. Yeah, what do we have here? What's political here? The Administrative Court has said this, which is an independent body, and the Ministry of Justice, where your people, who are the leaders of your people, are the people of this coalition. Is that a politically motivated theme? I'm sorry, it's not. You're talking about Robert the Timer. Let me tell you why you don't mention your Grubelic member who hasn't been in jail in 20 years. You're saying Robert the Timer escaped. He really ran away, that's what they say. I don't know where he is. You were talking about how I don't know how our member is, I'm not sure he's ours, but I don't know, but let's save it, let's leave this story, we'll see if he can, but he's been working with us in the professional world once. But Mr. Grubelič was a member of your predecessors. Look, he's been a convicted person for 20 years, this person has been carrying a certificate that he's sick, and you're now getting into Igor Bavčar, who, excuse me, worked this country, in a rumor. To a greater extent than you do. It's right, he's convicted, we don't have anything to discuss, but you're making a problem because he's been in the hospital for two days, that's a big problem, but the problem is he's Igor Bavčar. But he's a left-wing politician, LDS, not ours, he's not ours, he's an LDS member, he was or he's still a LDS member. And since he's been in the hospital for two days, that's the problem. So Robert the Timer is also a problem that we have been looking for for six months or so. Now let me explain, Mrs Muršičeva, come on, explain to me, I am really asking you why there is no problem of Grubelič, who has been sick for twenty years and who has not come to the Age for twenty years, and should have been sitting there already, I would have already stayed. And it's not a problem. Look, anyone in this room should explain this to me and I will understand this, but I believe the Slovenian public does not understand this, and that is why the Timer, Grubelič, Bavčar is to your detriment. I mean, these two are definitely gonna be coming to the Age, but I don't know if it's gonna be Grubelic, I don't know if anyone's gonna get involved in doctors who write certificates for 20 years. Did you see the cameras last night? It was all there in that hospital down there, all alive. The cameras, why he's not here, the police came in, everything. What about Grubelich? In his 20 ’ s, was there a criminal in there? I don't know about that. At the age of 20, did anyone check with doctors who apologized to him? I don't know. You see, it's not fair what you said. Let's move on. Mrs Tomićeva, of course, I last watched you there about eight years ago in some comedy and I really applauded you but now I almost lost it, I thought I would applaud you because there was a really nice artistic impression and the content was gone. There's nothing to answer because there was no content, but a beautiful artistic impression. He says we should talk about privatisation, we should talk about health care, we should talk about jobs, we should talk about jobs that people can't pay for, in short, they should be dark. Yeah, I'm wondering, where's the agenda from our United Left? Put some of this on the table. Put poverty on the table, for example! Well, let's say the lady put together seven questions. I write these in three days, so roughly after the statistics, if you go watch, you can see, you'll see about that situation. Of course, she managed to write seven questions. Let him write down the request for a meeting of the National Assembly! Privatisation, health care, jobs, and poor people's positions – I believe I will support the conclusions proposed by the United Left. But he says that DZ has no authority to talk about the subject that we have today on the agenda. Yes, wonderful – artistic impression without content. But this is the destruction of the rule of law, I hear. That's great. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know what the demolition of our country is? What's going on between you in the United Left and what's now in Greece is the destruction of the country and the emptying of our people's pockets. You who worship events in Greece must tell the Slovenians at the same time that this "My gift to Greece" to Mr Mesec means 300 million euros, which we will never see again, which we have sent to Greece, and a billion 300 million guarantees that we have given. Because they say we won't return the money. That's what they say in Greece. We're not returning the money, they said. Well, very nice. Let's go down again and bow down to them. So tell the Slovenians what that means. It means a billion 600, you divide by 2 million, and you'll see how much it's from every pocket. There is something else about the relationship between – this is a topic that is very interesting, and I have started and will also end this opening act with this – what is the National Assembly, what is the judicial branch of power and what the executive branch of power is. Look, this self-restraint is a bit of a precedent and self-demeanor. It is self - humiliation, what we do or what the National Assembly does or who you have or have in the past had a coalition. These branches of government are equal. Then tell me why even dice are allowed to be thrown or demonstrated before Parliament. The same is allowed in front of the government. Is it allowed? Do we all agree that it is? Tell me, why isn't that possible in court? Why? Now, according to the latest version, it's possible, as even the Justice Minister at the hearing said, but he had two puffs in his throat, but he said so. He said. Okay. That's another thing. We are all obliged to respect the acts of all three branches of government. Definitely. Surely we are obliged to respect the work of the judiciary, to respond if we are accused or what I know already. And that's what we're doing. It is certainly the responsibility of the Government to adopt, prepare laws, etc. etc. etc. Then tell me why we shouldn't tell me what's wrong with justice if we think so. Why can't we just say that? What are you afraid of? Why should we be afraid of that? We have to say this. This is our duty. And any self-restraint of the National Assembly for my terms is not acceptable. I stress once again that we should respond to a letter from the prosecutor saying, "I won't, I won't come to the National Assembly. I won't." Who named him if we didn't name him? Yeah, how's that? That kind of thing is unacceptable. Then the next question. Is it allowed to criticize the decisions of the National Assembly? It's me. Damn it, because you see how people say we are, and I don't know everything about us and the laws that we adopt. Is it allowed to chimp, criticize the government? Of course it's allowed, but what? Then tell me why court decisions are not allowed to be criticized. Why is that? Why? My answer, of course, is relatively simple. Just why? Because there is total thirst, total thirst, total thirst between the left political option and the judiciary. Let me just remind you of what happened when I appointed the President of the Supreme Court. All the Presidents of the Supreme Court have so far had exceptional powers. Those of you who are professors in college, type in COBISS, and you'll see, and you can bow to them, all of you, from Strazak on, all of you. We had a candidate for the President of the Court, Mr Shorley, against Mr Maslesha. Mr. Shorli, three languages of the world, German, French, English. Masleša nothing. COBISS, so much for Shorley and so much for Masles. There you go. Do you know what happened? The one who had the worst conditions was appointed. This is Mr. Maslesha. However, the reasoning is interesting. Ms Beblereva made the argument, she sat there somewhere in the back and said very clearly that Mr Šorli could never be President of the Supreme Court, because he was, be careful, a member of the Senate in the Paula Rupar case, which was forgiven. He was a member of the Senate. He may have voted in favour of a conviction. He can't be president of the Supreme Court because he was a member of the Senate. And see if this man, if this gentleman goes to work there for one 36, 37, 38 years, I calculated it if he was such an average judge, an average judge to him, for example, made about 30,000 court decisions. And if he was an honest judge, he condemned half the right and half the left. Is that right? Then he was an independent judge, then he's a fine judge. It can't be a criterion of the SD at the time, because he was sitting in a Senate that pardoned Paul Rupar. Look, crazy, crazy and crazy again! But the one who had a hundred thousand sins is fitting. Same story with the prosecutors, exactly the same story. The dress is a little different, but it's the same thing. And all these gentlemen today, so I will end this opening act, see, so to speak, by 1990 we had in the judiciary so-called internal enemies, which, according to the theory of the honorable citizen of Ljubljana and the deserving professor of Bavcon, had to be persecuted, he wrote an article of the law Verbal delict – Smack Tito, bang boom, rest. Look, this gentleman taught something else after that, but if we had domestic enemies to prosecute by 1990, we changed one thing in the Slovenian judiciary in 1990 – domestic enemies are in the SDS. Bye. And half of the Slovenian judges, and I think even more, are still in these positions today, are still in these positions. However, as matters unfolded, the President of the MVK saw and saw at the last meeting an attempt to appoint Judge Dolinska. But where I am still, I will say, grateful and happy for the vote, the decisions that this coalition has taken, because I think we have shown together once, I will say that we have our backs so that the President does not correct me. Why? That's because we're getting automatic. The one proposed by the Council of Justice, or the one proposed by the State Prosecutor's Council, automatically became a prosecutor or a judge. Yeah, why? Then we must abolish the appointment of the judges here. Then it's better not to call them us if it's automatic. Then it's like you push a button like a goose, because then anyone can do it. Then I can sit here sometimes as the chief of police and tell the cops who didn't work, "Look, if you don't want to work, then it's better that I get a doll, give her a uniform, give her two batteries, and let her walk on the road, because it'll be the same preventive effect as if I have you, who doesn't want to do anything." [[…]] The same is true for us that there is no need for any proposal to come to the National Assembly to be confirmed. Yeah, why? This is especially true for the prosecutors who are going I will say past the National Assembly and the appointment is, of course, at the Ministry of Justice. In short, the ratio of forces is such as balance — yes, mutual control — yes, the three branches of power, but not the subordinate role of the National Assembly. In recent mandates, however, the National Assembly behaves this way, except for the last time in the appointment of this judge, and the National Assembly acts as the worst chicken in a herd of hens, to which the rooster jumps at any time. This can't be! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u129	There is no replica because no one has debated yet, so I invite or give the floor to Mrs Ivi Dimic, New Slovenia. Get Mrs. Eva Irgle ready, SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u130	Thank you for your word, chairman. Today's positions of the coalition, because I cannot say about the debates, go in the direction that the judicial officials are actually gods, untouchable and that we have a country in the country. I am convinced that many of us fellow Members are visited by people in sent offices and that you often hear questions about why they are being saved in people, in social protection, in social benefits, in pensions, in people who have caused this crisis, and that they do not bear this burden or recover from them or are not limited to wages, pay no taxes, no taxes on property, and, finally, they do not want to go to jail. I think it is difficult to answer, I hope you will find the right words and tell them today how you will answer such citizens who come up with such a question. The Financial Administration conducts financial investigations against people with only basic survival. However, against those who have put all the money into tax havens, the Financial Administration does not conduct any proceedings. But the saddest part is, after all this time, we don't even have a list of who, where and how much money he took out of the country. And here I ask again, and it seems that more than two and a half years will pass what is happening to the Law on the Seizure of Unlawful Origins. Two and a half years and it's practically none of this law. Now, I don't know if this is our justice, and I wonder if we need it at all, because the fact that, once again, in people who have little and only to survive, there's always the right address to swallow them so that they can be taken from those who are actually the richest, and in an unfair way. And the state doesn't do what it's supposed to do. Where is justice and the implementation of legislation here? So it is rightly assumed that some in this country are gods, untouchable, and that we have a country in the country with a virtual world, which is not the right answer for a better, fairer, legal state.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u131	Mrs Eva Irgle, SDS, has the floor. Get Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert ready, SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u132	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! First, I must say that I expected the President of the Committee on Justice, Mrs Muršič, to answer his colleague Gorenak's questions, given that I saw that I should speak before me in order, perhaps further, if the members of the Social Democrats so agreed. However, I expected an immediate response, but this not least indicates that Comrade Gorenak had a much more accurate discussion with his picturesque debate than at least I think he had so far when we are talking about justice. Mr Boštjan Škrlec, we are talking about today, has been appointed Director of the Attorney General's Office illegally. This is a fact and we did not say it in the Slovenian Democratic Party, but they did say it, explained it and proved it by institutions that are obliged to investigate it and then make their findings public. So that Mr Škrlec was called an illegal party to this place did not find the Slovenian Democratic Party, but it is true that this is the only party that hopes to warn itself about it and which is also in principle because it knows that such things cannot happen. Everyone else, excuse me, respectable colleagues, keep your head in the sand and you're obviously acting like it's all right. And that's probably your country of law and justice. For me and for citizens and citizens, this is certainly not a legal and just state. The Slovenian Democratic Party simply warns these things and thank God that there is a party in this room to warn of this. If it weren't for the Slovenian Democratic Party, we wouldn't know anything about what's going on. It would be about the same as it was in the previous system, building some of Potomac's villages, everything would be nice, everything would be great, even the United Left would be pleased, because those times would be back, but not, respected colleagues and colleagues, it is high time to make a mental leap in the head and accept that democracy is in this country and that it is necessary to warn about illegal things, also about irregularities. The fact is that the then authority that proposed Shkrlec to this place was working or acting voluntarily, unacceptable and illegal, as was confirmed by the judicial supervision of former Justice Minister Dr. Senko Plicanič. More. The Anti-Corruption Commission also led by the current Minister of Justice of the Magi. Goran Klemenčič also found that there had been illegal proceedings in this post. Even more. The Anti-Corruption Commission has made it clear, I quote: "There has been a suspicion of corruption and a conflict of interest." So we did not invent this in the Slovenian Democratic Party, but this was said by the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, specifically the Minister of Justice, the current one, Mr Goran Klemenčič. And you in the SMC are now against your Minister's decisions, which, by the way, on the Committee on Justice, has also admitted that this is the case. And I then told him that I expected him personally, that the matter would be resolved, but not in the way that the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice said everything was resolved. How can it be resolved if Mr Škrlec is still in this position? How can this be resolved? Please, Mr Secretary of State, if there is no minister here to answer this question. How is it possible that this matter is resolved if the gentleman who acted unlawfully is still in his position? The Administrative Court, when Mr Škrlec complained about this to the Administrative Court, also found that in his case there had been arbitrary exercise of power. In short, all the institutions that are obliged to answer these questions in our country have said that this appointment was illegal. But Mr. Scrooge is still in place. And how ironicly, he sits on the Supreme State Prosecutor’s Office, which is a law - enforcement authority that seeks out those who have acted unlawfully or who try to prove it before their own doorstep when they see that there has been illegal conduct, but they are holding their eyes shut. Moreover, Dr. Zdenko Fischer, the Attorney General, wrote to us on the Committee on Justice, when we discussed this subject, a letter addressed to the distinguished President of this Committee, where I believe he has given us unacceptable and extremely unworthy words, which certainly do not touch the Attorney General. Mr Zdenko Fischer did not define himself in his letter until the illegal procedure of his employee, which he was not interested in. It's irrelevant to him because he's "our" and he's doing good for us and our things. That's not what Dr. Zden Fisher was interested in. But again, not for the first time, but again into the rude and extremely offensive discredit of John Janša and the Slovenian Democratic Party. This is where Dr. Bell Fisher's level goes. At the same time, he said in this letter that there would be no meeting, because this meeting is an unacceptable pressure, political pressure on the decision-making of the prosecution organisation. Yeah, I, I'm sorry, colleagues and colleagues, I've never heard more nonsense. Such a meeting according to him represents pressure, political pressure on the decision-making of the prosecution. Why? The Škrlec case has nothing to do with specific decisions in criminal proceedings or any of them. There's only one and only one key link to this thing, and it's an abuse of power. And that is why I expect, also from you, who are the representative of the Ministry of Justice, given that there is no Mr Goran Klemenčič here, that you will convey our opinion to him and that you will clearly tell him that we expect that, given that Dr Fischer has done nothing in this area, he will neither withdraw his or his Minister of Justice, of course within his powers. Given that in his previous role as President of the Anti-Corruption Commission, he said that there has been a suspicion of corruption, I do not think that this will be too difficult for him and the Ministry of Justice. Otherwise, given that Dr. Bell Fisher is protecting his employee in illegal conduct and is responsible for this, I expect him to resign. I certainly support this meeting because I think it is right, and we also owe it to Slovenia and Slovenia to pour pure wine and to point out the irregularities that are taking place in that narrowest circle, the summit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u133	Mrs Anja Bah Žibert SDS has the floor to prepare Mr Jože Tanko SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u134	Colleagues and colleagues, presidents! It is literally a matter of serious concern when we need to draw attention in this National Assembly to the problems and violations that should in some way be resolved and even less, should never have happened. Unfortunately, this is not the case in Slovenia and that is why today's debate is necessary. Some conclusions would also be necessary, which would in some way be a step towards bringing the justice system into operation in Slovenia as it should. Unfortunately, today, this debate does not seem to bring any realisation to the conclusion. It gives me a kind of sadness, or worse, fear. If we just look at some of the debaters. The SD used the debate instead of arguments to deal with the Slovenian Democratic Party. The representative of the United Left Violeta Tomić used the pay phone as a polygon or for the training of her second job, which is a work at the theatre performed by a fifth, which is not sufficient for her to have a parliamentary function. And I believe that as a great battle for rights and the fight against poverty, it certainly does so for humanitarian purposes. The only thing is, in these debates, I could somehow agree with Mrs Clear Murgel, who was talking about the need to amend the laws in this country. I agree, but I expect this government to make a radical change in the field of justice sooner rather than later, let's say reform. But for the time being, given the suggestions we get on the tables at the National Assembly, that is not how it looks. I hope this changes. And finally, you know, we can change a thousand more laws if I can speak so little flatly, it won't help if they don't respect them. If we don't all respect them together. And especially if they are not respected by those most responsible in this country to be respected. In fact, you know, we're really seeing more and more criticism at the expense of the justice system. The debate, as it is today, only confirms that these criticisms are justified and that they are actually calling for change. And I really don't know why this resistance to today's debate is happening when we're talking about specific irregularities. Last but not least, you know, there's a question here, a serious question about the rule of law. Last but not least, we are witnessing violations of the principle of the legal conduct of public authorities. For you, some who are respected in this country, this debate is pointless. The so-called Shkrlec-Fisher-Zalar case is not something that would have happened yesterday. This is an example of an illegal appointment to the post of Director General of the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office, who has been known and respected since 2012. But there were no real reactions to that. I also ask the secretary, who is with us today, why on the one hand you say that irregularities have been resolved and on the other hand no action has been taken against those who have caused this irregularity. So if I'm gonna break the law tomorrow, so I guess that's how it's gonna have to happen, then we're gonna fix it back and nothing's gonna happen to me. But of course, we all know that this is not the case, because in Slovenia the laws do not apply to all the same. It will also be difficult to convince me that what we are saying today is not a problem and that we prefer to talk about some other problems that are more important to this country. No, no, no. I believe that it would be necessary for us today to receive these recommendations and then react, and we are finally elected by citizens and citizens. The recommendations proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party are intended solely to call for the elimination of illegality in the work of the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office, to respect the Constitution and the laws and to finally put them into effect for all. The recommendations are without prejudice to any content of the work of the State Prosecutor's Office. That's not true, and everyone you're talking about today is telling the truth. We are not interested in their procedures or in their problems today, I am talking about the fact that the Attorney General abused the law and acted unlawfully. Let me also point out that illegality has already been established by the Administrative Court. The proceedings were also initiated by the KPC due to suspicion of corruption and conflict of interest, but the publication of its findings was delayed by the Supreme Court. The Ministry of Justice is Bodova 2. 12. 2014, we're talking about 2. 12. Since 2012, the Supreme Court has also asked for information on the timing of the resolution of the case. [[…]] Of course, I do not know the answers, but according to the procedures and how things are going with us, I suppose there will be no such answers for a while. I also stress that it was not until 2014 that the Public Sector Inspectorate started its supervision, which, of course, has not yet completed its work. This is how our procedures work! The complication, of course, arose because Mr Fisher felt that the problems were within his jurisdiction. This is, of course, followed by the position of the Ministry of Justice 8. 10. says four months ago, which clearly stated that the powers are clear and that the inspectorate can complete the procedure. Four months, almost six months again, but nothing happens. You know, on the other hand, we all know very well that these procedures are known to the Attorney General and also to the Supreme surface. But it was just one more prank or maneuver to avoid specific answers and data. The supervision of a supervisory group appointed under the State Prosecutor's Office Act is also completed and its findings are similar to those of the Administrative Court. So, I stress and really stress and I hope that this will be heard once, however, it was an abuse of legislation and illegal action. In its opinion, the Administrative Court stated that both the Attorney General and the Minister, then Minister Zalar, had abused the authority. I'm sorry, but what the hell else is going to have to be done in this country with all these known facts, so that one day only those who should take responsibility will finally take it, or we will respect the decisions that are necessary to make something happen. Seriously, what else do we need? Mr Fisher has abused the law, abused the power, and he is still the Attorney General's Attorney-General. One wonders whether it may be that there is no reaction to all this, some past merit, some payment for Mr Fischer's credits in the light of what he has done in his past. And perhaps it is also on some initial payment for his actions that he corrected when he grossly violated fundamental human rights by his decisions. You know, I am talking about this protection, which I find really unreasonable, and I am convinced by a number of other irregularities that Mr Fisher is doing. Let me just remind you of some. In 2012, Mr Fisher, in accordance with the State Prosecutor's Act, should adopt a so-called law of prosecution, which is a kind of postulate of the prosecutor's work, but which he missed for six months. And, you know, nothing happened. I'm talking about the prosecutor's postulate, but nothing happened. Someone in this country is allowed everything. Contrary to the legislation, he also received a delay in transmitting a joint report on the functioning of the prosecutors for 2013, but look at the fraction, again nothing. When I proposed control on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party at the time, because I felt I needed it according to the situation, of course it was all vehemently rejected, "ah, let's leave it!" Some people in this country can just break the law. You know, a few days ago, Mr Fisher was able to afford something unacceptable – from his role as Attorney General he made a political account with the Slovenian Democratic Party. You know, this is an intervention of the judiciary into the legislature. And not the other way around, what some are trying to point out today in their debates. That's the problem. Indeed, by substantiating his apology that he does not intend to attend the meeting because he is a citing Slovenian Democratic Party, he is a serious intervention in the legislative branch of power. It means that the Attorney General has allowed himself to share the MPs with the right and wrong. That, my dears, is a serious problem. But, you know, there was no reaction to that either. Mr Fisher probably – I don't know, maybe he's looking at us today – he's working on it and laughing about it. Slovenia is a different country. You know, it's the saddest thing in my opinion that some people really look at it as a matter of fact when they point out the problems in justice, and they take it off with their heads, but it's not that bad. But the more we tell you something's wrong with this system, the more you put your head in the sand. Your Honor, you know, there's a lot wrong and it's about time we woke up. Some of us are, some of us just prefer to chat or read newspapers. All right. But every day you are more strongly reminded by citizens that the rule of law does not work in this country. Make sure that's a good warning.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u135	Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u136	Thank you very much. President, I think we have a problem. In the light of the rules of procedure, I propose – I know that you cannot have a significant impact on this, but I will still point to the situation in which we are. We are therefore discussing the illegal work — in a hard form, not a conditional one — of the Attorney General, Mr Fischer, and the former Minister of Justice of Zalar, as confirmed by the court. And there is a debate in the National Assembly that I see that so far all the coalition Members and all Members of Parliament, the already associated opposition, have resigned. In short, no one's talking. And I think that's what's gonna happen next. I asked in my half-discussion a few questions. It would be best if I asked you, if somehow – yes, the chairman had changed – if the president had somehow called those people to come here and answer, but not according to the rules of procedure, I would have repeated some of the questions and some of the dilemmas that I had in the debate. And I will once again call on the Members to whom I have addressed the questions to come to this Chamber and answer the questions. Let's go in one order. Unacceptable pressure on the prosecution's work. Mrs. Mursic, come to the hall! The lady was reported as the second in the order of things – the sky is gone! [[advertising from the hall]] Oh, you are. Well, then come to your seat and answer me – unacceptable pressure on the job of the prosecution. Why is it unacceptable to put pressure on the work of the Prosecutor's Office if we point out that there is a decision by the Administrative Court saying that two gentlemen, Mr Fisher and Mr Zalar, have misused power and acted unlawfully. Just give me that, please. Enlighten me and tell me why this would be an unacceptable intervention in the prosecution's work. Mrs. Murgel, here we go! She's not either. She argued in her debate that this was a waste of time. She probably went home, and I hope she'll pay some back. But the National Assembly doesn't really have anything to do if it's up to the government. And once again, I ask Mrs Murglovo what the problem is, but if we have a regular session in this National Assembly, the 4th regular session where there are two coalition points. Two coalition points. [[The ad from the bench.]] Government, coalition good, coalition-government, because it's probably something self-evident, coalition and government to go together. [[…]] You've brought two items of the agenda together, the whole government and all members of the coalition. The SDS brought together eight, but eight such ratifications, which we know are substantively non-negotiable points, but are basically just votes. So what would we do, and why would Mrs Murglov and all of us take home 2,000 900 euros, but if the government doesn't work, the coalition does nothing. Then at least let the opposition work, and we will work. The pressure on the inspection services here Mrs. Popotat, third eclipse, is gone! [[…]] Look, she claims that pressure on the prosecution is what we do. We have only demanded that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, by a decision, ensure that Mr Fisher will provide data on the inspection. Nothing else. So, if we ask the Government to ensure that Mr Fisher fulfils his legal duties and provides information to the inspection services, in which, Mrs Porotat, a lawyer, this is a pressure on the inspection services. I would stress that the pressure on the inspection services would be if you wanted to influence me: don't decide, decide, punish, and I don't know what. So it is only our desire to call on the government to provide information. So, Mrs. Popotat, come to the hall and tell me. Mrs Muršič is coming and I hope that I will get an answer to the next question. What you're saying is that this is a politically motivated story that we're doing. And you mentioned Mr. Timer who disappeared, and you mentioned Mr. Bavcar who's in the hospital. Please explain to me why this is a problem. Why is the disappearance of the Timer a problem for Bavčar hospital, and why is not the problem of 20 years of medical apologies to Mr Grubelic? Is there any cameraman in Slovenia, any journalist, or a call to them who is able to find a doctor, Mr. Grubelič, and say, where did he apologize now for twenty years? He's capable of any cameraman going down there to the Age and asking the boss of the Age how he comments about it, because yesterday he commented on Mr. Bavčar's absence, which is in the hospital that the criminals have already been looking for. Tell me, maybe you know if they were looking for something. So what's the problem now? Why this is politically motivated, what we do, and why everything is fine in the case of Grubelič, who has not been seen in 20 years and has been carrying an apology for 20 years. Explain to me, I will really feel satisfied if you explain this to me in such a way that I understand. The destruction of the rule of law by the Lord – who has already been? - Mr. Moon. In the introductory debate then, I would say, the artistic impression of Mrs Violet Tomić, who is also not, here are two clouds we have back on that side. The destruction of the rule of law. Now, Mr Kordish, I'm sure he'll be able to say it here because he probably can if they've already disappeared. Why, on the other hand, is there not a problem of 300 million euros that we will not get back from Greece, at least so announced in this new government. And why is it not a problem that we have given a billion 300 million guarantees, amounting to a billion 600? They say they won't bring it back. You go down to Athens, "I bow to victory!" Tell the Slovenians why it's no problem we're gonna lose a billion 600. You'd better say that. And don't talk about poverty, hunger and all the other things, but I can see about cannabis that it is very modern to talk to Mrs Tomic. Yeah, three questions. Make a meeting, ask for a meeting, ladies and gentlemen, or come to the hall, Mrs Tomićeva and Mr Mesec, if you have not already gone home, and tell us why this meeting is problematic, why it is a waste of time and why a billion 600 for the Slovenes who will lose them, as it appears, such as the voices from Athens, that is no problem. And you said, "I bow down." Like you said. Mrs Irgle has asked the Secretary of State quite a few questions. I know he's a good talker, and I've known him for so long, and it would be good if he answered those questions. So many calls to those who blinked are gone, but earlier they were the smartest among the wisest in this National Assembly when it was necessary to spit on the SDS. Let's move on. When we're talking about the prosecution, I still have to get to know you, today is just the DA's office of darkness, you talk to me, I'll tell you, you talk, and I don't know what you're talking about, you're smart for a speaker and you're talking about what an independent institution it is. Can I give you an example, ladies and gentlemen? This independent institution, led by independent Mr Fischer, who independently says that I will not come to the National Assembly, is studying intensively for seven months, watch out, intensively examines the suspicion of crime. The horrendous suspicion of criminal services. Rather, honest citizens wrote an anonymous, anonymous, honest citizen, which says that he is still his own at the Grof Inn or how Mr. Krković has been subjected to tireless interrogations, torture and liquidation. It's a terrible crime. Six months of study. Krkovich is not being heard, but Mrs Eva Irgle has received a letter if she has handled it anywhere. Six months of terrible work. Ladies and gentlemen, let's turn the story around. Let's turn it around, say, interrogations, tortures and liquidations in Murglah, in Milan Kučana's house, honest citizens. What would the D.A. do? What would the D.A. do? Look, let's be realistic about what prosecutors would do. I'll tell you what, the writer would throw the matter in the trash bin, probably because it's on its own conceivable that it can't happen. Then why isn't it self-involved and it can't be at the Grof Inn. This is exactly the same story as in 1933, when German prosecutors say that the burning of Reichstag was not already done by Hitler, but not by ethics and morals and the statutes of their party, his, Hitler's, is such that it itself goes away. You see that self-control of prosecutors. And we have that kind of self-control. But these same prosecutors, so far as you will know, three days after the events took place in Paris – you all know what we are talking about, the horrendous killing, the terrorist act and so on – and when someone appears on Slovenian Twitter – how already – the treasurer of Matija, who in the exact and correct Slovenian language is very much like the pianist service of one of the parties – I do not suggest anything because there is no evidence – very clear: What happened in Paris is a kindergarten, what will be on Democracy and Reporter, which will be bad. He's going to be a masseuse. But we're going to put a bug on the wheel, a reporter. And now let's look at the reaction. In three days, the D.A. is found to be not a crime. It's not a crime. The Society of Journalists of Slovenia does not react. She's not responding. And it reacts to this stupidity of what this journalist is, how is it that he had that show about that extremism? [[…]] Valenčič, which you can see in any picture with Osama bin Laden up there, is an independent journalist, and then he sounds stupid like he is. And that's where the press community reacts immediately. Fear of SDS. You see, this is a problem situation and the prosecution can't work like this. The independent prosecution will be when we have an independent Attorney General, when we have one honest marriage, namely, the present is a disaster, a prosecutor's law. It's a total disaster. For those of you who don't know what I'm talking about, I'm talking about the next one. The courts have cases. First, second, third, constitutional. Whoever's on this line is wrong or doing anything wrong can be fixed. Tell me, who can say anything about the prosecution's decision that this is, and that tweet of that story is not a crime. Look, under the Prosecutor's Act in this country, there is no human being, nor between the prosecutors, nor outside of their species, who could correct this prosecutor's decision. Why? Since the law we passed in 2011, Mr Zalar's proposal made prosecutors independent equally to the judges, and today also to the chief prosecutors, the chief prosecutors cannot correct the error of one prosecutor at a lower level, because Mr. Zalar entered into the law – I lost my nerve to that speaker or spoke very loudly, but they looked at me a bit – but it was "for" the law. Of course, he passed some law that allows such things to be allowed and controlled by prosecutors. And the control over Mr. Fisher, it's not. It's not. If we are an independent branch of government, as the judiciary is an independent branch of government, and if, after a certain procedure, we are able to replace the President of the National Assembly, the Vice-Presidents and so on and so on, the heads of labour, if after a certain procedure we can go to early elections, the judiciary of the Supreme Court and the Prosecutor's Office both makes the matter absolutely clear when you get there, you can do what you are doing or not doing, and I think that the Presidents of the Attorney General are the ones that the situation is over. You're sitting there, ficus, and so on, because you're going to work like Mr. Fisher -- we should also ask him if he's going to work -- there's no sanctions, there's nothing we can do. What we can do is, of course, some of the recommendations made by the National Assembly, but of course they fall on the committee. And that's very bad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u137	Thank you very much. It's a replica. She can't be. You can't because you can say what you think you should after the vote. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u138	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, I would like to point out that, at this point in the agenda, I would expect a minister who is first written in the Government's opinion on this point. And I think he'd be the right person to comment and explain all these things that are connected to the prosecution's work. I think it is undignified that the Minister is not in the plenary session of the National Assembly at any point in his field of content, but always finds reasons for not having him and sends the subordinate officials. We also missed the minister at the previous point because it was about justice because it was about dealing with a bank hole. He publicly praised that when the KPK president looked deeply at the intestines of the banking system, he found many irregularities in this banking system, he talked about people there being a lot of these people, but today, when he could present this colonoscopy of banking here, he was not there. It is also not in this item of the agenda to explain since when the findings of the court which found illegal in this appointment, which has suddenly become acceptable to the Government and the Minister, are legal, and it is even stated in the end that deficiencies in the resolution or that matters from the courts are taken into account. How can this happen in such a short time, and how can the position of the Minister be changed in such a short time, which is quite different from when the President of the KPK Senate was? I think that I could explain this action of the Government in relation to what it proposes by amending the five laws in the prosecution, in the judiciary, in full, including in the prosecution. When it comes to the need to follow GRECO’s recommendations, it is likely that GRECO’s recommendations are not such that the found illegality of the court would become legal so that someone could by the way find out and define the case as different as it was written in the judgment. This is also a question for the President of the Government, who, after all, has processed this procedure in the Government and has also taken a decision on this. If the President, the current President of the Government, in pre-election proceedings and even in pre-conceived performances in the National Assembly, advocated absolute respect for the rules and decisions of the institutions of the rule of law, then this opinion follows that this is no longer the case. It's not like that anymore. It is said that the President of the Government is doing very much the same as his minister. When in one situation, in one position, he speaks of one criterion, when he has to act and act in accordance with these criteria, he says so in another way. That's what I think is completely inappropriate. Given that Attorney General Fischer insists on his decision, which is different from that of the court, I am also interested in whether Mr Goran Klemenčič, Minister of Justice, will resign. Now he's a politician who should be making decisions. As President of the KPK Senate, he referred to the fact that the policy did not want to take decisions that would allow action in cases where he, as president or commission, had identified them, the anti-corruption commission, in some cases, and had accused politics in the National Assembly and the Government. He is now in a position to act directly. Is he going to step down in this case because he can't act or won't act? Almost every decision taken during the period when KPK was Prime Minister has seen the risk of corruption. This was a password that had not been avoided in exactly no Commission opinion to prevent corruption. In this case, when systematic abuses have occurred, systemic decisions are contrary to the decision of the Administrative Court. There have been several changes or decisions that were contrary to the decision of the Administrative Court. It is difficult to say that we are talking about a rule of law, a rule of law, if these rules change so radically under the unaltered legislation and depend solely on which side the person responsible is standing. Whether the KPK president and the candidate for elections are in one position. The moment they get power when they take over executive functions, they have completely different views from those they advocated. I also need to touch on some of the debates, because some of you have mixed the conduct of citizens and are on the ground that the actions of officials can be similar or identical. Someone mentioned Mr. Bavcher here. Mr Bavčar is the former Minister of the Drnovsko government, who was appointed at the time when Gregor Golobič played an important role, is now a citizen. I think that in this case, the argument is that because some people are citing certain things, that they can also do so by the officials of the judicial authorities or by the officials of the government is completely inappropriate. Officials are probably covered by the rules. For those who initiate investigative procedures that make accusations against persons and those who do, these criteria should be particularly strict and the integrity of these officials is particularly high, but this is simply not the case. And there's one more thing. Some of you have also talked here about what this debate means to put pressure on the work of the prosecution and justice in general. The national assembly or working bodies of the National Assembly have written among the general provisions that, firstly, they must also deal with politics, monitor the situation in particular areas, decide on policies in these areas and so on. The national assembly and the working body of the National Assembly are responsible for this. Only fourth, the fifth issue is the adoption of legislation. And all those who say that it means some pressure on the prosecution and so on, you're wrong. This only means that you are faking legislation, that you are playing rules in the National Assembly, that you are preventing key issues that are a problem, a debate. And you're blocking decisions. I would not expect a coalition that has so much to say about respect for the rule of law that, in such a clear case as has occurred in the State Prosecutor's Office and in which case there are also judgments, it acts differently than the court's decision. I wouldn't have expected it, but, unfortunately, it's happened, like many times before. I expect that if some kind of interpolation is put in, you will cover all such illegal cases by voting as before, which will very poorly testify. This happened in the previous government when the obvious things that were illegal covered up. In short, I think it is inappropriate for you to overtake the debate and the decision that the National Assembly should take in such an uncritical manner. If anyone, these recommendations should be processed through the legislative process of the coalition without waiting for the opposition and then voicing and avoiding these discussions. This is primarily the primary responsibility of the coalition members and the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr. Darko Stara. The Member has also been notified. Will you wait for him? Please. Mag. Branko Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u140	Thank you for your word. Oh, that's a good-bye again. I hope that, at least now in the debate, you have clarified that one of the key functions of Parliament, which comes from the Slovenian Constitution, is a supervisory function. It is the duty of Parliament to respond to irregularities, shortcomings, non-responsibility, in short, to conduct that is not in accordance with standards and laws in any area of social life, especially when it comes to such an important area as the Prosecutor's Office. How this works in practice, formerly colleague Gorenak presented perfectly. Now you've set up a world for hate speech. I read it last time in the paper. Great, I have to say. The hate speech is something that law enforcement authorities do in Europe. But with us, you can declare entire families Nazis, and that's why this is so, why it's necessary, even necessary, it's not a hate speech, it's not a hate speech that our prosecution doesn't recognize as a hate speech. Although according to European standards, hate speech has exactly two characteristics. The first element is that there must be defiance, dehumanisation, defiance, and the second, that there must be a justification for why this is justified, admissible, necessary, whatever the case. But you don't recognize that. You put in a medium that is accessible to everyone, a threat with a beating – the prosecution doesn't react, it's not a problem. What if the Slovenian Constitution guarantees certain values, including the right to life, if these things are regulated by criminal laws, no problem! When it comes to putting someone in a position, it is done immediately, regardless of the legislation. And then, by chance, when any other court finds that this is illegal, the case is already being resolved in such a way as to release one additional procedure, delay 14 months and, you won't believe, the government that is the first to react is not responding. Put yourself in the position that this is someone else's problem. No, that's a state problem, ladies and gentlemen! And since you're the government of this country, that's your problem. And since you're not responding, then you need to react to you. This is no longer just the problem of the prosecution, it is the problem of this government, which does not work by accident. That's a real problem. And that's a very big problem! The state of the state's Attorney's Office, if, of course, you get a political commitment at any time, read the government and its coalitions in the National Assembly, will never change. This means that in vain all those warnings from the European Union that say that Slovenian justice is not by means of mechanisms, not by means of procedures, nor by speed does it meet the standards expected by modern democratic Europe. And what do they warn? That is why we all live worse because this is a developmental issue because there is no adequate legal protection. However, the government is placed in a particular case, which we are dealing with today, in the view that everything is in the best order, even though all those who have broken the law, as the court has also found, remain on their posts. Not only has no one been punished in any way, but everyone stays on duty. And all those who are responsible for delaying the procedure also remain in their functions, perhaps others have received some reward. Now I ask you whether it is the job of the Slovenian government to give lollipop to anyone who violates the law and who delays the procedures that all taxpayers then pay dearly. Probably not. The government would have to act. And if the government does not act, it would be incumbent upon the National Assembly to act, but it is obvious that there is the will of the majority in this National Assembly that nothing should change. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is a disaster! For if anyone has not yet noticed, the institutions of this country do not function as they should, and this is the central development issue of Slovenia. Because institutions don't work, the economy is on foot, we're losing development opportunities, we're wasting time. And the time when the government has a transitional left is a waste of time for Slovenia for all eternity. It leads to ruin. And this message you have made with your conduct and with your decisions and with your discussions today you have made it very clear to the public. We can only hope that the public will understand that.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr Darko Stare, secretary at the Ministry of Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to point out that the reason why Minister Klemenčič is absent today is that he is performing a state duty abroad, which only the Minister of Justice can perform, given the content of this duty and returns tomorrow. As for the questions and the expected answers from Mr Gorenak, I will try to address Mrs Irgle in a concise manner, focusing on what is the subject of today's debate. Initially, I would like, not to be as graphic as Mr Gorenak was, but to point out two things in the first place. We all know that every violation of the law does not even necessarily have a prescribed sanction and that the difference is also where sanctions are prescribed or someone else will be carded, does not bind with a safety belt or smoke in business premises and so on, which is illegal. The same applies to working procedures, appointments and so on. Not all are as serious violations and sanctions are not as severe as criminal offences. As regards the case at hand, if we look at the legal and factual situation of the case that is currently under discussion, the legal and factual situation of the matter is identical as it was at the end of 2012. The Government, in which Mr Gorenak was Minister and, as he himself has said, was also in charge of the State Prosecutor's Office, has found that this appointment was illegal and has, in the framework of its powers under the administrative procedure, dissolved or repealed that appointment. Since the person concerned applied the legal remedy, the court then confirmed and confirmed the Government's finding at the time, in which Mr Gorenak was also Minister. At that time, the legal and actual state of things was the same. But today, in an implementation that was also specifically addressed to me as State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, there was an excited expectation that there was something that we could do that we would not do because we did not want to. The fact is, therefore, that at a time when the legal and actual situation was the same, the Minister of Justice did not do what he now expects and I believe that for very very professional reasons. He himself mentioned that Mrs Barbara Brezigar, State Secretary, who was also the Attorney-General and doubtless an expert in this area, had not resolved or proposed to the Council of State that it should be decided and possibly proposed a discharge to the National Assembly, but had notified the matter to the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. This procedure has not yet been completed. And since I was in my previous post at the time when Mr Klemenčič was President of the Commission, personally Head of the Supervisory and Investigations Service, I can also say firsthand that this information or information about, I would say, the procedural phase and the decisions of the Commission used in your executions are not accurate and incorrect. In particular, the Commission, at the time when it received a statement of suspicion from the Secretary of State or later from the Minister, at the time, Mr Gorenak, has now taken up the procedure, has examined it and has not adopted an opinion on corruption, because it is in the preliminary phase through the use of a remedy, i.e. through an administrative dispute, one of the issues dealt with in the proceedings, that is, Mr Zalar, has achieved that the case is currently before the Supreme Court. And it has also been rightly mentioned earlier that the Ministry of Justice has, at that time, inquired precisely for the purposes of, because we want to properly inform you as Members and, of course, also the public within its competence, of course, called upon the Supreme Court to state at what stage this matter is. And the answer was that by the end of 2014, the month of December was to be decided, but it is not, as we know. This information has been obtained from the Supreme Court. In short. The legal and actual situation in 2012 was the same as today. The action was not what is expected now. I am convinced that we, too, and of course, must be committed to working under the law and under the conditions laid down by the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, which are those which may be proposed and by what procedure of discharge, that the then Minister and then Secretary of State have found that they are not sufficient, so they have probably decided to apply to the Commission for the prevention of corruption, which is not the end of the procedure. That's the first one. Second. That's when the minister decided to prosecute. The judicial supervision under the powers of the Ministry of Justice was then tried and not carried out. After that, he continued in the time of Minister Pličanić. Today it is practically a third government – we are talking about controversial behaviour in 2012 and it has not been completed. We finished it in two months. However, to tell you the truth, if I were in this role at the time, I would not use this control at all because it is unnecessary, because I am satisfied with the court's finding that some conduct was unlawful, irregular and illegal. We do not achieve the gap with judicial supervision, but it has also been proposed. I don't know why. In short, in order to return to the outset, the fact that, following a finding of unlawful conduct, it was incorrect that the procedural provisions had been applied incorrectly, since the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office provided for two types of proceedings. One is the appointment, one assignment and then the Minister-General or the Attorney-General applied these provisions incorrectly. When this was established, the matter was resolved. And apparently, for you at the time and for no government to date, these were not sufficient reasons for action as is expected today. And I believe, given the conditions laid down by the law, that this is the right conclusion and proper procedure. However, when other postures have been completed, if this has been corruptly motivated or if the situation has been misused in terms of incrimination, as set out in the Penal Code, this will be the new circumstances which constitute the basis for the possibility that the Ministry of Justice, but indirectly, as the Member of State has rightly stated, proposes and calls on the Council of State to examine these facts and possibly then propose, as a competent authority independent of the National Assembly, that it decide whether to resolve the situation or not, but we do not yet have this situation. For this reason, it seems correct to me that the legal and factual situation is the same; the decisions are the same as they were; I think that they are correct in the light of the legislation in force and that if we are all devoting ourselves to the rule of law, it is only necessary to wait until the decisions of the competent authorities are made. The cases, as has been repeatedly exposed, are before the inspection and before the Commission to prevent corruption. The Supreme Court shall decide on the matter and the communication shall be notified by the end of 2014. As this has already passed, it is a reasonable conclusion that this is likely to be soon and then new circumstances, new legal facts, and then there will also be the basis for new decisions, new possible procedures. From this point of view, I think it is correct for all Members who do not know all these legal and factual procedures and the stages of this particular case, but it is only right for them to make it public, to stress it, as well as for the public. Because it's simple, at least I got the feeling, it makes me feel like we could do something, and we don't want to. It's not like that. There are no conditions for what you expected to be resolved until it is finally decided. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u143	Here you are, Dr. Vinko Gorenak, the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u144	Yes, thank you very much. Well, at this speech of the Secretary of State. Look, Secretary of State, I'm on the subject we're talking about today, and I don't have any criticism, and I don't have any objection to you and Mr. Minister, since you've been in these positions. I didn't say anything either, no way. But what do we or we differ in? That's next. Now, you say the thing is being saved, every violation has no sanctions and so on. I like to be plastic, and I give a case that people understand. Tell me what would happen if, say, we were right after a meeting over there in Maximarket "burned", a total of us, and we got in our car, and we were stuck in a car somewhere, and, of course, stuck our cars, we wouldn't have any of it because the helmet wasn't hiding and so on. Is any sanction prescribed for this? I mean, sanctions in the sense that you or I should back down? It's not. I'd probably get a misdemeanor from the court, unadjusted speed, alcohol, and what's next. But if you didn't report it to the police because there wasn't a third party, and you'd order a tow truck, take the car home, there's no damage. What would it be? Nothing. Do we both agree with that? But the thing would come to the media. And there's no sanction, except for that one. But I guess you'd back out and I'd back out, 'cause we'd be a little embarrassed. There's no sanction. You see? Therefore, I tell you that it is not right that in the case of Mr Fischer, there is no sanction for all of us to do this except for us here, the SDS. But everyone else, yes, you're not telling me why Mrs. Brezigareva didn't report it or I'm reporting it to the State Attorney's Council. [[…]] Look, it's like asking me why a farmer doesn't hire a wolf to guard his sheep. Of course, if he eats his sheep. The State Prosecutor's Council was composed by Mr. Zalar. You think the U.S. Attorney's Council is going to say anything against Zalar now? He won't. Here they sat in a public debate from the lady, the one from Celje, as it is written, I don't know, today are members of the State Prosecutor's Council, where Mr Fisher was sitting at the time; they nodded so that their head almost fell down. When we talked about the composition of the State Prosecutor's Council, how it's going to be made up and so on. So it doesn't matter, you know, to report to the State Attorney's Council. This one won't do anything. It's clear he won't do it. What did the KPK find? Look what the KPK found out, so you texted me in writing, because you're right, in substance, what you said is that the matter is not finished. Because of the suspicion of corruption and the conflict of interest, you've started the process and you've written a document about anything. But this document is under lockdown today. But this document was blocked by the Supreme Court. Now you say, "the process is not yet finished." That's the difference between us. Of course, the procedure is not yet completed because you are right that the procedure is not completed, and I ask you, when will it be completed? You'll say it's an independent court. I'll tell you today when it'll work. [[…]] You don't know until when? By mid-2016, Why is that? Because then Dr. Fisher will run again. Well? We're talking about the 2012 case. All year 2013, 2013, 2014, now running 2015 and the procedure is not completed. You are satisfied with this – there is again a difference between us – and you say, legally so, the procedure is not finished. You're right, but it's unacceptable that the procedure isn't over, it's unacceptable. Not from you, from the Supreme Court. Because the Supreme Court is deliberately stalling because it's protecting him. He's protecting him for what? Because Mr Zalar put him there, where he sits today in the post of Attorney General, and Mr Masleša the year before that, in 2010. You see, this is problematic, this bike is problematic, and this bike needs to be run. But it has to be driven in the same direction that the matter will start to work. You say Mr. Fisher's discharge. Yes, of course there will be no solution, for one time, because the State Prosecutor's Council will not propose this and, secondly, because there will be no data. Of course, there will be no data, because Mr Maslesha is stalling, this is a problematic story. Everyone, and in the coalition, there's an association at the end, and nothing. To conclude, I only have a few seconds left for Judge Murglov to say nothing, but she went home. That Mrs. Popot didn't answer my question, but she went home. That Mrs. Muršičev will, no, she won't, too. Yeah, she had a chance to share, and she left. And, of course, that Mrs Tomic will not answer me and that Mr Kordiš, although he is with us, has failed to answer the question of how, with a billion and 600 million, the Greeks and, of course, the worship of the Slovenian legal state. I don't check out at college and they don't check out, because you know what it looks like, they get a shus – a shus in terms of a negative assessment that something will not go wrong – but in the National Assembly I don't have such powers as an opposition MP. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u145	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. The time set for the debate has not yet expired, so I ask, on the basis of Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure, whether anyone else would like to discuss it. If he wants a proposer or a government, with his hands up. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Proposer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u146	Thank you very much. To conclude that I will not repeat that no one will say that I am repeating myself as a broken record player or anything like that, I will try to make a call based on all of this. Ladies and gentlemen, you have probably found that the Slovenian Democratic Party is opening up the subject. Today, there were three such topics on the table — banks, DUTBs, and the prosecution. I guess in the time coming, it won't be much different. It would be time for the government to start sending some laws to Parliament, not actually having two items of the agenda proposed by the Government and the coalition. As far as our proposals are concerned, I will say again, at least in the part concerning the judiciary, I am the author of justice there, with other proposals for laws, recommendations, will be mostly colleagues. As far as justice is concerned, believe me, as long as I'm in the National Assembly, I won't run out of work. I'm sure I won't run out of work in the justice department. I note, however, that some of the minimum changes in the National Assembly in relation to justice are minimal changes. It's like sunlight, you know, at minus 45 degrees Celsius, about that kind of change. So we don't live in normal time at plus 25 degrees. But it would be good to. Therefore, the topics that will continue to be on the agenda of the National Assembly, however you take them, know one thing – the things that we have warned about or warned about in the context of justice, which I was also responsible for in the past, drank water, had meaning, had a tail and head and had a purpose. It is not right, in particular, for coalition Members, to reject all that you think you or your political options will benefit from following the current tape. It would be good to look at the benefits of citizens, but above all to see whether this third branch of government works or does not work. In fact, when I first said in 2008 that we had justice that was not actually working for the benefit of citizens and which was not working for the needs of citizens and so on, it ended here, so that the President of the National Assembly had to cut down so that I could go on. Today we are talking about this a little more openly, a little more normal, but I want a dialogue. I want a dialogue. Who? The ones you meet in justice. This is Mrs. Murgel. These are the SMC lawyers who've been bothering you, so to speak, who you know about things. On the other hand, there are people who are familiar with justice, who were lawyers who were close to the judiciary and so on. Just tell me what I'm wrong about! Don't sit in a sent-off bench and watch the air when it's time to go home. That's not enough. Tell me what you don't agree on, but argumentatively. But it's not the talking and the head in the sand, it'll be better. But when it will be, we don't know, do we? We are the ones who have to do better in this country. I call you to this work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko, please, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u148	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Previously, the Secretary of State said that the Minister was absent because he had international obligations. On Friday, we were at a college where the Secretary-General of the Government did not say that Minister Klemenčič wanted to participate in this agenda item. This could also be an appropriate reallocation of the proposed agenda or agenda items at this meeting. You also have the opportunity for those who hold the meeting to change the order of the agenda during the meeting as well, this is all in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Of course, if a minister or a government were to show interest in this, there would be no problem. However, it is obvious that the order of the agendas is designed so that as many ministers as possible are absent when their agendas are set. And all these obligations are transferred to state secretaries and other officials. So I propose, Mr Vice-President, that you address to the Government a proposal to propose when we consider the agenda and timetable for the meetings of the National Assembly, that the Government make such a proposal or comments that the debates in the National Assembly will also be maximized by the time ministers, when ministers in Slovenia do not have inderogable obligations abroad. I think that would be right. Things aren't planned overnight, but they're also pre-planned, all these hands are known. I suggest that these things, as you have already written a letter to the Government regarding the use of time, also warn them that they also say when they suggest that it would be best to have their agenda item on the table. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-29-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u149	Thank you very much. I will, of course, inform the President of the National Assembly of your procedural proposal. I conclude the general debate. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9. 12. 2009 The National Assembly notes that the procedure for the consideration of the proposal has been completed. I hereby conclude the 16th item of the agenda. I'm adjourning the Fourth Session of the National Assembly, and tomorrow we're moving on because it's Friday, 10 a.m. Thank you very much.
