ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the sixth session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mrs Eva Irgl, Mrs Janja Sluga, mag. Tanya Zink, mag. Margareta Guček Zakošek from 14:00 to 19:00, mag. Klaudija Markež, Mrs Iva Dimic, Mrs Suzanne Lepi Šimenko, Mr Marko Ferluga from 15 to 18:00, Mr Janez Janša, Mr Jani Möderndorfer, Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec from 12 noon onwards, Mr Roberto Battelli, Mr Jan Mahnič, Mag. Matthew Tonin from 16:00 to 20:00, Mr Franz Jurša from 16:00 on and Mr Luka Mesec from 16:00 on. I say hello to everyone who's here! Before we move on to the 14th item of the agenda, I would like to remind you that on Sunday, 29 March, 25 years have passed since the adoption of the Law on the Anthem of the Republic of Slovenia. So let me say a few words on this occasion.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u2	Dear representatives of the Government, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members, distinguished guests, citizens and citizens! On March 29, 1990, the current Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted the Act on the Anthem of the Republic of Slovenia, making the text of the anthem the 7th kit of Prešernová Zdravljica a melody by the musical teacher and composer Stank Premrl. Although we remember today only if I may say so, the 25th anniversary of the adoption of the law, which has emplaced Zdravica as one of the central national and later national symbols, is the history of our anthem, namely the history of its creation and application as one of the three central national identification symbols, long and varied, similar to the long and varied path to our independence. Prešernova Zdravljica was created long before the creation of the Slovenian state. However, this current national political song from its inception was still irreplaceably linked to the Slovenian nation and its crucial historical moments. You could even say that she was ripe with the people. The prophetic and secular poet France Prešeren created it just a few years before the outbreak of the March Revolution; a revolution that had long-term consequences for us Slovenians. In it, then, is the power to feel the springing spirit of the nations, which was spreading as fire after the then empire. Because of the text, which was particularly far ahead of its time during that period and represents a kind of celebration of freedom, fraternity, equality and peaceful coexistence among the nations, Health has also taken for itself the national movement for the United Slovenia. The accent for which Stanko Premrl was credited was first made publicly in 1917, that is, in the year when the famous Majniska Declaration was symbolically read in the Vienna Parliament. During World War II, she was inspired by the national liberation fight, and in the end of the 1980s, as an anthem, she spontaneously gained her place in the Slovenian Republic Constitution, which was a function performed by the song from World War II onward. Your Honor! I regret that in recent years the spears have broken with regard to the text of the anthem, rather than being proud to have an anthem that goes beyond narrow national frameworks, that its text rises above the magnification of one nation and one country, and instead of carrying out fundamental and universal ideas of peace and cooperation, there is a series of infertile and unnecessary ideological bickering about which is more and which is less appropriate. From our country, a song that is supposed to connect us and unite us, divides us instead, and that's not good. As a whole, the Health Agency has several important messages, but I believe that its central message is exactly its timeless and always up-to-date call for nationalism, freedom, friendship, tolerance, peace and co-existence among nations — small and large; that is to say, the call for respect for fundamental values, which are also good 170 years after its creation, is still valid, and at the same time many are still unfulfilled. Dear representatives of the Government, colleagues and fellow Members, distinguished citizens and citizens! The Slovenian anthem celebrates 25 years. Let us be proud of her, take to heart her kind, contrite, and patriotic words, and lead them all into life for the good of us all. I thank you for your attention and invite you to listen to the Slovenian anthem in the performance of the Children's Assembly of Trnovo Primary School under the leadership of Mrs Bojana Glatz. Slovenian anthem Zdravica in the performance of the Children's Singing Assembly of Trnovo Primary School under the leadership of Mrs. Bojana Glatz.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u3	Thank you very much to the children's choir for their cooperation. / applause/ We're moving to 14. At the end of the day, it's on the eve of a proposal for a candidate for the Ministry of Education, Science and Sports. On 16 March 2015, Prime Minister Miro Cerar proposed that he be appointed Minister of Education, Science and Sport. Claudius Markez. I give the floor to the President of the Government, Dr. Mir Cerar, to further explain the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u4	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me first to say that it is a great joy and honor for me today to be present with the government at this event when we celebrate the 25th anniversary of our anthem. I think we have a great anthem, we have to be proud of it, and I hope that it will be heard as many times as possible in the future at home and in the world. Otherwise, you know that I am here today to base my proposal on the candidate for the new Minister of Education, Science and Sport. Today you will decide about this candidate and, as you know, I have proposed a mag to this responsible place. Claudius Markež, a member of the past, whom you all know well. Klaudija Markež is a graduate economist and master of science in the field of national and European sciences. She upgraded her knowledge with pedagogical-andragogical education and with a professional examination in the field of education and education. She gained her rich experience at the Ptuj Human University, where she worked differently from her professional co-worker, education organiser and lecturer in secondary education programmes to her lecturer in higher education curricula. Between 2004 and 2014, she was also entrusted with the post of Director of the Public Institute of the Human University of Ptuj, which is clear evidence that her work in the institution was recognized as good and responsible. It has also gained direct experience in the areas of organisation of work, management, business finances and European funds. When she was President of the Union of Human Universities of Slovenia between 2008 and 2012, she was the most important task of professional representation and integration of organisations at national level. It has successfully and effectively advocated the removal of bureaucratic barriers, the smooth financing of adult education and the systematic placement of adult education. In her work, she worked with the ministries and other development organisations and institutions. She left the public sector before her election in 2014 and decided to move to the economy. At the same time, it advocated the piloting of apprenticeships and other important development activities, which would help to fill the gap between the economy and the school system in the Republic of Slovenia. Even for a short period of time, since it has been elected as a member of the National Assembly, this experience is also an added value to its competence to manage this department. The candidate has already presented herself to you on the working body, where you can learn more about her views and the guidelines that will follow in her work as Minister. One of its priorities, and this seems very important to me, is the need for dialogue with all stakeholders in the education and training system and in the field of sport. She herself pointed out that she was not a person who would make decisions without reflection and dialogue. I think the path of life is magic. Claudius Markež shows that this is an appropriate candidate for this important resource in our government. I believe that it will follow and complement the policies of this government in its field, so I call on you to support its appointment as Minister of Education, Science and Sport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u5	I thank the Prime Minister for his further explanation. In accordance with Rule 230 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the candidate presented herself to the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth and responded to questions raised by members and members of the Committee. You have received the opinion of the committee. It concludes that the presentation of the proposed candidate was appropriate. The report of the committee will be presented by the president of the mag. I'm holding Bon Clanjschek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u6	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Ma'am mag. Ms Klaudija Markež, proposed for the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, presented herself at the 10th urgent meeting on 23 March 2015 to the members and members of the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth and answered their questions. In its opening presentation, the proposed candidate for the Minister presented her past work and some views on the area to be taken forward, highlighting priorities such as: the importance of dialogue with all stakeholders, the strengthening of the quality of education at all levels of the education system, the proper provision of transition opportunities and the establishment of quality models, cooperation with the economy and the response of the education system to the needs of the labour market, the integration of innovative thinking into the whole education process, the transformation of the curriculum of primary and secondary schools, the provision of conditions for strengthening the professional development of professional workers, the improvement of the management and management of schools, the implementation of comprehensive language policy, inter-sectoral integration and proactive cooperation, the development of inclusive education and the acquisition of equal opportunities for education, irrespective of social status, nationality or religious definition. In her presentation, the Minister's candidate also advocated the development of the work of children with special needs, as certain systemic solutions are needed: the system of financing arrangements and the adoption of the Higher Education Act, the introduction of an effective and uniform management system in the field of research activities, greater autonomy, responsibility and quality of institutions, and the operationalisation of research activities in accordance with the resolution, the introduction of apprenticeship models and also the effectiveness of European funds. Following the presentation of the Minister's candidate, the panellists and the panellists wanted more detailed answers to some questions. The candidate answered the questions raised and took note of her views, views and opinions at the meeting of the committee. A more detailed presentation of the candidate, the questions on the committee and the replies of the candidate are shown in the minutes of the committee's meeting. After the presentation, the Committee adopted the opinion by 10 votes to four, with four votes against, that the presentation of the proposed candidate mag. Claudius Markež is appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u7	I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u8	Your Honor! Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Council of Ministers, colleagues, colleagues! The Minister is first of all a politician, that is, a political official. However, it is highly desirable that he has, in addition to his work or professional experience in the field he will direct. For through the professional activities of the Ministry, which is guided and co-created by the senior members of the Cabinet of Ministers, directors of Directorates and heads of bodies, the political agenda, and in particular the political success of the individual Minister, is shown in the end. The candidate for Minister of Education, Science and Sport is in all segments quite an unwritten sheet. That's why we had a lot of questions for the SDS candidate at the hearing, but we got some answers. Political experience: the candidate is a good half-year-old, Prime Minister Miro Cerar said at the presentation that she was a very good Member. The review shows that the Member of Parliament has indeed responded there, and at a total of 9 urgent and 7 regular meetings of the Education Committee, she has responded exactly once. She may be good, but she is not speaking yet, at least in an area she is likely to command from now on — a rather bad journey. At the hearing, we heard that he had no other political experience at the local level. In six months, no candidate has written any law, no amendment, but tomorrow, the matter will be different. The candidate, or probably the future minister, will be preparing laws, amendments and all of this, or she will be a carrier of opposition laws and will seek alibis for why the laws of the opposition are not good. Probably the first reason they're not systemic. However, the explanation will, of course, be that the Ministry is already preparing systemic solutions. If the candidate is almost an unwritten political paper, we hoped that in addition to smiling from political struggles she would be solved by professional knowledge, because we are talking about a minister who will give pace to areas such as preschool education, primary school, secondary school, university, university, science, development, information society, adult education, sport, youth and probably something else. However, the candidate has experience from only one segment, the management of the Ptuj Human University in 2004-2014 as director, and this is also in the media to hear clues and information that it was a disputed departure which was supposed to be linked to certain financial and management decisions in dispute. And of course, in 2008-2012 the candidate was the President of the Union of Human Universities of Slovenia, where it was a fifth job. In the SDS, we hoped that the candidate was professionally and politically engaged at least in the local area, but also to a direct such question at the candidate's hearing, she did not boast of such experiences. Too bad, it's obviously a bad traveller. Because if the candidate thinks that the slightly more unfavourable issues of the opposition Members are something of the worst, in the SDS Group, we suggest and advise in good faith that, if she wants to change anything in all the areas she covers, or wants to leave her stamp anywhere, she should be thoroughly prepared because she works, but also those blows under the belt. We all know that the budget is increasingly empty, the unions will probably be on their feet, the young people will want more, the athletes will also, science and development are more deprived every year after 2009, and they will want more resources, all the other stakeholders will want solutions immediately and they will be eligible. And the answers in the sense that we've heard, I welcome, we'll discuss, we'll connect, I'll support, I won't ignore, I'll work hard, I'll talk, I'll study, I'll coordinate, I'll review, they won't convince anyone, they won't bring anyone a solution. Perhaps only if, of course, the Minister does not want to change or do anything, which is what you said, Madam Candidate, unfortunately you have already made a partial announcement, but also with the answer that the team at the Ministry is good and that you will not change it. Well, if you don't change it, there are already the first names of exchanges in individual places within the Ministry in the media. If a candidate for a minister doesn't hit the table with her hand and ask for her solutions, the ministry will be run by others: whether officials who know the system until they reach or someone outside. The secretary on her way out probably won't help you because she's going to the safe haven of the university and the author's fees. The V.D. Minister and at the same time the President of the Government is the same calibre: the author's fees, and then the interest in the Ministry ends. In the SDS Group, we hope that at least at this time the candidate has looked closely at the Ministry's website, which will run it: from the Ministry's recorded priorities to all services within the Ministry, and then where are the directors, deans, teachers, professors and other stakeholders. There was a lot of talk about these stakeholders at the hearing – connected, collaborated, etc. You know, then there's the unions, the students, the athletes, the young. In short, he works on different interests more than too. A respected candidate, a huge professional, and above all, a political leap awaits you. Because soon it will be forgotten that you are not a doctor of science, although even in the SDS we do not see any obstacles, that someone without a doctorate would not be able to perform an executive function. Moreover, for this government we sometimes feel that a doctor's name is a weakness rather than an advantage. On the other hand, the fact that journalists have been waiting for more than ten days for the candidate's response, why her master's tasks have not been found in the COBISS system. Four days after the hearing, as we were promised to get an answer, there is still no such thing. Maybe he's just a bad pierre, but maybe he's backing up with some sort of master's job, and he's waiting, of course, to forget the matter, or that someone's gonna stand up for their reputation and save the candidate that there's nothing at stake. We have seen this in the previous term. In short, in the SDS we hope that this issue regarding the publication of the Master's Order will be resolved. In the SDS Group, we barely heard any specific comments in five hours. Specific promises, as has already been said, and commitments in terms of that and that, then and then, and so on, and unfortunately we have not waited. At the hearing, we may have enjoyed the fact that the Minister of Private Education does not want to completely destroy or bury him, as some others have said, even though she did not answer her own questions about the Constitutional Court decision, which refers to the 100 % funding of primary schools. Moreover, with regard to the Higher Education Act, it was not possible to decide on any of the proposed concepts, except in order to give a concrete answer as to whether research activity would be included in the Higher Education Act. Well, unfortunately, the candidate for the question of domestic consciousness and education said that she did not see anything wrong with the pioneer children’s dress, because if it was a domestic subject, it was allowed. Incomprehensible and unfortunately harmful. In the SDS, we hope that the next Minister's response in this area will be slightly different. From the field of sport and youth, the answers were in terms of how nice it is to have sport and top athletes and, of course, that young people should be supported, which sounds good, but has no effect in practice. As if the matter had been resolved or put in a drawer until the end of the term of office. Well, of course, unless we ask you again about the attitude of alcohol pouring at sports events, where the candidate replied that she does not have the tolerance to pour alcohol and that she sees no need to pour alcoholic beverages at sports events. She said, quote: "I support the recommendations of the World Health Organization and my pure life philosophy is that we can enjoy fantastic sports events, even without consuming certain amounts of alcohol." In half an hour, pictures were already rounded around the world when the candidate for minister, probably at the biggest sports event in Slovenia, held a glass of beer in her hands. Weak pyar, moment of weakness, or we can continue the classical policy of this government, where there are one word and the other acts. Dear candidate, if you are listening to us, I may have been in some position in the SDS Group's position, but it was well-meaning, because if you are shaken by a statement from opposition members, you do not know what awaits you in the daily fights with other stakeholders in your department. We tell you out loud, in public and in the face. The ring in which you step will be much tougher, crueler and more backward, so sometimes it will be necessary to remove the smile, to have boxing gloves, to choose and listen to the right counselors and associates, to prepare life measures and to implement them in the end; so decide to give the names and dates of implementation to the issue. In our concern for a better position of all stakeholders in the field covered by the Minister, we are prepared to hear from the SDS Minister about her proposals. To support good proposals, but to criticize poorly clearly and loudly. Dear Minister, good luck!
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u9	He's got Dr. McKinley on trial. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. I'm really in the opposition, and I'm not going to defend a candidate for a minister, but I can say that I've already had beer with two-thirds of the SDS in a bar of Parliament and another drink, and if I were to paint them, I might as well beat them, and I won't. Drinking culture is, of course, something that we have to start working on in Slovenia. Alcohol is a problem, it's a socially accepted drug with us. It causes a lot more pain than yesterday's marriage, but that's what I mean, under the belt. Sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u11	I cannot consider this to be procedural, so I ask that you use this procedurally for a second time. At the same time, as far as content is concerned, we take note of this. I give the text to the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia. Mr. Primoz Hainz has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u12	Mr President and the Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to read the position of the Desus Group on the candidate for Minister of Education, Science and Sport of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Today we have a candidate, our colleague, a parliamentary mag. Claudius Marquez. The candidate successfully presented herself to us at the meeting of the parent working body and her work and thinking we had the opportunity to learn even at the time she was a member, so our decision is actually easy. We'll support the candidate. In the Desus Group, we are particularly interested in how the candidate looks at lifelong learning, which is also one of the fundamental principles of European Union policy. The Europe 2020 strategy puts education among the key levers to ensure the so-called smart growth of one of the three key objectives of the strategy itself. We live in a time of lifelong learning, Slovenia already has its own strategy, but it is about its full implementation. We have also raised this question to the ministers at Monday's hearing and we are pleased that the candidate knows this area well. Let me mention that we find it very encouraging to have a candidate's fondness for intergenerational cooperation, especially in terms of knowledge transfer between generations and supporting initiatives on intergenerational centres to be created through development funds. The new financial perspective also mentions the upgrading of lifelong learning centres, which would offer people opportunities for free education, opening the door to all, including low-income pensioners. At the same time, it is also important to transfer knowledge and overcome differences between generations, which means that young people can learn from older people and vice versa. Older ones have a number of important skills that young people need, and this is not to be ignored. One such small practice is the case of the Simbioz project. He would also touch primary and secondary education. In the Desus Group, we believe that in the Slovenian educational system, especially in primary and secondary schools, there is too much emphasis on the quantity of learning and the lack of quality. Thus, children are overburdened, but unfortunately they do not get more knowledge because too much of the curriculum does not allow it. We all believe that our children need to get as much knowledge as possible, but students and teachers are often running out of time to think, to interpret, and especially to interpret and to understand the philosophy of each subject. We hope Mrs. Mag. Markež also bit that sour apple in her mandate. Science must serve man as an individual and society as a whole in all respects. Each country takes care of its progress and thus contributes to progress on a global scale. In view of the serious warnings on the situation in the field of the scientific and research sphere concerning financial malnutrition, not the best or insufficiently successful recovery of European funds and the departure of successful researchers abroad, and in the Desus Group, we believe that it is urgent to act quickly, but also with soundness of mind in this area, so that in our country we get a well-established strategy for the development of science and research. The continued withdrawal of the importance of science and research on robbery can lead to the serious consequences of our social development, so in the Desus Group we are convinced that an effective, strategically positioned, responsive and open research and innovation system and the social promotion of science is more than a necessary and priority task. However, it is not an easy resort taken over by a candidate for a minister during this time, especially in the so-called light of the affair with fees disclosed by certain anomalies in higher education, so in the Group of Members we expect that the future Minister will immediately undertake the preparation of the Higher Education Act, which various drafts of which have been laid down in the Ministry's handicrafts. The Ministry of Education, Science and Sport covers a very wide range of issues of child protection, university, science and sport. This is one of the most important and exposed sources for which there is never enough financial resources. Let me do it again. The Desus Group will support the mag. Ms Klaudio Markež as candidate for Minister of Education, Science and Sport unanimously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u13	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matjaž Germany.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u14	Dear President, distinguished ministerial team, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished public! Every child is the most important. In society, the accepted fact of the Social Democrats is summed up as the basic principle of our education and education programme. Every day, regardless of the social situation of the family or the environment from which it comes, we are obliged to ensure that it fully develops all its potential. Social Democrats in this regard are particularly reminded of the need to ensure the inclusion of children from less positive, social and family relations, disadvantaged groups, children with special needs. We believe that conditions must be provided in an accessible, inclusive, quality public education. Last but not least, Article 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia defines this as a social state. In the Group of Social Democrats, we express our support for everyone acting within the framework of that basic concept. We estimate that she's a candidate for Minister Mag. Klaudija Markež expressed, to a large extent, the position that is relatively close to us at the presentation on the committee. The policy is so marked by the gap between the statement at the declaration level and the spillover of life, however, by caution, which does not allow us to be assured of unwavering support. This is how we announce our candidates' readiness for constructive cooperation, and we also expect to be sensitive to the proposals and initiatives of the Group of Social Democrats. Immediately after the oath, the candidate faces some important challenges. In order to make it a little easier for us to face them and to benefit from our future cooperation, we will continue to provide some good advice. The first test of the strength of the views expressed, on which the consensus of the political public cannot be reached, is already on the agenda of the National Assembly. In the coming weeks and months, we will decide on the status of education in Slovenia. Proponents of the amendments, encouraged by the decision of five judges of the Constitutional Court, submitted a proposal for the gradual release of public primary education. Social Democrats are expected to strongly oppose the ideological and political hurricane, which, with its force, has the foundations of a social state. We therefore place the strongest weapons in her hands to support her – the proposal to complement the Constitution. Together with fellow thinkers in favour of maintaining quality and accessible primary education, we have invested in the consideration of the National Assembly. Clearly, on the Constitution, a fundamental expression of primary concern for public education, which until recently also benefited from institutional support, is a prerequisite for providing everyone with education in an unladen environment committed to quality and accessibility. Public education must maintain the position of the only form of primary education with constitutional protection. The proposal for a constitutional supplement guarantees that private forms of primary education will not be enriched by the absorption of the fabric of public primary schools. That is why it needs to be supported, otherwise we will leave primary education to selected ideological, political and capitalist predator elites who will pursue their narrow partisan goals. In the past, some have tried to achieve such goals in the field of higher education. Let us just remember the stories of the award of concessions by some, some of them even received epilogues in court. We therefore expect the candidate to follow the assumption that the public interest will also be realized in further procedures for the preparation of the proposal for a law on higher education. In doing so, we draw attention to the position of the public concerned that the draft from the time of former Minister Jerne Pikal should serve as the starting point. Leadership must remain: ensure that everyone is free of higher education at least once, whenever in their lives, and strengthen the stability of the environment for the prosperity of scientific research activities, for the unequivocal primary care of the public. The work of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport covers the most important and at the same time the most fragile subsystems of society and any change must therefore be considered, professionally justified and coordinated among all stakeholders. Predictability provided by strategic documents adopted in the National Assembly in the past periods, such as national programmes in the field of higher education, research, innovation, sport, adult education and youth, is crucial. Therefore, we expect the candidate to listen both to the applicable rules and to the suggestions and comments of the interested or professional public. In the Social Democrats Group, we therefore expect the candidate to strengthen the Government's awareness that strong support for the education and education system is the only real opportunity for Slovenia's socio-economic breakthrough. We hope that in government negotiations, in particular on budgetary documents, it will be successful in ensuring the importance of educational and scientific research activities for the future of this country. She's a candidate for Minister Mag. Claudius Markež enjoys our support. However, this is not conditional, as is the case with any other member of the cabinet, but depends on its practical implementation at the declaration level. But we believe the lady will be a magician. Claudius Markež is a good minister, so the Social Democrats will unanimously support her. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u15	The word is given by the Group of Members of the United Left, for her Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u16	Honourable President, Honourable Council of Ministers and distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Members of the United Left of Klaudije Markež, the candidates for the City of Minister of Education, Science and Sport, we will not be supported. To be honest, Claudius Markež is not a suitable candidate for the Minister of Education. It is not appropriate in terms of the development of public education and research, but it is not doubtful that it will be suitable for the execution of further cuts and the commercialisation of higher education in particular. Her presentation on the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth has revealed insufficient knowledge of the areas and you are often opposed to key issues. As a priority, Klaudija Markež has set herself the development of professional staff. Clearly, she did not think of this as a Member when she supported the extension of the ZUJF, which imposes a ban on employment and promotion in the public sector. It is also unaware of the 1 % annual reduction in the number of employees under the Budget Implementation Act. Let us hope that, as Minister, she will be better acquainted with the legislation and its impact on the school system. Both ZUJF and ZIPRS are key to human resources problems in the public sector, but according to the applicant, the human resources situation in education is satisfactory, as it is said to be protected by standards. Why should human resources development be regulated if standards are already in place? It is obvious that the candidate does not know and understand the situation in education and science. The candidate advocates research, says that the area of the doctoral study is not yet familiar with it, and the doctoral course is not intended to be abolished. Hence, they will continue to study only those who can pay for it, not those who can. At the same time, Markeževa, as a Member, supported the 2015 budget balance, which reduced research resources and young researchers. There's no problem with that. The opposition between actions, support for cuts, and words, defending the importance of research – allow me a slight cynicism – is obviously a prerequisite for running for Cerar's government. The candidate will preserve the privileges of academic elites, which are so well represented by her predecessor, and the democratic deficit of the university. The problem of exploiting vicious, often young academics is not at all familiar with the problem, despite the fact that it is one of the fundamental problems of university space. The candidate strongly advocates public education. He says that the quality of public education is important, but Klaudija Markež also supports private education funded by public funds. Of course, don't forget to highlight neoliberal mantras on economic integration. She boasts that she has left the public sector for this purpose and has entered the economy. The subjugation of education and science to capital will obviously continue under the new Minister. How this goes with the university's autonomy, she's the only one who knows. But it is obvious that it does not even recognize this fundamental conflict, by defending the autonomy of the university, we and the world of the movement of employees and students face the pressure of politics and the market to transform education into a support pillar of private economic interests. All these are mere drops into the sea of contradictions and illogicality that testify to the inadequacy of the candidate for the City of Minister of Education, Science and Sport. The SMC, Desus and SD coalition and their government with Mir Cerar led by candidate Klavdija Markež prove that he wants to maintain the status quo in the field of education, science and sport. To preserve the privileges of academic elites and, on the other hand, to squeeze teachers, poker academics and researchers with savings cuts. To continue subjugating the logic of the market and thus further reduce the quality and accessibility of education for all people, taking Slovenia further to the periphery and deeper into underdevelopment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u17	The text is given by the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats, for which Mrs Ljudmila Novak has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u18	Mr President, ministers and ministers, candidate for Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The field of work of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport is very extensive. Rare ministers managed to regulate all these areas in a balanced manner. I find it difficult to assess how successful our candidate today will be, and in this position I will present in particular some of the fundamental expectations of Christian Democrats regarding the candidate's future work. First, let me point out the first and very important task – the Law on the Organisation and Financing of Education and Education, or its 86th Article. You will have to correct this by the end of this year at the latest in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. This decided that the financing of the programme in private primary schools implementing a public primary school programme should be equal to national primary schools. The current situation, when most of the first receive only 85% co-financing of the programme, while others 100%, is unconstitutional and Christian Democrats have been alerted to this for a long time. We fear, however, that some will try to destroy this decision again with different circuits. We hope that if you are confirmed, you will comply with the Constitutional Court's decision. Quality private education is just a supplement, a state education upgrade and offers a choice, and it does not in any way jeopardise a good system of state schools. Christian Democrats are constantly, according to their programme, trying to fit the content of recent Slovenian history into school curriculums of primary and secondary schools. I hope that you will listen more to our proposals and see that this is necessary. The history of Slovenia alone is often dealt with superficially, marginally, and consequently Slovenians, unfortunately also some of our Members, do not know enough about national holidays, the functioning of the political system, the state institutions, and we are not least aware of our civic duties and rights. We also advocate the introduction of the subject of civic and domestic education and ethics in secondary schools. High school students have pointed out that such an object is missing and that they are seeing an ever-increasing apathy that is reflected in the increasingly low participation in elections and in the absence of youth participation in public and political life. It's a college law. The Prime Minister of the former government, Dr. Pikalo, prepared it and put it under public scrutiny, and the change of government stopped it again. Christian Democrats warn that higher education teachers and researchers do not have the same status. While higher education teachers have regular salaries, we have also heard that some take care of large additional fees, researchers have to apply for their work on projects and at the same time work even on several projects to ensure their basic salary. This slowly degrades the field of research. Respectable candidate! We expect you to offer a comprehensive solution to these problems for the benefit of all stakeholders as soon as possible. We also expect the country's vision in the field of humanities that researchers will be able to work on this basis. We Christian Democrats believe that it is one of the essential tasks of the Minister to ensure the normal work of the councils of public educational and educational institutions. The rapid involvement of daily policy must be prevented, which unfortunately is happening too often. Several times, at the time of the election of the director, even on the very day of the election, it has been possible to replace the members of the boards of institutions quickly in order to confirm the directors of a particular political option. In doing so, it is easy to overlook the opinion of the collective. This is an abuse the secretary must prevent. Madam candidate Klaudija Markež, colleague and colleague! Members of New Slovenia - Christian Democrats will not object to the proposal of a candidate for Minister of Education, Science and Sport. We hope that, as Minister, she will also be able to take into account the views of teachers and educators, as well as the parents and organisations representing students, students, students and researchers, and, through consultation, to take the right steps for the benefit of our young people. We do not want to judge your work in advance, although you do not have specific references to this important function, but we hope that under your tactics our education will not go back because our young people deserve good schools to be competitive in difficult times.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u19	The word is given by the Alliance's Group of Ambassadors, a magi for him. I'm holding Bon Clanjschek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Today we are discussing and deciding on the proposal of the Prime Minister of the Government of Dr Mir Cerar as the new Minister of Education, Science and Sport. Even though she's a candidate mag. As a Member of Parliament, Klaudija Markež has been sitting among us for several months, and we cannot say that we know her work so well that we can judge her suitability as Minister. It is therefore more important for us to know its views and views on the area that we are about to lead into the future. The Minister-designate presented in general her views on the challenges she will face in the new job and, although she has highlighted some of the priorities and stressed that her work will be based on dialogue, we are convinced that certain positions on the many challenges ahead of our education should be taken more clearly. Among these views, it is certainly a matter of financing private and public education. We are convinced in the Alliance that we must do everything we can to prevent the privatisation of public education. In the Alliance, we do not oppose the limited funding of private primary schools implementing a public education programme, as they enrich the school space with different pedagogy or allow parents to train their children in institutions with the same global view that they raise their children. But we do not agree to impoverish the network of public primary schools because of the latter. Private schools can therefore, in our opinion, only be co-financed to a limited extent in the manner prescribed by the law. We are convinced that this ensures equality and equivalence at the level of the State approach to education in general. At the hearing, she briefly mentioned, among other things, that she would not neglect children, primary schoolchildren and students with special needs. This certainly makes us happy, but we expect more from this kind prediction. We expect systemic measures that will fully address the problem of children with special needs. The decision taken by the Committees of the National Assembly just last week will eventually fall on the new Minister's shoulders, as the systematic management of the needs of children also includes their education. We also expect Mrs. Mag to be a magician. Klaudija Markež, as the new minister, found suitable solutions to the problems that led to her becoming a candidate for the minister and who became her predecessors. We all agreed that the problems in the field of professor's foreign earnings should be addressed systematically, and the new Minister is now awaiting an important task of implementing these systemic measures. There are many immediate and feasible measures that could be taken by the new Minister and are of great importance to us. Among them is the problem of reading literacy and professional development of teaching workers, as well as the project of a modern Slovenian language dictionary and others. Since all these and many other open questions were not answered during the hearing, we expect the new Minister to provide the answers to them in the first months of her work. We sincerely hope that the expectations that we have for schoolchildren, students and students will be met, even excused. We will therefore not vote against her appointment, but abstain from voting. We thus give her the opportunity to provide our greater support with her work. Perhaps with good work and real moves in the coming months, she will gain our greater support. But let me add this to the end. At the first meeting of the Education Committee, we had a hearing with a candidate for the Minister. Also on the 10th. I sincerely hope that we will not be interrogating at the next round, this is the 20th session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u21	The word is given by the Italian and Hungarian National Communities Group, Dr. Lászlo Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Respectable members or representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! The role of Minister or Minister of Education, Science and Sport is one of the very responsible tasks of the executive branch, as the powers of this department relate to very difficult content, which I mention only the education system vertically, from kindergarten to secondary education, higher education, science and research and sports. In the context of these areas, in substance and formal terms, in particular, from the perspective of the way in which the activities are carried out, we can break this matter down into further areas, sub-systems and other content. In particular, I would like to point out that in the case of the appointment of a minister or a minister of this department, this is an extremely responsible task. Given the complexity and diversity of this department, the question of what expertise and competence a candidate or candidate should have for its management may be justified. I have no doubt that the Prime Minister himself has thought about this in depth when he was looking for a candidate or candidate for this post in a rather pressing situation due to events that led to a change in the management of the ministry. There is probably no single answer to the question of suitability for this function. It has been suggested that one of the top experts in one of the areas under the so-called school ministry would be more suitable, which is probably true to some extent. There is, however, another side of the medal; therefore, is it not better to have some general knowledge of all the above-mentioned content while at the same time having the ability to manage and manage public institutions and having experience in terms of handling European and other means. In short, we probably all agree to some extent that it is almost impossible to find an ideal candidate, so they can be even less good, good or better. Of course, this is no surprise, too, if political and party affiliation is decisive in the choice. Despite all the allegations and dilemmas in our Group, we hope that this time the President of the Government had a happy hand in his choice. As far as I have been able to follow the responses of Ms Markež's candidate at the meeting of her mother's working body, I believe that her vision was clear and acceptable on certain issues. It has highlighted some priorities that are certainly urgent and right in this area. Despite the difficult financial situation of the public sector, it has advocated the continuity of upgrading the primary and secondary education system, with emphasis on taking professional arguments into account. This task is one of the central functions of the Ministry and therefore it is already important to take a principled approach to the competent minister. She also stressed the need to complete the Higher Education Act, in which she may not yet have a comprehensive vision, which, according to a very short period of time, i.e. the deadline for preparation, and the complexity of this area, is understandable to some extent. In our view, it will also be necessary to make a wise decision on the setting up of a more successful system of scientific research or activities, with many more issues being raised among the most competent professions. In short, there are a number of issues in this area that will need to be decided next month. These are: whether it will be more appropriate to adopt a comprehensive law on higher education, including solutions to research activities, or whether it will make sense to divide this important material into a university law and other parts of higher education or higher education and, in particular, from higher education in general, there is no fully differentiated regulation of scientific and research activities, despite some different thinking through solutions to better integration with the economy, and could also mention the importance or areas and issues in this regard. Let us hope that, in these challenges, the overall competence of the candidate will certainly be an advantage. On the one hand, successful decisions will need a high degree of tolerance and, on the other hand, a significant degree of determination and rationality. Irregularities in respect of enormous fees and other earnings of individuals also require clear positions of the future minister as soon as possible. I must also stress the area of education in areas where indigenous national communities live. The systems or models that have been established in the past decades with the Hungarian and Italian national communities are different. Both models have many specific areas, but the most important thing is that both of them receive thorough system upgrades because today, if we sincerely assess their basic mission, only partially part of the task of maintaining or maintaining the existence and development of these communities. This finding is not an exaggeration, which is also confirmed by the competent services of the Ministry and the competent professional institution, and therefore it has already come to the mentioned system-wide upgrade of both systems, with the Ministry supporting it. It is important to understand that both models need continuous, substantive upgrades and adjustment to increasing demographic and methodological challenges. In addition to systemic issues, there are also open issues in this area in the field of investment, non-useable real estate, education of teaching staff and could also be listed. With regard to my questions of this kind, the candidate demonstrated an acceptable level of awareness of the problem and promised continuity in the implementation of the system-wide upgrading of models and the resolution of open issues. This played a decisive role in our parliamentary group's decision on its support in today's vote. The future minister wants a lot of strong and professionally well-founded decisions and, of course, happiness and satisfaction in her difficult work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u23	Mrs Irena Kotnik has the floor for her.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u24	Dear President, Honourable President, members of the Government and distinguished colleagues! In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we place education and education, higher education, research and development and sport as a fundamental policy for a man who is one of the key building blocks of society. In view of this, we estimate that these are areas that significantly determine the development of an individual as well as of society as a whole. While advocating a system of education and education that will develop an open, creative, confident, pervasive and solidarity-based citizen and citizen, the choice of a suitable and competent ministerial candidate or candidate in this area is particularly important. We believe that the proposed candidate in the field of the field on the one hand has a number of experience, knowledge and competences, on the other hand motivation, will, desire and determination to manage everything before the simple area. Last but not least, it also showed this in a presentation before the competent parental committee. In her work so far, she has always been in direct contact with the educational system, and in particular has gained extensive experience in adult education. It advocated a successful system-wide regulation of adult education, its funding and the removal of bureaucratic barriers to European funding. We also welcome its rich experience in linking the educational process with the needs of the labour market and the economy. In fact, we are pleased that the response of education to changes in society and the needs of the labour market is an important area that needs to be rewinded at systemic level, as this is the only way to put ourselves in line with successful European countries where the links between the economy and the school system work successfully and effectively. We're sure the candidate for the secretary is the same. We also believe that the candidate will take full responsibility and professionalism to other systemic reforms that the entire area of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport requires. Last but not least, she demonstrated her willingness to cooperate, dialogue and hard work by working in the parliamentary group. We trust a candidate in the Modern Centre Group. We trust that by its expertise and positive approach it will be able to successfully lead the way between all obstacles, between the obstacles that are and will be put in the future. Only in this way will we be able to follow a fundamental human policy, which, as has already been said, is one of the key social builders and where we also include education and education, research and sport. In view of this, we will be in the SMC Mag Group. Klaudio Markež, candidate for Minister of Education, Science and Sport, also supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u25	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. The word is from Dr. Franz Križanič, get Mr. Joseph Horvat ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u26	Thank you, President. Dear High Council! Members of the Social Democrats, we will be mags. Ms Klaudijo Markež supported her candidacy for Minister of Education, Science and Sport. Claudius Markež and I have already worked together since the President of the Union of Human Universities, we have appreciated her work, her ability to draw on various resources, her management experience, her focus on solving the problem of financing educational activities, even where not automatically all funds are provided, her ability to manage crisis management in various cases, so we think that in fact this function even falls under such a profile; a true woman, younger, optimistic, comes where the sector has been affected by an excessive savings programme. Because the ZUJF is not only a law that has limited certain incomes, which may have made sense in those, we consider the ZUJF to be a law that has reduced public finances by 400 million and thereby significantly cut into the functioning of social sub-systems in Slovenia. The crisis of these subsystems, which is now being dragged and experienced as a crisis in the economy, is not, it is not a national economic crisis, it is a crisis of subsystems that can only be passed into the economic crisis, it comes from this excessive cut for the economy at the post-industrial level of development. The educational system, science and sport have a special place here, on the one hand, allowing accessibility as a basic lever for equality in a society, as a basic lever for creating prosperity in this society, openness, transition, depending on how much talent a person has, or energy, to be able to educate and then, if I may say so, to engage his human capital further in production processes. Secondly, the issue is that it is a strategic area that determines the quality of the entire operation of the national economy. When the competitiveness of such an economy is based on knowledge, it is practically the only resource that generates quality. Everything else, natural wealth, favourable position, cheap work, is secondary. Perhaps comparable to safety; when security falls — and this is now seen in the case of large losses of material or assets due to cheap sales — then this quality will not produce the same results as expected. Thus, in this area, Mrs Klaudija Markež is coming into a system where she will have to deal with a whole range of problems on a project basis. In primary education, this is the reputation and autonomy of teaching and then problems with regard to teaching aid, with music education, with discipline, probably with more effective integration of the Roma population. Then, in the field of higher education and science, of course, the acute problem of halving young researchers, halving resources for scientific research. Then solve problems related to the whole Bologna study, solve problems related to the subsidisation of the doctoral study, in particular where it makes sense where it is not financed by the direct economy or by the institutions that send people to this study. And then also the problem that has already been mentioned several times, the fees that employees receive in the public sector and are also employed in the public sector without allowing for any greater material basis for the institutions from which they come. I think she will have a permanent mission in the field of her work to ensure the reputation of teachers, their autonomy, the autonomy of sports. In the field of sport, there will be problems if the sale continues as it runs recklessly so that the sponsors will slowly disappear. The question is whether this system, which has given us extraordinary results, which we are looking forward to, which did not come about by accident, will be created in an environment that can finance and enable us to see whether this system will be able to find any new solutions. In the field of higher education and science, he has the worst problems he has left the ZUJF. Here, of course, the process itself is more flexible by nature, so it is the easiest and quickest to cut and this cutting is still going on, but it will have disastrous consequences in the future. Clearly, when we responded to the crisis, we responded by increasing resources for research and development in both the public sector and the economy from about 1.5% to 2.6% of gross domestic product. This was an important lever of these current export successes, the creation of new companies, and whatever you want. That's what we're missing now, and in a few years, it's gonna have devastating consequences if there's no magic. However, Claudius Markež managed to reverse the ship here. She will no doubt be the one who will have to lead these activities. We're on funding. I do not think that the whole sector can be financed by substantially lower amounts at our level of development, both education and higher education, science and sport, as was the case in 2011. Later, they must also generate about the same share or obtain about the same share of gross domestic product as comparable developed economies. In this case, we will continue to be a competitive company with large surpluses in external trade, a financier, an exporter of capital and an important member of the European Union and a reputable country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u27	Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Get Mr. Kamal Izidor Shaker ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u28	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I do not object to the President of the Government, Dr. Mir Cerar, deciding today's fellow MP mags. Klavdijo Markež to name, in a political sense of course, the first lady of the Slovenian educational system, science and sport. There is also a Directorate for the Information Society within the structure of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. Unfortunately, we also do not have a Directorate for the Digital Economy, and it would be good, obviously, that we do not really understand the strategy for the development of the Europe 2020 strategy, where the Digital Agenda for Europe is crucial. A successful European digital economy is one of the foundations for growth and employment in the European Union. It is also crucial for the modernisation of the traditional industry. Let me just say this. At the Directorate for Information Society within the Ministry are strong people, there are excellent experts who know what the Digital Agenda for Europe is and know how to implement it in Slovenia, unfortunately, at least so far, they have not had enough support within the Ministry or within the government. That's my colleague for today, mag. Claudius Markež, the first call and a sincere appeal to move things around in this area. Revenues of EUR 500 billion are estimated for additional growth and a substantial increase in jobs in Europe, so New Slovenia - Christian Democrats as well as the European People's Party in the European Parliament are working hard to complete the Digital Single Market. How long does it have to be done? By 2015, In other words, we want to encourage our citizens to create innovative online services at competitive prices, of course, and to facilitate access for businesses, especially small and medium-sized ones, to cross-border markets. In terms of better understanding, in this regard we want the rules of the classic if you want to translate the off-line business environment into rules for the digital economy or, if you want, for the online business world. The Republic of Slovenia has been comparatively declining over a decade and a half following the development of the information society, which clearly has a negative impact on other development areas. The problem is due to substantial underinvestment in the development of the information society and to a lack of general awareness of the importance of information and communication technologies and the Internet for the development of the economy, the country and society as a whole. European competitors have invested more and more systematically all this time, which is reflected in faster development progress than we have been able to make in the Republic of Slovenia. By misusing ICT and the Internet in development efforts, we as a company give up the development potential offered by ICT, i.e. information and communication technology, and the Internet. If we do not immediately stop this practice, there will continue to be a development lagging behind for those countries which give these areas the highest priority. To build broadband internet links in areas where there is no commercial interest, €65 million is provided under the Structural Funds. To build a whole network in Slovenia would require about 300 million euros, almost five times more in money. So, the question for the future minister: How can we provide the missing funds? Number – I will continue to talk about cybersecurity, which is extremely important – the number of cyber attacks is increasing every year. Otherwise, it is Slovenia's computer emergency response team, and it is a national response centre for dealing with incidents in the field of security of electronic networks and information operating on Arnes, and it has the same number of employees throughout the years and the means of operation are even decreasing. Again, the question for today is my colleague, tomorrow for Madam Minister: How to ensure sufficient cyber security in Slovenia, which is of paramount importance? Umar, in the 2004 development report, recommends reading, states that in 2012 only a 12.5% share of investments in ICT was among all investments in research, development and innovation, which represents a significantly lower share of other European countries' investments. Slovenia's backlog in investment in research, development and innovation in the ICT sector has a direct negative impact on economic growth and jobs, even more so in times of economic crisis. Providing industry support to promote research, development, innovation in ICT is therefore a necessary measure to achieve the objectives of the European Digital Agenda and to exploit the opportunities offered by ICT to achieve lasting economic and social benefits. I have repeated and talked several times about the presentation of the previous President of the European Commission, Mr Barroso, when he presented the Digital Agenda for Europe and when I made extrapolation for Slovenia out of his numbers and curves, I found that the Digital Agenda for Europe, implemented in Slovenia, opens up by 2016, including the new 3 000 600 jobs for ICT engineers, so no jobs – nothing happens in this area. I think that, if not the first day and the second day, the future minister should sit down with experts, with colleagues from the Directorate for Digital or Information Society, and make up a strategy to make up for the delay. Maybe a few more general questions. I have already said several times that I regret that a candidate for a minister cannot sit here, and if not with a ministerial assembly, we can be here next to me, let's just say, at least listen to what we want for her. We are here to be well-intentioned that we are constructive and that we want to be good to countries and citizens. So we need to address this flaw in the rules of procedure. I would like to ask her to consider whether we are rich enough to buy from the state budget or from municipal budgets of land for primary schools and kindergartens, that we are a rich enough country to invest in walls, marble, granite cubes and so on – so that we invest in hardware – would we not invest more in software? You all know what I'm getting at. I aim at greater competitiveness throughout our educational system, from kindergarten to universities, and aim to open the door to private education. All of this will be a public education, because many do not understand or understand this, all of this will be a public education, which, of course, will be controlled and supervised by the Minister. But the question is, who do you hire to invest in walls? It seems foolish to me that the state budget invests money that it doesn't have in walls, in parcels and so on. Here I place this thought on her heart, and perhaps it would not hurt to invite the opposition to think about it. I conclude with a well-known fact that, as Minister, she will decide many things at government meetings. Our fellow Member and future minister comes from the economy, perhaps from a very specific environment, where she knows her own anomalies. I was wondering if she'd set them off at the government to get rid of them. We have anomalies in the law on elections, on local elections, and colleague Claudius knows that in the municipality where she worked, 250 foreigners, of course citizens of the European Union who can vote locally, may live there just that week when local elections are held and elect a mayor. Which means that everyone there from 250 at this address can only have a few square decimeters or a few square centimeters. This is an anomaly, colleagues and colleagues that we must remove if this removal is not triggered by the future Minister of Mag. Claudius Markež, then the opposition will do it. I conclude with a genuine sincere desire that everything I've listed succeeds and more, and in doing so, of course, in her work, in a very important mission, I wish her much success. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u29	Mr Kamal Izidor Shaker has the floor to prepare Mr Andrej Chuš.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! Before I begin, for the reason stated by Mr Horvat that our candidate does not have to sit here and defend herself, she can also sit next to you before I begin my presentation, to reject the previously exposed evidence of the inaccessibility of the master's part of the Magi. Claudius Marquez. In fact, the Faculty of State and European Studies does not publish master's works electronically and online. But if anyone is interested, you can find this master's degree in the library of that university or in the National University Library, as likely all of them. Over and over again, we find that the education sector is one of the key and most extensive areas. The Ministry of Education, Science and Sport operates within its competences in the fields of labour market and working conditions of youth, science, sport and education. It shall exercise these powers together with the bodies in the composition of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Youth and the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Education and Sport. At the level of primary education, it must ensure the quality of primary education for the whole population, promote a coherent knowledgeable, emotional, spiritual and social development of the individual, develop awareness of state ownership and national identity, behaviour about the history of Slovenia and its culture. At the level of secondary education, it should enable citizens to be educated, involve the entire generation of young people leaving primary school, in secondary education, and ensure the first generation of young people. The Ministry shall promote lifelong education and ensure accessibility and equal opportunities for education for all participants. The area of higher education, science and information society aims to increase global competitiveness through measures to promote innovation, disseminate the use of information and communication technologies and effectively update and invest in education, research and development. In line with what we could say to this ministry, we could call it a mega ministry, and we could always see how important this ministry, the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport is. That is why there are a lot of challenges for the candidate to face, I think, right now. This is a new law on higher education, a revised law on the organisation and financing of education and education, by maintaining quality public education, ensuring the quality of education programmes, linking education with the economy, by drawing on EU funds, especially for research and development, as well as for other areas, by providing and implementing dialogue with social partners, such as trade unions, youth organisations, directors, OKS, local communities. Now, in fact, this last one seems to me to be really crucial and a good quality for managing this department, which we will now confirm with this candidate, because dialogue seems to me to be the most important thing in this area, because without the consent of the social partners it will be very difficult to do something. This was also pointed out at the hearing before the parent committee, which, by a large majority, found that the candidate was suitable for the management of this department, and I am of the same opinion myself. Claudia, I wish you a success!
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u31	Mr. Andrej Chuš has the word to prepare himself for the Mag. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. To begin with, I would touch on one area that I believe was too little or too little to hear at the hearing. I applied myself to the field of sports. As a former athlete, I have been training Judah for 13 years, I don't care how Slovenian sports will develop in the future, so it seems very important that we talk a little more about the problem in Slovenian sport and that the Minister in future works more than her predecessors or predecessors have done. During the debate of the Education Committee, I have pointed out that there has been no call for co-financing of sports activities. The call itself should be published in October last year, but it seems to me that they are either not doing their job at the Ministry or they do not even know that they are there, and Members and other professional representatives of sports associations are calling for us to ask them when this call will finally be. Our sports relations breathe on the gills, we do not have the resources, but we must implement the annual programmes and plans that we will also submit to the Ministry. As a result, of course, there are many times when a sports union is in difficulty, because it does not have the resources, the programme is shrinking and, of course, on the basis of the report it receives less funding. The government of Mira Cerar adopted the annual sports programme for 2015 in this year, but it only accepted it yesterday. Yesterday was March 26th, and we can say that they are already three months behind us this year, and I would expect the Government and the Minister to be faster when adopting the annual sports programmes in the future. Therefore, at least in December, a work plan should be adopted for the following year. Resources in sport are falling – of course, this is the trend, unfortunately; I am not in favour of this – for recreational activities as well as for top sports. I need to find out our athletes are phenomenal. This is mainly because of how much money they spend to win such results. If I am not mistaken, we are even second to the Olympic medals in terms of gross social product, which means that we are at the world summit itself, and it is appropriate to give additional recognition to Slovenian athletes and give them more resources or a better opportunity to develop in the future. The perspective, not in domestic resources and in the budget, is the easiest, and the perspective is also in European funds, and the Government will have to draw up basic acts and documents as soon as possible, with which we will finally be able to start drawing up European funds. The last call for co-financing of sport infrastructure in Slovenia was in 2008. I'm talking about those who weren't modified, or maybe there was one call for a specific contractor, like the Concentrations. We all know each other. Sports facilities are on average 39 years old in Slovenia; therefore, we can see that the conditions for working both recreational and top athletes are very poor. Many times those who work under poor conditions are not satisfied and prefer to focus on other activities and activities. Slovenia's sport will also have an additional impact on the property tax. It is expected that the property tax that the government of Mira Cerar wants to introduce will be 1.1. 2016 also taxed all sports areas, although they are unlikely to carry out profitable activities. In the future, I also expect the Minister to revise some of the projects, which were so-called state projects, financed through calls, and the benefits went to a narrow circle of individuals. At the centre of Planica, Stožica and the Cerar-Pegan-Petkovšek gymnastics centre, the suspicions of crime services are justified and I expect that the Minister will take care of the arrangements as one of the priority areas by reviewing that people will be responsible for the money they stole from all other top athletes and even recreational athletes. I also expect changes in the field of gambling and the opening up of the market for foreign gambling operators. The monopoly of the Slovenian Sports Lottery has not proved to be good in the past. There are also reserves here, even though the candidate for the minister herself said that she would have to be examined. But you know how I feel about studying. In doing so, I would also like to draw attention to the irregularities that are taking place in the professional bodies associated with Slovenian sport and the Ministry of Education. This is the Sport and Sports Board. I have already pointed out on the Education Committee at least two individuals who are in high public places acting corruptly, criminally and contrary to the principles of sport. We already have a very old Sports Act. In the public debate there have been several years or several governments, so I also expect the Minister to proceed as soon as possible with the legislative procedure to correct the Sports Act, as I think it is almost 20 years old. Slovenian sport 20 years ago developed and was seen in the world as something other than today, so I support all changes that will benefit Slovenian sport. In doing so, I warn the candidate for the Minister that, as Minister, she will have to be very strong and strong to withstand the pressures of some sports-political elites, which have in the past greatly hindered or even damaged the development of Slovenian sport. In the field of sport, legal changes to the Property Change Act of Slovenia are also being prepared. The Slovenian Lottery has changed ownership several years ago, but again it is in the interest of some narrow elites to change the law governing the operation of the Sports Foundation. In doing so, I call on Slovenian policy that it has been enough to politicise sport, to withdraw from sport and to give the word to athletes, to manage their own field. Changes to the last law, the Law on Property Transformation of the Lottery of Slovenia, provide for only one change – a change of the members of the Council of the Sport Foundation. And thus one political power or option seeks a monopoly in the sharing of money in Slovenian sport. Finally, a good year ago, with a veto, such changes were rejected by the Council of State, which the Commission also pointed out to prevent corruption. At the time of the re-voting or re-examination after the veto, only 34 Members and Members were supported by the law. That says enough about what the public thinks about this narrow political, sporting elite. I also point out that it will have to be approached as soon as possible, we can say, by minor amendments to the Law on the Crossing Insurance of Professional athletes. This is a law adopted towards the end of the last term. The professional public warns – i.e., the law will also enter into force in a few weeks – that the government will also have to prepare some appropriate materials to make the law come alive, that there will be no bureaucratic obstacles and that it will be written on the skin of athletes. That's why we supported him then. So much for sports. I would also touch on the areas of youth, the youth sector. I missed it here too, I was expecting more debate on the committee, and I saw that somehow it was not a priority. Politics in Slovenia is highly intergenerationally uncoordinated. This is shown by all indicators of young people’s problems. We belong to the very top of the European Union. In my opinion, the Minister responsible for youth needs to tell me at every point in the Government what is good for young people and what is not, and what is best for them tomorrow. The youth sector – briefly what it is. It is represented by 104 youth organisations, of which 12 nationals, we have 57 youth centres and 35 NGOs. So these work in accordance with the law on public interest in the youth sector. But probably everyone in their local environment, at least I can, lists some other youth societies that operate and are somehow driving the development and participation of young people in society, so it would make sense, of course, that the Youth Office also begins to look at the issue of the youth sector more broadly, not only to focus on some centres such as the municipalities and other larger municipalities in Slovenia. I represent 8 municipalities in the National Assembly, and I can say that the smallest municipalities, such as Sveti Andraz or Trnovska village, have very active youth societies and are driving events, the main organizers of events in the local community, and I must say that this is the added value of each local community. At the same time, in Slovenia we have 45 youth councils of local communities, or the youth councils of local communities could be in every municipality in the country, so there could be a lot more, but the country has been very macho in the field of youth councils in local communities in the last period. In fact, three years ago, she somehow threw them out of her jurisdiction, did not deal with them as a priority, and she also cut off everyone’s funding. And it's not about millions, but every youth council got 200 to 500 euros a year, so they could cover the costs of the financial statement and then they put it on Apples and the financial office, and what else with that money, so you know you can't do it. Otherwise, it is true that this is a legal obligation of local communities, but look, last time we were at a meeting of the Committee on Culture in the Municipality of Maribor, where we also saw that many municipalities cut down mainly on social activities programmes to interfere with sport and youth at the time of saving. Thus, some youth councils in Slovenia do not receive a single euro from municipalities and, of course, there are problems; because the youth council does not have the means to act, so it usually closes or does not have the activity and all of this goes to the detriment of young people. Then the politicians or municipal councilors say that they have not prepared anything, they have done nothing, why they should now give them any funds. And it's 500 euros, say. In my opinion, however, the ministry should allow young people to participate more in European calls because the youth sector, if we are looking at the European average, is well underserved in Slovenia. In the previous mandate, there was one example of good practice, including 10 national youth organisations, but given how many youth societies there are, how rich the youth sector is in Slovenia, this is certainly not enough. In my opinion, youth organisations are one of the few that are still particularly concerned today with improving the participation of young people, health, sport, education, both formal and informal, and I think they should be given additional recognition and commendation. We also have a national youth programme. I would mark this paper or document as one piece of paper, but the paper will carry everything, and practice will not, and I am just warning, even in the previous year, at the end of the year, we have requested an urgent meeting of the Education Committee in the parliamentary group, where we have warned – including representatives of youth organisations, youth councils, student organisations – that the national youth programme is written and implemented very poorly. The 2015 implementation plan, which was adopted a few weeks ago, does not show or promise anything better. At the same meeting, the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth also agreed unanimously that the Government should be invited to include a youth representative in the Economic and Social Council. In my opinion, this would be one of the most important measures, or I have my own opinion on this, but I believe that there should be more young representatives in the Economic and Social Council. In fact, all the social arrangements that have been taking place and reforms in Slovenia in recent years have been attended by all representative representatives and trade unions, including the generational view, other than young people. I hope and expect the Minister to point this out to the Government as soon as possible, to open the debate, and the decision also requires us to be briefed by the National Assembly, who is opposed to young people not being included in the Economic and Social Council. Because when we get to the National Assembly for cameras, we're all for young people, oh and all, when it comes to borrowing one billion at the expense of other generations, there's no problem, we're just voting. We need to be more consistent here with what we're saying. Last but not least, I would say that the Minister's first challenge will be to adopt the national housing programme, which is now in public debate. I think the Minister of the Environment already represents him on the ground. The debate is varied and broad, but given the fact that only Greeks are worse after their youth is made up; in Slovenia two thirds of individuals aged 18 to 34 live at home with their parents, in Greece there is a percentage or two worse, which shows that the country must also approach the solution to the housing problem of young people. So, also, self-reliance, jobs, that young people will decide for the future in the country. We also have 3,000 empty state apartments. These apartments are falling apart, they're not maintained, they're empty. We could've thought about that already. According to GURS, I even learned that we have over 80,000 empty apartments in Slovenia. So we just have to take something to allow young people to rent. A concrete measure was also presented when Minister Cernač proposed that the rent for the apartment should be considered as a rental value, so that when you pay the rent, you also become the owner of the apartment. This is probably a good way to think. Colleagues and colleagues today have discussed and presented many important challenges, which are before the Minister, from the law on higher education, on information technology, but I believe that the area of sport and youth are also priorities that should not be ignored. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u33	The word has magic. Bojana Muršič, we are prepared by Mrs. Irena Kotnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Colleagues, colleagues, respectable! I am particularly concerned about the quality and accessibility of the education and education system and about the conditions for professional growth and the greater reputation of the teaching profession. Of course, we are all aware, and I am also aware of the seriousness of the financial situation of the country. I am also counting on the knowledge that education is the only right way for the socio-economic breakthrough of Slovenia. That is why I expect the future Minister to be more successful than her predecessor in government negotiations and to take her decisions carefully and to show a greater degree of understanding of the importance of public education, which is crucial to us, the Social Democrats. I will by no means agree to our decommissioning of public education, so I expect the Minister to support our efforts to protect public education with the highest legal act, the Constitution. Although I was not present on the Education Committee, I closely monitored the debate through the TV screen and its presentation and its answers. I must say that I expect with justification and optimism that the future Minister will clearly delineate this public and private education. Especially wise should be helpful in any intervention, since it is the most vulnerable groups of children. The attitude towards this has to date been far from the standards of humanity, even the stepmotherly behaviour of the country could be called that. Learning aid is one of the forms of assistance to the weak. Of course, this is not the only one, but it is one of the few that does not last allow our children and children to interact with special needs. I strongly believe that this teaching aid should also be upgraded. Knowledge is a public good and public responsibility of the authorities is to provide conditions for its implementation and to be given to everyone regardless of their initial position. I consider saving in the field of education to be an unacceptable deviation from school policy, despite the fact that we have adopted the budget. The Minister will cover many areas, so we speak with the right of the Ministry of Justice, since it includes such pre-school care, primary education, secondary education, higher education, and there is no way to ignore science and sport. It's a very wide area. I expect the Minister and her team to successfully lead the ministry and propose to key positions competent people to assist her in her work. Let me touch briefly the key points that are essential to me, and I expect the Minister to successfully implement them. Distance from the concept of the design of amendments to the Higher Education Act, with which no one has been satisfied so far, protection of Slovenian language as a scientific language, modernisation of curricula in preschool and primary education and analysis of a nine-year-old girl, greater integration of education and the economy, advocacy of public music education. The attempt to reduce funds in the past and contributions is unacceptable. I strongly oppose the proposal to pass on the costs of the music education programme to parents. Let him remember that there are 24,000 children in the music programmes of schools and that music education has a tradition and quality in Slovenia, uniquely on a global scale. Special care should be given to the Minister in the field of science, which is unfortunately underfunded in recent years. The reputation of teachers as one of the most trusted institutions in the country is established and calls for free work, as in the case of teaching aid, should be considered unworthy. A system of adequate and fair evaluation of additional work and a system of progress should be developed. It should also strengthen the role of sport. I hope we will also witness the new Sports Act. It should also give special attention to minorities, Roma and foreigners. To conclude, I expect a lot from the minister. I hope that my expectations will be justified, as this demonstrates its energy, ambition and desire for success. So, Minister, be as firm as a rock in the sea and don't be disturbed by the ever-increasing waves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u35	Mrs Irena Kotnik has the floor to prepare Mr Jernej Vrtovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. Education is one of the key factors in raising solidarity citizens and citizens on the basis of creativity, openness and the way to create confident, critical and pervasive individuals. This means that the work of the Minister is not only responsible, but also very difficult and therefore I welcome the priority given by the candidate for the Minister at her presentation on the working body, namely to promote proactive cooperation and dialogue with all stakeholders in the educational system. It thus indicated that it would be open to discussions, cooperation and the search for appropriate ways to solve problems in the fields of education, sport and research, as also reflected by the responses to questions from colleagues and colleagues at the hearing. The future Minister has knowledge, competence and experience in the field of education. She has also proved this by her previous work in the Group of Members. Of course, I've heard quite a few readings from my colleagues today that these skills and those skills are too small, but some of us know everything and some of us know everything. Why should we not allow not only ministers for once, but also all other people, to demonstrate their competence, to show their abilities, but not, at the outset, to begin their work, to start creating, stopping and taking their will? That is why the most important thing for me in all this is that Mrs Klaudija Markež has the will to do so and that she will acquire the knowledge she lacks in certain areas. It is said that it is important that you have in you this will and this desire that things that you do not have enough that you do not know enough should be complemented in your work. I would point out two areas which the future minister has given as priorities and which I think are very important to me personally. In doing so, I would point out the integration of the education process with labour market and economic needs, as I am aware that this is an area that can help young people to get new jobs. I am also pleased that the candidate for a minister has recognized and indicated that the whole area of education and education also needs some systemic changes. She's a mag candidate. I support Klaudio Markež as Minister, not as a counterweight to the negative opinions of some media and some fellow Members of Parliament who do not agree with this candidacy and are always looking for negativity in all candidates for ministers, but because I believe she has sufficient expertise, power and will to carry out her work professionally and responsibly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u37	Mr Jernej Vrtovec has the floor to prepare Mrs Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u38	Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will not object alone to our colleague Mrs Markeževa becoming Minister. However, given what I could hear myself at the hearing before the parliamentary committee, I am a little skeptical about how it will deal with all the anomalies, with all the problems in the field of education. But I too will be one of those who will say, Mrs Markeževa has been given the opportunity to make the most of it for the benefit of all of us. Although she lacks experience, so much political – half a year is a Member of Parliament and that is all – and of course the only reference from school is that she was the director of the Human University on Ptuj. But all right, ma'am will have a chance and she'll have a chance to prove herself. I would like to highlight four important points. The first thing is the last anomaly with which we were able to meet her by means of public information means, a so-called honorary affair. Here, future ministers, I'm kind of putting it to heart that this anomaly has to be arranged somehow. In fact, it is unacceptable that a higher education teacher can earn half a million euros in a few years in addition to his regular university employment, even in the afternoon or evening. So you can ask yourself — but I'm not against someone earning well, the problem is whether they deserve it honestly. I am not against the fact that someone can be rich, God forbid, but the key question is whether these earnings have been earned in a fair and transparent manner. The second thing that needs some kind of greater encouragement is private education, respected colleagues and colleagues. Private education! We fear private education too much. We fear him and say that public education must be protected. Public education is already protected as a nomadic bear today. Ms Muršičeva said that the impact of private education could endanger public education, the existence of public education, public services. That's not true! Private education can encourage better quality of the entire Slovenian education, better quality of services for our youngest. Here, let me stress, you know, public education is already protected; it is protected because it is legally impossible to stop private schools where the frequency of people is very low. That's why we have private schools in the city centers, we can't have them in the villages, because then the public school would be threatened, the admission to public school. Thus, private education is already somehow protected and we must not – or public education – fear the influence of private education, because, I stress, it increases the quality of education. Furthermore, one of the key tasks is "to further strengthen the link between universities, schools and the economy." We now have a very good system, the so-called establishment of start-up companies, where universities also participate. This should only be further strengthened, additional engagement. There is still a need to seek to increase enrolment in vocational colleges, as these personnel are also lacking. Finally, I would like to point out the anomaly that has recently come on a day, namely the anomaly within the Agency for Communications Networks and Services, so-called AKOS. We have already discussed this in Parliament in the previous term. In 2014, AKOS sold its mobile frequency for 147 million euros, even though mobile operators offered more than 300 million euros for these frequencies. Therefore, according to the grave calculation, the budget of the Republic of Slovenia is to be damaged by approximately EUR 150 million. Mrs Markež, future ministers, I am somehow ordering that more care will have to be taken about all the events that take place at the Agency for Communications Networks and Services, so that it will have to visit this agency and review the transparency of their operations. This agency is kind of away from everyday events in our education system. But there are some unimaginable things happening that we have witnessed year after year, and many of us don't even know that this AKOS agency exists. But there are important things being shared, frequencies for mobile operators. There was a public auction, which was somehow illegal, and there was no search for the best bidder, but something else entirely. The future minister will have to ensure greater transparency in the operations of the AKOS agency. Let me finish. I'm not going to object to Mrs. Marquez becoming a minister myself. However, I want all these anomalies that we are witnessing in this great conglomerate within the Ministry to somehow prevent or combat them. I stress the need to regulate the system of payment of copyright fees, to provide even more private education and thus to promote competitiveness and to improve the quality of services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u39	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Jelka Godec. Get Mrs. Irena Grošelj Košnik ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u40	President, thank you very much for your word. I must say that it is quite difficult to talk about the new candidate, not from this point of view, that anything is wrong with her; but it is a relatively divisive resort and a resort that has been on the ground many times lately. At the same time, she is a candidate for a minister from the same field of professional work as I am alone. And I find it hard to judge what she'll be like as a minister. I also find it difficult to assess after the committee hearing. In fact, we didn't get her views on the board. For example, I did not ask her for specific and detailed answers, but at least her opinion on certain matters; however, I received only general answers, according to the domestically read coalition contract. And what I can understand from that is that it has a very high priority. Of course, this is normal because the Ministry of Education covers many areas. However, I think that a minister or a candidate for a minister should have a clearer vision or a clearer programme. The vision is likely to be written or carried out with employees, but the program or clearer views on certain matters. She talked a lot about supporting and trying, but that's not enough. Support is not enough, efforts are not enough, but something will have to be done, especially in those areas that some have already highlighted today. She also spoke to me about what was quite interesting or positive to me — the professional development of school workers. When I asked her what she meant by that, it was: I support the professional development of employees in education. It's hard to say here that I got the answer, but it would be wise to hear what she was thinking. At the time of her work as a Member, she surprised me with sentences such as: I support your proposal, but I cannot support it. This was at a time when we had in the apprenticeship law procedure, which itself at the hearing very much opened up this topic to support it. But again we have heard 'we support, but I will not be able to support'; and any proposal. I agree not, but let us explain with some arguments why. She has taken all our proposals for good, she will examine all our proposals and she will include them in her programme. If it includes our proposals, coalition proposals and stakeholder proposals, then I do not think that this mandate will be sufficient for it to need three mandates to resolve matters. I suggest she take those really high-priority things. Of those whose priorities are, and after everything I've heard from her, I don't think she's going to put them on her own, but they're going to be posted by officials or employees at the Ministry. Today, some of the debaters spoke, as well as the Minister, for the last time, about certain projects that had nothing to do with the Ministry of Education. This is, for example, an intergenerational centre, which you are thus highlighting in the Desus Group, which is right and nice; and I am very much in favour of it myself. But intergenerational centres already operating in Slovenia are not in the field of education, but in the field of social. And don't mix apples and pears, and don't bother with that minister who grabbed it right away and said, yes, I'll back it up. Don't put that on her. The next issue is Symbiosis, which has nothing to do with the Ministry of Education. He's supported by the president of the state and so on, but the Ministry of Education is here one piece behind. And don't put that on her again, because she's gonna take that back and she's gonna say, and I'm gonna support that, too. Take a look at the issues concerning the Ministry of Education and are much more important than, say, the research activity that we have been alerting in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Certain decisions have been adopted on the Committee, which I hope will be taken into account by the new Minister. As far as learning aid is concerned. I agree that children need teaching aid, especially for those who need it; and not for those who exploit it. When I listen to officials who call me themselves, I don't ask them about it, but when they see us talking about these things, they say it's at least 30% of the exploitation. Because now all kids who can't sit still, hyperactive, autistic, I don't know what. But basically, what the teachers themselves and the principals tell me is that my parents just don't have time and then they say it's hyperactive, now let's give it a decision and then they have peace. And here we have to look at this, and we have already warned the Institute of Education what it is about, that there are so many of these teaching aids, and there is nothing else. Sometimes even those who need teaching help who really need it do not ask for it at all. I think there's going to be money for all of these then, but look, in recent years, this teaching aid has fallen apart incredibly. And if I don't speak, then we still have the status of an athlete in primary school in sixth grade. I don't know if I'm a little weird, but in sixth grade, being an athlete, I don't know why, because they're not state champions yet. But if they can't do four hours of training a week in the sixth grade and school responsibilities, then they probably need teaching help. I think that she will have to hear, listen, not only hear, but also understand them – administrators, teachers, parents, as you have already said, and also somehow include them in her work, but probably to the normal extent, because, as the candidate spoke at the hearing, she will include all the stakeholders and take them into account. I think the negotiations will be very hard and very long if they take everything into account and suddenly invite everyone. However, it is very positive that it is aware that all actors in education need to be involved. She talked a lot about the dual system and supporting the dual system. I find it very hard to believe her here, I'm sorry. When our proposal was about apprenticeship, she talked about supporting him and she cannot support him. I don't know. She let me down, I have to say, but I understand her in this sense that she didn't want to give specifics; and I didn't expect her to. But the area of adult education was 10 years old, and I expected at least three sentences more than she said. She said, however, that the public network needs to be regulated in the area of adult education, as we all know. That's what the meeting on our side called for. But here I was just expecting her word a little more forcefully. She said she was in favour of the Slovenian language, allowing for internationalisation. I went to see what the coalition contract said. This is, I could say, also related to this, not that it is connected, but exactly as it writes – learning Slovenian as a foreign language in the entire educational vertical for those whose Slovenian is not the mother tongue. I would like to know in which European country the Slovenian language is protected in this way. As far as private and public education is concerned, here too, the minister spoke more in a fog, and we must all agree that she did not stand on either side. She said she supported public education as well as quality education. Look, everyone who's saying there's going to be a public school break if it's now financed in private by 100%. We have three private schools in Slovenia and 744 public schools – and you are talking about the breakdown of public education in this system to break down. Those who say so, read ZOFVI, read Article 86, last paragraphs, read Article 87, where the protection of the public network is written. And if three private primary schools are threatening public education in Slovenia, then I don't know what we're talking about, or we're talking about two different things. In particular, I asked her what domestic education meant to her or whether domestic education was also introduced into the curriculum from kindergarten to the end of high school. Otherwise, she would answer me about civic education, which I didn't ask her about, well, okay; there are things connected, these are two different concepts. I also asked her what her attitude was about dressing children as pioneers. Now I'm going to quote her on what her answer was. "Celebrities at primary schools, part of the active involvement of our children, changing children into different uniforms. Even when there are thematic celebrations, children change into what kind of animals or into other forms. I don't see anything critical or alarming about it." Next. "We also know that these activities are determined by a curriculum and also harmonised at national level." Next. "I also don't think it's disputed if we're children, because it's thematic, now I don't know what it was going for, maybe there was something about keeping things in perspective with the parents, but even if they change into pioneers and if the subject is so patriotic, I don't think there's anything at stake about it. Even when it's a theme party, I don't know, because I'm saying, I'm just saying that there's something substantive going on in a specific event." So you don't think there's anything at stake. So you don’t care, it would be said if we were to say that changing into pioneer is thematic and the purpose of patriotism. I read this quote because before my colleague said that he didn't see anything in this, you were moving when, uh, yeah, that's what she said. Yeah, I don't think it's patriotic or even thematic. Thematic was November 29, and today it is no longer patriotism; we are in another country, no longer becoming pioneers. I think it's an increase in totalitarian regimes, and I'm sorry I don't like that answer. I believe you don't agree with me, but let's think about it a little bit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u41	Mrs Irena Grošelj Košnik has the floor to prepare Mrs Marija Bachič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u42	Thank you, Vice President. Dear representatives of the ministries, colleagues and colleagues! She's a candidate for Minister Mag. Claudius Markež studied in an area that was indirectly related to her work at the time. Such knowledge and experience is undoubtedly of great added value, since the candidate theoretical knowledge has linked all the time with concrete work in managing, organising, implementing adult education programmes, teaching economics, marketing, economics and business communication. Later, she upgraded this knowledge and became a master of state and European sciences. The young and the driven have accepted the challenge and have successfully managed the human university for 10 years, i.e. all business and organisational processes. In particular, it has established an effective system of drawing on European funds and has learned many bureaucratic obstacles that it will now have the opportunity to further address. In addition to its content, it has successfully taken care of the economic and economic performance of the public service, as 80 % of the income was generated by the company on the market. Business colleagues also elected her president of the Union of Human Universities to represent and connect them at the national level for four years. This also points to its good human qualities, the ability to cooperate and to engage in a patient dialogue in different interests and with different social groups. She has also gained international experience in this work. Her career path continued in the economy in the field of human resources education and management. Here she experienced the need to establish a more effective link between the economy and the school system. This is important for young people who are trained in professional ways to gain as much skills and competence as possible in addition to knowledge. This, of course, increases their employability. Here, in the economy, a career centre was also established, developed systems for the recognition of informal knowledge and participated in the promotion of deficit occupations, which are very current challenges and needs of this time. At the same time, the candidate is also very aware of the strategic importance of fundamental theoretical knowledge and scientific research for the development of our society, while inter-sectoral cooperation is important, as development challenges are not only related to one ministry. She stressed the importance of the quality of education in the entire educational vertical; this was particularly true of the committee at the hearing. As a fellow Member, we have seen her as a patient person, committed to work and a responsible Member. For all this I will support her, because I trust her that the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport will be able to lead successfully because of these personality, competence and knowledge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u43	Mrs Marija Bachič has the floor to prepare Mr Mag. Branislav Rajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Hello, everyone in the hall! Candidate for Minister of Education, Science and Sport Mrs Mag. In her presentation, Klaudija Markež expressed her affection for educating children with special needs from kindergarten ahead, which I am particularly pleased with. Since September 2013, the Children's Guidance Act has been in force with special needs, which, at least on a legal basis, places a slightly higher sensitivity to the most vulnerable population of children. However, there are still a number of outstanding issues in this area, from the integrated treatment of children with special needs, on inclusive education, on the payment of transport to young people of the age group 18 to 26, which are included in specific education and training programmes, on the provision for children with special needs to be provided and paid for additional professional assistance and teaching assistance. I hope this is handled by our minister. It will also be necessary, and I expect, from the Minister, to carry out an analysis of nine-year education, which has not yet been carried out since 2013. I think there is a need for change in this area as well. There is a lot of work to be done by the future minister, and I think that the candidate is working, ambitious, optimistic, professional. I expect this difficult role to do well, so I will give her my support on this occasion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u45	Thank you. The word has magic. Branislav Rajić, prepare Mrs Violeta Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u46	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Good afternoon, everyone! Last night, I went out for a farewell drink with my colleague Claudius. Since the photographer didn't catch us, I can tell you that she drank one beer, and yet she behaved decently. Personally, I deeply regret that he will be a magician. Claudius Markež has left her seat next to me, but I am aware that she is going to a place where she will contribute much more to all of us. The area of education and education, science and sports, which will be covered by its high reference team, is an extremely broad and complex area of social regulation. As a result, it requires broad knowledge, competence and expertise. Management or decision-making, guidance, the management of a superministerial structure, whose organizational characteristics are often highlighted by many, is of great importance. With her work so far, the candidate has shown this very managerial skill, which is the most important in such a wide and complex area. At the hearing, the opposition's representatives took note of her over-emphasis on the integration and cooperation with all involved participants in the field of education and education. In her work, the candidate will have to deal with various substantive areas, as well as different levels of education – from pre-school education to higher education, from science to sport and youth care. The fact that dialogue and integration and cooperation with different stakeholders will be key in achieving the objectives and priorities of the Ministry of Field Affairs is not only a political syllabus, but a real need and a political reality. Only such a way of working and non-arbitrary decision-making will contribute to the achievement of the objectives; this is what the candidate has pointed out and I fully support it. I would also like to stress its innovation in the approach. On one occasion, she decided to drop out of the public university management service and proved to be active in the establishment of the first such institution in Slovenia, which would educate the wanted profile of experts directly in the manufacturing process. In this I see the potential of its scope and the willingness to face challenges and to seek and implement systemic improvements in the area in which it is responsible. From the appointment or proposal of the candidate to this day, the candidate has received a number of political and media discredits. Who did she step on? It has clearly identified itself to all charges and we trust it in the Modern Centre. While we take the teaching cases of the opposition state as legitimate, we do not consider them to be justified. I am pleased that, as one of the priorities, the candidate has recognised the importance of raising the quality of the educational process, thus leading to better student achievements and an even more effective education system. I also know that the candidates for the Minister and her team have many good proposals and solutions, which will be addressed with great responsibility as soon as the mandate is taken. It has already demonstrated its principle, responsibility, commitment and sense of fellow human beings by its work in the parliamentary group. According to opposing debates, no one is good enough to compete for the leadership of the Ministry of Education, Science, Sport and Youth. Apparently, they believe that Marie Curie, Superman, and Chuck Norris must unite into one person who will join their party, then this superclane and, of course, a super-member of the party with the blessing of the leader and any other excellencies will start to command an important resource. An alpha-resor, an omega of our present and existence. In the last few days, there is only such an abused syntagma in mandatory pathetic intensification. We missed Marie Curie in the SMC, and we don't believe in Superman and Chuck Norris, and we've got enough in our lineup. We have proposed a candidate, we support her and we are confident that, together with her team, there will be a challenging task for the Minister of Education, Sport Science and Youth. Its friendly openness and personality are ideally to symbolize the accessibility of one of the most important ministries to all good ideas, to all children, students, adolescents and students, to all employees in the sector and to the high aims of education and education in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u47	Thank you. Mrs Violeta Tomić has the floor to prepare Mr Primož Hainz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. As I said earlier in the position of the United Left Group, we do not intend to support the candidates for Minister Klaudija Markež in the United Left. In our non-support, it is not only the incompetence of the proposed candidate, but in particular the opposition to the Government's harmful education policies, which the future Minister will uncritically seek to implement. It seems that the main criterion in choosing Klaudije Markež is that she will obediently continue with harmful measures and will not resist too much the cuts required by Finance Minister Marble. A number of major reforms are necessary in the field of science and education. I'm sure that's the area of higher education. We hope that the Minister will not continue her previous directions. It is clear that we need a new Higher Education Act, which will clearly ensure the exercise of public interest in higher education. Currently, only those who can afford to pay tuition can study at the third Bologna level; not those who would judge there according to meritocratic criteria. For a doctoral study, meritocracy was suspended. The candidate did not advocate co-financing arrangements for a doctoral study and supported a budget that did not have this item. The publication of the astronomical fees of the privileged academic elite makes it very clear that the logic of the economy has already been deeply anchored in the public sector, that there is 1 percent that are shamelessly rich at the expense of the majority. It is a private, market interest within the public, common interest. Private interest invades public education at many levels. This has great social consequences. Education will no longer be a right, but a privilege for those who can afford it. At the same time, we will lose the development potential, both human and research. Then where does this country's path lead?Oh, my God! In the United Left we advocate a clear distinction between public and private education. The state should finance only public education, not to finance private education, and thus reduces already too little funding for public school. Only a quality and accessible public school can provide an education independent of the property and social status of children. Only a quality and fully funded public school can provide a truly quality and secular education. We know that the future Minister, as well as the entire Modern Centre Party, has not supported the amendment of Article 57 of the Constitution, which we have proposed together with the Social Democrats, the Alliance and Desus. We expect the public education advocate to support such a change. Secularism of Slovenian education and the whole system is also tested at state universities. By amending the Statute of the University of Ljubljana, the activity of teaching teachers is being transferred to the Theological Faculty. I will try to be a little clearer: the activity of education for all teachers, including for public secular school, will be awarded to the Theological Faculty! The Committee of the National Education Council rejected this harmful initiative a few weeks ago, but the contested decision is being returned to the Committee's agenda next week, of which Klaudija Markež was also a member until the election of the Minister. That is why I am asking the Minister-designate here, even though she cannot answer me right now, and I want a very clear answer. Will she, as Minister of Education, oppose these harmful amendments to the Statute of the University of Ljubljana? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u49	Thank you. Mr Primož Hainz has the floor. Let Mr. Ivan Škodnik prepare.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u50	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Government! In my introduction, when I spoke of colleague Markež as a candidate for Minister, I said I would support her; and there is no doubt about it. Therefore, I will not repeat the facts I have mentioned there, but I will ask some questions in public for the sake of not forgetting what Desus or at least I will personally insist on in later discussions on the School Committee or the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth. Firstly, a completely clear separation between private and public education. Here you know that Desus and our coalition contract also requires the separation of public health from private, separation of public education from private, and we will undoubtedly insist on education. That's why the constitutional amendment. And I'm not going to repeat this because my fellow signatories have already explained, and I think it's perfectly clear what this is about. It's not an attack on private schools. Private schools are already regulated by law, and their funding has been arranged. It's a few percent less co-financing, if I may say so. So not to throw them out of the system, but the essence of our education is public education, so that we don't cause the situation as we know it in America, that public school is a black school, if I can say a little ugly, but I think clearly. Another time. As regards the expertise involved in the hearing, I mentioned the case, but I do not know if this is just an issue of the Education Committee, because it may also be a problem of the Public Administration Committee. The fact is, the government of Janševa, under Virant's leadership, has passed professional examinations for public servants. I think it was a big mistake back then. But of course, it was very simple for them to hire their own people. What came as a surprise was that Janša’s government had fallen, that even the later government had not changed this system and maintained the previous system. In short, I think that this is a huge damage to public servants over the long term, because the fact is that every serious education, every serious education, every serious service knows professional exams after a year or how much practical work it is. The third thing I would like to mention is the issue of illegal sports. The fact is that we have legislation well regulated, that is also what I was told at the hearing; and I am also aware of it in some way. But what I'm going to insist on is that this ministry will also somehow be defined, but the next problem is. When it comes to doping or anti-doping, it is very simple to simplify the words that we usually use. He's guilty of taking drugs. He's an athlete. I'm saying that's not true. They're accomplices, and they're major culprits, if not bigger. It's my feeling that those who make this doping work, give it to them, sell it and serve it. The fact is, in spite of everything, however we turn, some of them have been here for years. Of course, when you're 18, you're not always critical enough. Those who advise you should be somewhat responsible. I'm just pointing out the problem, and I think the minister will, I hope, bite into this sour apple and get on with this problem – how? – also settle this side of the medal with the law. The fourth thing I would mention is the last thing, if I may say so, is the question of Knaf's home in Vienna. You know that in the 17th century, Luke Knafel, a wealthy priest, left all his belongings so that the Kranian students could learn in Vienna in the then Slovenian capital, Kranj's capital, as well as the Cran capital. This donation has survived for centuries. In our time, if I may say so, in the present tense, the university has put this into private hands or donated it, sold it to the cheap. I don't really know these details, all I know is that it's a disaster, because Knaflje's home doesn't work anymore than some kind of fund for poor students or those students who want to come to Vienna and could live there cheaply. I think that this problem will have to be seen or examined by the university. Is there anything at this point that can be fixed and anything else that can be done? I don't think a 100-year-old foundation can disappear like this because it's unfair to the one who founded it centuries ago. The last question I repeat after Dr. Tadej Badaj, President of the Slovenian Academy of Science and Art. He wrote about such that the doctorates in the Middle Ages or even later some kind of recognition for the knowledge of the one he had. In later times, at the beginning of the 20th century, Ph.D. was the scientific work of a student or a graduate and a professor. Over the last 30 years, the matter has turned completely in this direction, that scientific titles mean generally, unfortunately, or mostly only recognition in a particular area. That's what Dr. Bid says. I totally agree with him. I hope that, in this respect, the Minister will also act when she writes the Law on Higher Education, the Law on Science; and this element will be taken into account because I think at some points this can change our attitude on these issues significantly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u51	Thank you. Mr Ivan Škodnik has the floor. Get Mr. Matjaž German ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Hello, government representatives! You're welcome, too, colleagues and fellow Members! Dear Claudius Markež, candidate for Minister of Education, Science and Sport. I assume you're listening to us somewhere. I know Mrs Claudius as a good co-worker in the Group of the Modern Centre Party. I think he has enough experience and knowledge in the field of education. He knows how to communicate with people, which I think is a very good quality, which, unfortunately, we don't all have. I also see an urgent advantage in the fact that it has linked itself to the economy in its work. I'm gonna stop here because I'm coming out of the economy myself. My first job was in the wood industry for almost 10 years. Here I see an opportunity when it comes to forest, wood, forest and forest chains, that education will also be of great importance in this area. Because if we're going to make a breakthrough in the wood industry, we're going to need not only lumberjacks, millers, but we're going to need forestry techniques, engineers, and also doctors of science. It advocates an innovative way of thinking in the field of education. It supports research activities. Well, I'd stop here, too. I will explain this research activity more practically, an example of good practice. Two years ago, when I was in the School Centre of Slovenj Gradec, students of the school centre connected with forestry programs with students of architecture in Ljubljana. Together somehow, the students designed, the students made products, and it came up with about 20 unique products. You also have this opportunity to see today and next week in the lobby of the Grand Hall of the National Assembly, six unique products are here. The names of the students and students who designed this would also be good to see that this is a practical example of research work, an innovative work that is too small today and that we will have to take into account at all levels in the economy in the future. That is why education is so important that it will be linked to this part of the economy, because we need to be aware that the new value, the money, is generated in the economy. Of course, it supports the development or education of professional workers, here I mean all workers working in education or other educational institutions. It offers more opportunities for youth education and equal opportunities for all, regardless of nationality and so on. Mrs Markež promises effective management of institutions, somehow he also promises to help the directors. We know that they are often left to themselves today, and things are changing a lot and directors on certain things are very burdensome. I'm glad he recognizes the importance of intersectoral integration. In her presentation, she mentioned the integration of ministries for work, economy, health, education. It promotes reading and other literacy. I like that Claudius Markež, a candidate for a minister, pays equal attention to all levels of education in her work. For all these reasons, I'm going to be a magician today. Mr Markež, candidate for Minister, supported the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u53	Thank you. Mr Matjaž German has the floor; Mrs Ludmila Novak should be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u54	Thank you, Madam President. For Social Democrats, when we talk about education, it is always a very important topic. From another country, when we inherited public education, at least in the opinion of the majority, it was relatively good, at least in relation to the surrounding or comparable countries, that the inheritance of the school system enabled us all to learn from it together and to continue our life course. Article 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia states that the Republic of Slovenia is defined as a social state. In this Article, we also touch on public education. We have always sought to ensure that the possibility of education in public institutions is not a privilege, but an option that does not exclude others. We're talking about private education. In some ways, we seek to demarcate public education from private education, especially when we are talking about rights and accountability. Here I mean, in a translated sense, the way of financing. When, not long ago, the Constitutional Judges, at least some of them, issued a decision and in some way allowed integration to occur, or in some way, if I say, cannibalism, at least in the area of public-private financing, the Social Democrats decided that we would protect what was good in our country. This is why we have undertaken the amendment of Article 57, which states that education is free, primary education is compulsory and financed by public funds, and the country is forced to create opportunities for citizens to receive adequate education. Just as a defender and not only as a warner, but those who are actively involved in this, we have proposed, together with partners within the coalition and more broadly, to change the dictatorship of this article, namely that primary education is compulsory and financed in public schools by public funds under conditions and in the amount prescribed by law; private schools may also be co-financed by public funds. This publicly suggests that we do not oppose public institutions, but that we want a clear distinction between the two. This is what we are talking about in primary education. When we talk about the higher education system, you know, at least those of you who are monitoring that, in the previous mandate, under the tactics of the then Minister Dr. Pikal, a draft and to a large extent harmonised amendments to the Higher Education Act have been prepared. And that's exactly what the future minister is waiting for. Social Democrats want to participate, we have begun to point out certain shortcomings or fears that could arise in this coordination process, I say. Social Democrats here clearly advocate that citizens of the Republic of Slovenia must have at least once in their lives the possibility of free higher education, we are problematic about certain parts of funding, but this is also the subject of coordination. We hope that we can get this law under the roof with the candidate for Minister. I will also touch on the areas of sport, which is now publicly known as the subject of a debate on the link between alcohol and sports events. I think that we do not yet have the opinion of all the coalition and opposition parliamentary groups, but in the field of sport this will certainly be a priority that the future minister will have to take. But let me express my full readiness, not only for my own, but for the entire Group of Social Democrats, to help the candidates on their new path. Let me get this straight. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u55	Thank you. Mrs Ludmila Novak has the floor to prepare Mr Jože Tanko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u56	Thank you for your word. The essence of education is not whether it is public or private or state. The point of the school is that a person comes from school rich with new knowledge that he is a better citizen, a better person. And this previous debate, which once magnified state education in the previous country – of course, public education because it was easier to control because it was controlled by personnel, school leadership and content. That's why private school was shut down. Because I have so little time, maybe just one more thing. Education is extremely important and I hope that the Minister will encourage teachers to have more tools in their hands to be able to raise them. There is no need for security guards in schools, but for teachers to take more responsibility and have more opportunities to do so. I also stress the importance of vocational education, which must be linked to the economy, the promotion of entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship, so that young people can come through education to bread.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u57	Thank you. Mr Jože Tanko has the floor to prepare Mr Uroš Prikl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u58	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. We can peacefully conclude that this government is in a permanent restructuring of random executive functions. I don't think there's been a month left until today when the ministerial team is fully occupied. We are looking for a deputy minister once because one has been nominated and appointed as the European Commissioner. Permanently, this government has been engaged in the search for an economic minister. Now we have a problem with the Ministry and the Minister of Education, not to mention other state officials or senior officials who have also resigned. It is difficult for a government that has so much to do with itself, especially with the largest coalition party itself, to expect effective work, it is difficult to expect reforms, measures and other things. This is also evident from the results of the work of this government. There are not many proposals that we are looking forward to in the National Assembly. You can take a look at the last three regular meetings of the National Assembly and you can find out. What comes into the National Assembly is some of the shorter procedures, many of which change only the previous provisions or introduce into law things that have nothing to do with the laws, such as the ethical recommendations of Greece. The problem is that somehow the government is working hard because it's not teamed, because individual departments aren't busy, and then they pass on various behaviors. The additional problem that this government has is the burdens that some ministers have, and this also makes it difficult for the government to work well. The last case is the problem of the Minister of Defence, who has imposed a major problem on himself; and the President of the Government will have to make a decision sooner than later. The coalition will also have to decide. We have the case of the Minister of Justice, who has come into office with the ultimate reputation of violator of the laws he has enforced at work; or also with the Supreme Court's decision as an example of someone who has violated human rights and acts as Minister of Justice. I would like to say that the Government or the President of the Government is not consistent in its decisions. On the one hand, it underlines high ethical standards, underlines the rule of law, respect for the rule of law. On the other hand, it exclusively invites individuals who do not meet the criteria of ethics or who have been proven to have infringed the rule of law and other standards. The Prime Minister is also not consistent. Minister Mag. Waiter Cankar's station just stepped down. The President of the Government has accepted the resignation. At the same time, people on the same list who also perform ministerial functions, or even the President of the Government himself, are not drawn by some consonants. In these cases, it is difficult for us to say that it is normal conduct, that it is fair conduct; that the Prime Minister has the same vats and the same criteria for everyone he has in his team or coalition. He took himself out of ethical standards, including his Minister of Finance, while he peacefully accepted the resignation of the Minister of Education. She now proposes to this post as a candidate, which also, at least after reporting to the media, brings a certain burden to this area. There is talk of irrational, illegal use of funds, and there is no convincing rejection. There is talk of paying the fees of officials in the city municipality, the mayor; there are also no compelling arguments, etc. In short, with a person who enrolls him in a certain area and after all the bad experiences he has had, he should have made some different decisions. The problem arising from hearing is that we can be very concerned, for the answers we heard were extremely unconvincing. Mr Lisec listed in his delegation's position the key verbs used in the defence of the Minister's candidate. All of this -- we'll study, we'll examine, we'll get to know each other, and so on. Someone who has been working practically all his professional career in education, in the educational system, someone who has been a member of the Committee on Education in the National Assembly for seven, eight months, more than half a year, should have a much more elaborate, much more elaborate position. You should know, in practice, exactly what things are needed to renovate, which matters need to be regulated in some way. We haven't heard that in this presentation. Despite the many questions raised by colleagues from our parliamentary group, as well as others, there were no answers to these questions. The candidate was also at the meeting with the President of the Government, who then proposed it, and perhaps the President of the Government would at least advise her on what areas should be done. The Prime Minister of the Government, by the way, spent some time in this department. But more importantly, the current Prime Minister of the Government was also a member of the working group set up by Minister Luksic and dealing with problems in the school system, which was 2010. He even participated in a press conference where he and the Minister of Education presented the necessary measures together with the Minister of Education. At least someone could say something about these measures. Mr Cerar, current associate of the Ministry of Education, is now the President of the Government and what he said at the 2010 press conference – and it was then said that those administrative, legal overloads of education would be eliminated or introduced into the law by the end of 2010 have not yet been removed. And now he's the Prime Minister of the Government, his department, and he was also the chairman of the Ministry of Education or the Minister of Education, but nothing is going on in this area. Nothing is happening because it was probably just a commission set up with some program of work and a fee, because there is no implementation after four years. It was not until 2010 when Minister Luksič was Minister in that government; he is not now a member of this commission as Prime Minister of the Government. None of this is part of this normative government programme. It is difficult for someone who does not fully understand what the role of minister, whose things need to be changed and whose priorities are for this young country, to expect him to perform his task in this department successfully if so many things need to be examined, checked, reviewed and so on. It also bothers me that a candidate for a minister does not have a clear position on the foundations of Slovenian statehood, on domestic education or on civic education, that this candidate does not really care whether children go to school in those old pioneer uniforms and participate in them at celebrations, or whether any other values, any other memories of our independence, should be marked and incorporated into the curriculum. Perhaps a candidate for a minister would at least suggest that at least a programme, some curriculum, be introduced into education for the third life period, so that at least these older people can be educated, when is Statehood, Independence and Unity Day, and why these two holidays are celebrated. Thus, even politicians, government coalition officials, Members, including some opposition, do not know when they are and what they are called two key national holidays in this country. And the relationship of someone who takes over the education system to these key home dates should be cleared to content after 25 years of independence. Today we had a speech by the President of the National Assembly on Slovenian anthem and meaning. I think that the Minister should also know which curriculums should be included in – probably in kindergarten, elementary school, high school, and also in colleges for the third life period – probably not harming any such education. It is difficult for me to look at the quality of work and judge or judge with hope that work will be of good quality. On the other hand, I see that the candidate for Minister is not consistent either in her actions or in her actions. If someone says that he does not support pouring alcohol at sports events, and this is what happened now that she is a candidate for minister; and a few days or a few weeks ago poses at a sports event with alcohol in hand, then it is obvious that the entire approach of the candidate is subject only to what function she can get. And this status or this relationship to some phenomenon is solely related to whether it will be proposed for a function or not. There's no consistency. It is not what I said at the outset, when the President of the Government in his decisions, in particular words and actions, is not consistent. And here we have a similar case, perfectly identical, when practically in the same law it does not support once and for the second time it does. If the Member were to continue to be a Member, it is likely that this hand alcohol pose at a sports event would still be carried out without a problem. I'd probably even support the marriage. But now that she is a candidate for a minister and this public piranhas has been made around this proposal of the Alliance, the position has changed all of a sudden. Thus, we must be very careful about these things and also be critical of them. I regret that the candidate for the Minister has practically said nothing from the coalition contract, none of which is that the Government's normative programme has written down, I think, amendments to 16 laws by the end of the year. And someone who "does not know" who "will inquire" who "will study" who "will seek stakeholders for certain things" has absolutely no possibility of putting these 16 laws at least by name and surname on the government's agenda. Let's not talk about the content. It is hard to believe that this staff proposal by the President of the Government is good if it does not meet those criteria that I have listed — I guess I have spent too much time listing them. And it's all kind of blurry and moved into some future. And probably nothing important will happen in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u59	Thank you. Mr. Uroš Prikl has the floor. Get Mrs. Anja Bah Gibert ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! I am sure that the candidate Mrs Klaudija Markež will be a good minister, a great minister. However, I am convinced on the basis of his knowledge, he has experience, he has the will to work and he has the character to be prepared with all stakeholders, with all those who, in one way or another, co-form the school system, to talk and listen and to their good ideas. Of course, in the end, she is alone with a narrower circle of her co-workers to take these decisions and implement them. In his introduction to the opinion of the Desus Group, my esteemed colleague Primož said that it would be an easy decision. Of course, it will be an easy decision because the candidate is good, to support, of course, both my colleagues in Desus. But it will be an extremely difficult resort that the minister will take over. Science, education and sport sound a relatively small part, but I am sure that perhaps only the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities are even more difficult, even more difficult, in terms of its complexity. In the field of education, we meet people, children from the smallest age, from kindergarten to college, and if you want colleges for the third life period – practically the whole life cycle. Of course, it will not be easy for her, but I think it is up to us Members, to this day her fellow Members, to give her the opportunity to encourage her with optimistic ideas, with sincere desire, and, of course, to continue to help her work, to work together, to contribute together, and, above all, to her as the first of the same in the fields of education, education and science, to take a step forward, to make a new value in an area that will be substantive, organizational and even covering. For me personally and for the client Desus, it is crucial in this area to maintain public education as well as public health. I would like this segment of public education to be further strengthened, and we will upgrade to make a qualitative shift in this area. Of course, we are not eliminating in some way the complementary work, i.e. private, private education, which is what the candidate for Minister has also made clear and clear in her hearing. What do you want me to say when I'm done? In a way, I am pleased that the person I have had the opportunity to meet in these few months as an honest and correct colleague, a sincere and correct Member of Parliament, will be given this opportunity to be able to upgrade in some way and reach some new milestones in his career in his already rich career. In a way, I don't like the fact that such a good and honest colleague of our kind is leaving, but of course I wish her well on her way. If I call her, I'll do my best to help her. But I wish you, Claudius, that your sincere and charming smile on your face doesn't go away at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u61	Thank you. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert has the floor to prepare himself for Mr Mag. Andrey Shircelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u62	Madam President, thank you so much for your words. I also wish our future minister great luck. Of course, with a little less optimism than those who spoke before me. She simply did not convince me personally and also some others on the committee, where she had the opportunity to present and answer a number of really many questions. And here I hope no one will ever say it again, so you guys always have something against it anyway. No, there were specific questions and we simply did not get answers to them. I seriously thought about how the mandate holder had reached the name of the candidate. Last but not least, when he found the said candidate for minister, "we have a candidate if, of course, I will not find a better candidate or candidate". You know, it looks like it was an emergency solution. Then I was kind of trying, but why maybe a candidate? And I was tired that perhaps it was because of her speech she gave when Dr. Cerar was proposed in this National Assembly for the term of office. She stated: "Today I am here to express my personal support and confidence to you, because I believe that Dr. Miro Cerar is not only an exceptional academic, a lawyer of international proportions, but especially a man with an extraordinary heart, a responsibility for a fellow human being. Around him he chose a team of like-minded people, people with high ethical principles, people who believe in the values of this country." I guess that's probably the main reason. And it ended very interestingly. "Our story," is the story of the SMC and the coalition, "to talk about the turning point, the bold decisions, the great risks that we have taken and which will make us succeed." And that seems to me to be the main one – "big risks". I'm assessing for myself that the candidate for the Minister is a risk. Why? From the outset, it must be said that the dilemmas that had been resolved in the media when it was appointed or proposed to the site had not been resolved and could have been resolved. The candidate was asked publicly if they could obtain her master's assignment. That's not it. When we asked her about this at a so-called hearing session, it's a problem. [[advertising from the hall]] Of course it's a problem. When we asked her at the so-called hearing session, she said that because she had her home and didn't see any problems, she would intervene immediately after hearing. That didn't happen. Moreover, the media were informed that SMC had formally requested a copy of the system. Why if the candidate has her at home? Is it so difficult to make a scan that you can do it in the National Assembly and the matter would probably be resolved; or is it not? The thing stays open. Personally, I was disturbed by the fact that the candidate talked a lot about her experience in the economy, but when we read her CV or data on the website of the National Assembly, there is no such information. Why did she just let him go? What for? Is it possible that she was ashamed to work in a company that is already in bankruptcy or has some unpleasant business concerning debt to citizens? Maybe. But that's what they say. When we asked her specifically, we didn't get any answers or it turned out that the candidate didn't know what she was saying. Her colleague asked her exactly about high school textbooks. The candidate spoke about the preparation of textbooks and the colleague talked about the fact that textbooks were that the deadline had expired already in 2008, but not in force. She didn't even know what she was asking. I also personally asked the candidate about the Convention on Human Rights, a very important Article 28 and asked her for only 3 areas of this Convention, or 3 points, which will be the central thread of the Convention, in order to bring this Convention to full effect in our country. I'm sorry. She couldn't answer that. Moreover, she replied, "What is the problem with this convention?" That's what happened. But the fact is, I exactly believe that you know what this convention says. The first of the ministers, according to Dr. Cerar, said in his opening address that we all know our colleague Markež. I'm sorry, I don't know her. We sat together on one of the committees where she practically never discussed. Even in the National Assembly, I rarely heard it. Then how am I supposed to know her? I know that all of this, respected, is some bad elements or bad messages to our citizens and citizens for the future minister, who will take over an important, diverse and extensive area. And what was the worst thing for me? In the coalition contract, you also have a change in the kindergarten curriculum. For 8 months, this government, including the minister who is now on the move or is no longer coming, would probably be new in this area, if there is nothing in your coalition contract, if there is nothing done, at least tell or tell us where we are and when it will be. There was no answer to that question either, Your Honor. It will be difficult to convince me that our questions have been challenging. Not at all. They're very simple. The area with which the future minister will deal is so difficult that the key issues are yet to come. But her answers, respected, even if there are good hearts and beautiful smiles, were simply not enough for the function she was to perform. And here I believe that the sentence she gave at the time of the appointment of Dr. Cerar is a real risk. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u63	The word has magic. Andrej Shircelj, get Mr. Benedict Kopmeyer ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! I must say that I have reviewed the magnetogram, where the candidate for minister gave her vision of the portfolio, which I think is extremely important and which is also the basis of the Slovenian state. Why the foundation of the Slovenian state? In particular because of what has been mentioned very few times today, because this ministry deals mainly with young people. With young people who are not compulsory, with young people in primary schools, high schools and in colleges. And today, even though we are talking about a minister who is responsible and responsible for this part of the population, very few words have been said. There are an estimated 160,000 pupils and students in primary school, about 78 000 pupils and students in secondary schools, and about 100,000 students and students in Imam Slovenia. And what future does this minister give them? There was no talk about this at her performance. What she was going to do for this population wasn't really a word. Today we can talk about programs, we can talk about textbooks, we can talk about all of this, but it's all meant for these people. And neither did the government of Mir Cerar nor the candidate for minister. The next question that arises from this – what is the state of this population today, what is its future and what perspective does the government of Mira Cerar give it, and what perspective and future does that minister give it? There was no discussion of this in the next speech before the Education Committee. Either she doesn't know if she doesn't want to know, or she didn't actually go into it. However, this ministry is the first one responsible for this population. And that, unfortunately, is not why I have very much doubt that this minister will act in the interest of this population. Let us see how many graduates are unemployed or unemployed in Slovenia. 20, 30 thousand of them can be counted as unemployed, who actually have no perspective, but they may currently have student status. And we can talk about so-called additional latent unemployment. And what will the Minister do for those people who have a school today who have graduated, who have a master's degree, who have no job? And she's the one in the first place who needs to make a difference here in the educational process. In the process that we will be able to come up with such solutions and results that young people who will finish school will also be employed. About this area, a respected candidate, not a word, I'm sorry. No regret for me, no regret for us, sorry for this population. And that's why there's a big man. And if a candidate for a minister thinks she'll be the chief administrator of a ministry, then I'll tell her today that it's not her role. Its role is to give young people a vision to set up a strategy and a way to achieve this objective. But the candidate for minister didn't do it. We are talking here about the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, but this ministry is crucial for young people, for the future and for young people. She didn't show what she's actually gonna do here, nor does she want to do anything. What could I do? Will it provide free textbooks? Will she put all the textbooks online? Let's get all the textbooks online! And destroy the monopolies in the field of education, which are also in the Institute of Education. What's she gonna do with the textbooks? Why doesn't he put all the textbooks online? Easy! What she will do in the field of textbooks, that people will have, to say this, more unified textbooks or that there will be fewer textbooks for an individual subject, if we talk for example about mathematics, physics and so on. Is she going to do some rationalization here? He can do something for people here. Here he can do something for his students, his parents, and his expenses. Don't tell me, you know, because some people have access to the Internet, some people don't have access to the Internet, and so on. Have all the textbooks that the Institute of Education produce on the Internet. And she'll be able to do a lot of things here. The availability of knowledge will ensure these young people. It will also ensure that young people are able to choose between different solutions in textbooks, since they are here because of young people. She is not here because of the lobbying, not because of the lobbying in the field of education and not because of the lobbying in the field of publishing, which are extremely important in this work. However, I respect the fact that the future Minister will agree to take into account different opinions and so on, to be cooperative here. But, dear future minister, you will have to make decisions. You will be in the government to make decisions and to bear responsibility for all these decisions. You are not here just to listen on one side of the union, on the other side you will listen to lobbyists who will lobby for individual publishers. You are here to wear your head for sale, and you will also be able to say in an articulated manner to the government what Slovenian society expects and what children and young people expect from you and the Ministry. Otherwise, if you only play an administrative role, this role is absolutely unnecessary. Don't be the first administrator. And here, unfortunately, the future minister didn't say anything in her opening remarks. And if the theory of obedience is true, then perhaps the Prime Minister does not need another obedient minister or minister, but he needs a minister with a vision, a strategy and in order to do so. You are here because of young people, because 15 to 20% of the population today in this country and with this government has no future and has no vision and prospects. But because of us and you, you have to actually show them that young people will not finish schooling; without the prospect of getting a job, and will be unemployed for 5, 10 years. People like that will never get a job again. And people like that will think in front of computers about where their future is. And such people will increasingly be closer to the idea that their future is possible in another country, in another movement; where they are fighting for something and so on, today about ISIS. I do not want any of the parents to be informed that his children are on their way through Istanbul to Syria or any country that is actually happening in Europe. But if young people are out of perspective and the minister does not show this perspective, then something like this could happen in Slovenia. And what she will do, for example, in this case, if we look at some news today — the drug poisoning of young people in Jesenica. What is the Minister going to do about it? She is also responsible for ensuring the safety of young people. And what she's going to do about the information that we still have in our textbooks, we have a tolar and so on. But we don't have who's president of this country today. This is what we're talking about. Look online today and you'll find this news. This will have to be decided by the future minister, and unfortunately she didn't say anything about it. This justifiably raises the question of who will lead the ministry – whether it is she or the President of the Government, or some other lobbies and monopolies? From the unions forward. This is the issue that is particularly topical today. The next question that is being asked here, and today also expressed by my colleagues and colleagues, is public or private education. No, ladies and gentlemen, good education, professional education, competitive education, on the basis of which graduates will be employed in Slovenia and elsewhere. This is a fundamental question. And if we're talking about education, let's ask ourselves that first. And that's why the minister is going to provide good education, competitive education, professional education, education, where students will know something, and who will also come with knowledge and awareness that they can be proud of their country. Unfortunately, that's not what today is. My colleagues, some of them, I'm not going to name them, have in advance glorified the future minister. The future minister will be able to prove herself in all of this, and if she does, she'll get my congratulations. If it doesn't, it's still a few years behind for young generations. So far, the minister hasn't said a word about it, she hasn't said what the strategy is, and she hasn't said what she's going to do for the young. That's why he can't get my support.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u65	Thank you. Mr Benedict Kopmajer has the floor to prepare himself for the Mag. Ange Logar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! As has been said several times today, it is not an easy resort today by our candidate, our colleague Mrs Mag. Claudius Marquez is taking over. Not at all in the light of the rationalisation of costs in primary education, which I will focus on today in a few points. At the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, experts, as they have done for the human resources and salary information system, will have to prepare software for all schools for accounting, for teaching electronic documentation, e-accounts, archiving, e-documentation. Each school now manages this individually with external bidders, and the amounts are for each institution in thousands of euros. They must also pay for all upgrades to computer programmes, which are very common due to many legislative changes in a wide variety of areas. Secondly, it will be necessary to reduce the emergency costs they have in schools by fulfilling the obligations imposed by other ministries. Each year there are several rules that must be implemented and require additional financial resources, at a time when we are talking about rationalisation and savings. For example, first aid team members have to have a nursing course, each team member’s education is over 300 euros, and schools must also have multiple teams according to size. So the costs go back to thousands of euros. Various mandatory inspections of devices and equipment, the costs of operators are abnormally high, I mean lift checks, safety lighting, work protection, similar three-year medical examinations of teachers, HACCP and more. Thirdly, public procurement, of course, general public procurement, where it is possible for all institutions. Fourthly, the Ministry should prepare for schools all the internal acts they need; however, believe me, dozens. They do not have lawyers in schools, so they often spend needlessly on buying money from different suppliers. To bring together institutions whose tasks are often hidden, such as the Pedagogical Institute, Institute of Education, School of Directors. Six, also taking some unpopular action for parents, for example, to introduce a nuisance for textbooks, are now free for several years. Even for those parents who would otherwise be able to pay one third of the value. Socially weak people could still have textbooks for free. For many years, the Ministry has not been able to obtain new textbooks for savings. The costs at the level of the country go to millions of euros, as well as a scale for subsidising schools in nature, similar to those for school lunches. Now everyone gets a grant, including those, if I may say so, wealthy. On the week, in the field of carrying out school tasks, it must also consider eliminating national knowledge checks in order to save money, since the current design does not have any impact on pupils' success, not on enrolment in secondary school, nor on the scholarship; therefore, students are not motivated to write tests. Therefore, the results are also often unobjective and, on the basis of this, it is difficult to make any evaluation or to change the method of verification in order to be valid. Expansion of implementation by statutory obligations; compulsory introduction of optional selection items, introduction of compulsory foreign language into the first triad, especially because they do not have sufficient skills in all schools, as foreign language teachers are not supposed to be qualified to carry out this training. I believe that they are fully qualified; with what module should they acquire only additional knowledge to work with younger students. It is totally unacceptable that we should do a two-year additional study, of course, the tuition costs a few thousand euros again, not to mention the extra time spent, travel costs and so on – to teach a course for which they already have a university degree. Under the Education and Education Financing Act, teachers are expected to cease to be able to perform part of their schooling obligation even for subjects for which they do not have vocational education, but have already performed these tasks successfully. This option is intended to be extended to allow them to maintain full employment, otherwise they will be employed for a short period of time from full-time work, they will be entitled to a share of retirement, while other teachers from neighbouring schools will only attend individual schools for a few hours per week, for example one and a half hours for the household or natural science of 3 hours; this means additional transport costs for the Ministry and major organisational problems for schools. The integration of schools — large savings for the ministry and municipalities in cases where parental schools or branch schools are small, close to other schools, for example, only a few kilometres away and not in demographically endangered areas, possible transport to maternity schools. And the workforce plan, minus 1%, is not a solution in education. It is better to reduce the increased volume of work, teaching for the teacher, but as long as the union decides, of course this will not be possible. To the conclusion. No change in the staffing or financial area introduced for the public sector shall be introduced in education during the school year, as education is a specificity where work is planned for the school year and not for the calendar year. All interventions during the school year have a negative impact on the process of education and education, cause dissatisfaction among employees, and this greatly affects the quality of work. Example of this year's suspension of payments of additional professional assistance and so on. The Ministry of Education, Science and Sport should not intervene in matters not within its competence, such as the Deskla case, because solving such problems is a matter of school, school inspection and the world of school. I hope that the candidate for all these suggestions and problems in primary education, which I have highlighted today, will find solutions. I believe the candidate will take the opportunity. I'm gonna let her do it with my voice today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u67	Thank you. Now he has the floor, Mr. Franz Jurša. Let's get the mags ready. Ange Logar. He's not here. Then you're a magician. Ange Logar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u68	Thank you, Madam President. At the beginning of this debate, I think we must acknowledge and acknowledge that this government has already burned down in the field of human resources. But it's not the first. The moment this national council voted mag. Alenko Bratušek as Prime Minister of the Government, in the event of the appointment of the most responsible functions in this country, has lowered the criteria to a level at which no one can now be identified in any way. Therefore, in this respect, colleague Markež's candidacy, given that she does not have one day of experience in the execution and because she does not have one day of experience in the state administration, in the departmental ministry, there can be no exception. Mr Cerar, Prime Minister of the Government, sang praises to the candidate in the introduction. In a way, it makes sense. Some of my forerunners have already warned of this, and I can tell myself that he just returned the favor of 25 years ago. 8. when the vote was taken on Mr Cerar as Prime Minister of the Government. As we know, Markež's colleague then forged Mr Cerar into the stars, using very high words. Among other things, she said, "He has gathered around himself a team of like-minded people, people with high ethical principles, people who believe in the values of this society; and together with them he has prepared a great programme to restore dignity and trust in the rule of law, which I think is very important at this point." Now he's chosen her in this circle that advocates high ethical principles. This has placed a heavy burden on her, and now colleague Markeževa must also respect and respect these high moral ethical principles. And that's worth remembering for when we're considering some work. And then, my colleague Markeževa is 25. 8. said of Mr Cerar: "He is a person who in me, with his charisma, arouses authority and respect. He does not do all this with words, but with his conduct, culture, principle, values that he carries on to individuals. And that's where this problem comes in. After six months of the government of Mr Cerar, we find that this conduct is not in line with those words which were placed in his mouth at the beginning of his term of office. Remember, this government has a minister, the first lawyer to violate the Constitution, violated human rights and exceeded his powers. He has a minister who has violated the basic law under which he operates – the Law on Defence. And she had a minister who advocated public education, and she served her private fat service. And there are a few other cases like this. He is now proposing a candidate for a minister who has been raised quite a bit of dust in public. Remember, Dubai, an alleged arrangement of its own by the means of a human university, a master's degree. And that's what worries me. Faced with such a burden – not whether it is true or not, but given that a person with such a pedigree or such an overture takes a particularly important position, I assure you, according to his own experience, that this will continue to be the case in the future. And I hope there's nothing true about those words. For if it is, the government imposes an additional burden on itself by such appointment during the crucial period of privatisation. Such a government would be even easier to bring down during such a period. And why the crucial period of privatisation? Yesterday there was a broadcast of Tarč on national television, where a representative of Desus announced publicly that they were putting pressure on the brakes on privatisation. And of the three coalition partners now, SMC is just the one who advocates privatisation. And if anything, if it is to implement its policy, it must have people in its ranks who have absolutely no stain and who have absolutely no skeleton in their closets to fall during the term of office from this closet and thus cause a government crisis. But with the writing of the media, I fear that the future minister will be an easy target for those who want to overthrow privatisation. The Prime Minister himself said that there are some people behind this government who are getting on their nerves. So the day Miro Cerar met his uncles in the background. Now let me finish. She's a 25-year-old candidate. 8. When, as I mentioned, he praised Mr Cerar for a great deal, he said, "more than that, I am sure that his story is our story". Yes, if you confirm today's colleague Markezevo, that will be her story. And she said then, "I expect responsible, principled and fair leadership." Over the past six months, I say, opinions are different, but in my opinion we have not seen them. I'm afraid we're not going to do that with this human resources reinforcement either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u69	Thank you. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? I see it's an interest. I'm asking you to sign up. You can't have a replica because you haven't discussed it. I'm asking you to sign up. Each debater has 5 minutes of time available. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u70	Thank you for your word. This morning, I was furious that I had been forgot to report to the debate in my parliamentary group. Maybe it's because I know too much about the department. If this session were to be closed to the public right now, I'd tell you a bunch of dirty high school stories and how they were supposed to be handled. The position of our Group of Members has been expressed. Whether Mrs Markež will be the best or the worst Minister for Education, you find out somehow through your finger. Just because someone's cute to have a nice smile doesn't mean anything. I was born in elementary school, but maybe I could be the best minister for education, maybe even the worst. It is not necessarily that you are a Marxist, not necessarily reading the good old Althusser; but what Mrs Ludmila said does not. The school is an ideological apparatus of the state, which everyone is aware of, usually in each coalition the main party holds this resort. So far in Slovenia, if I counted correctly, 10 people – 2 ladies and 8 gentlemen. Everyone had a doctorate in science, which obviously didn't help them much, given the situation in the department. For example, the old LDS was very well aware of the importance of this department and was managed by Mr Gaber for almost a decade in four mandates to express himself in this way. There are two key issues here, and I don't have much time. The first is that this ministry is too big, too much stuff. When the United Left goes to executive power, I will propose to cut it into a ministry that goes from day care to the end of secondary school plus lifelong education; that sport goes to culture; that research and higher education go along with technology and economy, which some smarter countries do and do. What's the situation in that facility I know myself, you see. It was very nice when the Mandarins gathered and said what and how. Of course, I got the fees myself, about as gross as one net minister, but I'll explain it another time. My colleagues and I also brought three-quarters of a million to the FDV in a 30-million-dollar project, but we were more sidetracked; since that three-quarters of a million, I probably didn't even get 2% of the gross in my salary, even though my colleague Simono Závrnik and I have done half of the project. Even more, even my closest associates stole the points for Cobis behind my back. In higher education — all younger, almost under 40 years of age, if they are not politically licked or perhaps even if they are not lovers, they are in very difficult situations. We will have very soon in higher education, just like we have in journalism, a generation gap. Our higher education will usually go a little in the direction of pensioners. If I touch it, I have children in almost every level of education except kindergarten. Curriculum changes were announced, I didn't hear where the colleague was going to follow. I have analyzed twice the entire magnetogram of the meeting of the committee in detail, and I can say that this is a fine proof that there is no sociology in Slovenia. This is what you call sociology, it's one of those quasi neoliberalist evening nebulosis that talks about competences, talks about all living things. What I heard here today points to a major problem that the National Assembly has. The fact that we have become Members and Members does not mean that we know everything; and we will have to learn a little. Couple of cases. The apprenticeship, the apprenticeship, the apprenticeship. You need masters first for the apprenticeship. Do we have them? Second. Let's put it all on the Internet. You need readers. Do we have them? Which one, whose one, from where? There's been a lot of talk in here. My colleague doesn't have a good trip either. Mr Cerar himself said somehow – yes, if we don't find something better. A man who is the Prime Minister of the Government should be advised. Of course, we will not support it, not because of a colleague herself, but because of the approach that is foreign to us. I hope that in due course we will take over, because of course we will want to have this ministry. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u71	Thank you. The word has Mr. Andrej Chuš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u72	Thanks again for saying that. At the outset, I would like to say that I expected much more substantive debate at this point today; but I have found that the members of the coalition were no longer reading the written positions, three to five minutes long, and their heads were pushing as low as possible. If this is a policy that will take Slovenia out of the crisis, then I think we will be in crisis for a long time. I have talked in particular about the problem in Slovenian sport and the situation of young people in society. Since I have a few minutes left, I would like to touch on the other important challenges facing the Minister. The law on higher education was amended 25 times in the National Assembly. This means that the marriage itself is bad, that it does not follow the needs. Certainly not the best passenger from the committee to accept these changes in the future. Two analyses or drafts of the Higher Education Act are prepared. If we go any further in the preparation of a new separate document, I don't think this law will last much longer. However, the financing of higher education in Slovenia, according to the Constitutional Court, is unconstitutional. Just ask yourself what will happen if someone really wants this judgment to come into force. It means that higher education will not be financed at all. Then it'll be a problem because this house doesn't react, and the government doesn't. Even at the hearing, I did not hear one concrete measure in order to prevent the teacher's elite from getting rich, so that some professor would get 600,000 dollars in fees in ten years while getting a good salary. This is about making fun of people. On the other hand, he tells all stakeholders in the department to work for free. I think we need to work this out. Mr Trček also highlighted the lack of young staff in higher education. Today, and even after the last draft of the Higher Education Act, they would do so so that every regular professor would be protected more than a nomadic bear; young researchers, professors and assistants should be crippled every now and then under much stricter conditions. But a regular professor wouldn't need to habilize any more. So it's some kind of systemic inequality again. The educational system – the fact is, we are in the 21st century. This is what you all like to stress when we talk about human rights or should talk about human rights. You know, globalisation will also lead to the need for the education system to adapt to trends in the world. More practical knowledge, more integration with the economy and as few theories as possible, please. Today, the problem is that they come from high school with some sort of vocational education, and they hardly have to learn at work what awaits them. This certainly is not a good promise and we would need concrete solutions here. But we all know who started the degradation of vocational education in Slovenia. That was then Eldees' minister, Mr. Gaber. I would like to commend Mr Shirtzl's debate on young people. I am pleased that more and more Members and Members are aware that young people in Slovenia do not have a perspective, so I am also supporting all the activities that will go towards solving the youth problem. It is true that there was not much talk on the committee about this, for young people do not go to the polls, and we do not have to bother and worry about them. In the debates today, I also heard a drive against private education. Compared to primary education, we have three private primary schools and 747 public schools. And then you all make a public declaration here – we are for public education. Look at the structure, because we have public education. We only have three private schools if I'm looking at primary school. Now, don't fool around here and sell some passwords, 'cause that's a little funny. Last but not least, I would like to say, as the drafter of the Law on measures in the field of traineeships, that I expect the Minister to take concrete action and activities in order to prepare a law that will address the issue of volunteer traineeships as soon as possible. The government said it would take 3 months to analyse and study; but I have already received almost the answers of all ministries in the last month, how many volunteer trainees there are. I don't think we'd really need much time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u73	Thank you. Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u74	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Perhaps, at the outset, a few answers in relation to the discussion and position of the SDS Group Member. It was said that there were political attempts to discredit the opposition. Ladies and gentlemen, we have read in the media what is supposed to be happening at Ptuj's Human University, and what is supposed to be happening in her employment as an entrepreneur, and I will not mention him. We have seen in the media what a candidate for a minister said; no, I oppose alcohol at sports events. Then it comes to the Internet image when three days ago it holds a glass of beer in its hands. We weren't the ones looking for her master's degree, the press is asking questions and so on. In short, no political discredit comes from the opposition, but the media is digging. As they probably are, they're looking at all of us Members. After all, we are Members of the SDS a little bit more on the ground and they are more investigating us when we have done something right or wrong. Then it was said that no one was good enough for SDS. The Prime Minister of the Government himself indicated that if there were no others, Mrs Claudius would be a good candidate. And I said in the position of the Group of Members that it has some good, even professional, historical moments that might help, but in our opinion it has many shortcomings. If Mr Rajić and Mrs Markeževa have had a beer together, we do not see any problem, otherwise we could be invited to join us. But the problem is, the minister's candidate said no to alcohol at sports events. In practice, she drank a glass. A little two-faced, you don't think. Like they'd tell me, I support nothing, and in half an hour, I'd do the opposite. Of course, then we are judged by the public and cut by the elements. Perhaps another sentence regarding those who have said what the government of John Janša has done badly in the field of law and needs to be changed. I will not list the Members who said this, from the ZUJF to the professional examinations, to the teaching aid and so on. Dear Members of the SMC, Desus and SD, you are in the government. Change the ZUJF, easily, with regard to learning aid we have made an amendment to the budget, you have rejected it. In short, don't say anything, but do something completely different. I personally stand by my position that the candidate lady is a very nice lady, but that her work may present a problem with her sympathy. There won't be a problem with the opposition. When she sits at various meetings – whether it will be the harmonisation of laws, social dialogue, and so on – when the other stakeholders mentioned at her hearing will come along, she will only see, as I said in my position, that sometimes it is better than smiling to have boxing gloves with her. We also supported it, said that we support its efforts, but that somehow it will pursue this goal that private education in Slovenia should not be destroyed, even the small percentage that we have. We expect that, in this half-year, she has gained enough political experience as a Member, because, unfortunately, she herself has said that she does not have any other political experience. I believe that for a lot of Members, if there is a mandate sitting, I don't know, on a local education committee, on a sport, maybe in a public institution that has a sense of what's going on in the field. But the candidate has two issues as an expert and also as a political competence – a half-year-old MP, the director of the Ptuj Human University and also the president of the Association of Human Universities. Primary school, preschool education, secondary education, universities, sports, youth – her CV in this area is zero, unfortunately. And that's why we're afraid and we're joining the doubt of the Prime Minister that maybe, I hope we're really wrong, we're wearing too many shoes. I hope I'm wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u75	This concludes the debate. We will decide on the proposal for a candidate for a minister in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the votes. With this, I also interrupt this agenda item. We're moving to 8. Period of the day, it's on the motion for a bank law in another defense. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Mrs Irena Sodin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u76	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to introduce briefly the main solutions contained in the proposed Banking Act. Most solutions are based on the Directive on access to the activities of credit institutions and on the prudential supervision of credit institutions and investment firms. The bill provides the basis for better bank management as it tightens the requirements for corporate and business management of banks. It redefines risk management and defines the responsibilities and responsibilities of the members of the bank's administration more clearly. The proposal further introduces strict criminal sanctions. The fines for some of the worst violations follow the fines of the banking directive. It is based on the knowledge that the freedom to provide services allows banks to choose their country of establishment and thus the penal framework to be applied to them. In order to prevent banks from moving to countries with less stringent sanctions, the European Union has unified the amount of fines. The application of the principle of proportionality, one of the leaders of criminal law, must take into account the characteristics of the entire European Union area and thus the size and actions of all European banks. This means that, following the principle of proportionality, the Slovenian Bank cannot be given the same fine as, for example, a large bank of a Member State. The draft law also regulates additional capital buffers. In addition to the capital requirements, banks will be obliged to meet the security capital buffer, which is the same for all banks in the European Union and the countercyclical capital buffer, which is determined at the national level. In addition to these two buffers, a systemic risk buffer, a global systemically important bank buffer and a buffer for other systemically important banks shall be introduced. The bill strengthens the supervision of banks. On the basis of the risk assessment, the Bank of Slovenia will draw up a supervisory programme for each bank and implement more frequent and systematic application of on-the-spot control measures. Monitoring will be based on stronger standards and future-oriented assessments by supervisory authorities. The draft law takes account of the latest regulatory changes in European Union law and takes into account the fact that the power to exercise control over Slovenian banks has partly been transferred to the European Central Bank. Allow me to present, on this occasion, a position on two issues related to the adoption of this law. First, it is clear that the proposal for a law does not address all banking-related issues and that the banking regime is therefore fragmented and consequently unclear. It is true that the bill does not deal with all the issues of the operation of banks. Some will be regulated in future legislative proposals. This will propose special laws for the resolution of banks in difficulty and for the deposit guarantee system. Since the draft Banking Act under consideration does not contain rules governing that area, the application of the current law is maintained in this part. It thus results in the transitional fragmentation of legislation, which does not affect legal certainty, since it is clear when any law is applied. The second question relates to the letter from the information officer. It notes that certain provisions of the law are inconsistent with the Constitution, as they would allow the processing of data for another purpose, as pursued by the system of exchange of data on client creditworthiness, and should allow for the permanent storage of personal data. With regard to the purpose of processing data, I stress that the disputed provision is merely an upgrade [[sign for the end of the debate]] Article 366. This supplement has not yet been amended and provides that data in the system are also used for the purpose of statistical reporting and control of credit risk. Therefore, the supplement adopted in second reading does not affect the scope of use of the data. The supplement only explains how Banka Slovenije can process data. With regard to the opinion that the supplement allows for permanent storage of personal data [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u77	Please, if you finish slowly [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u78	He also doesn't. [[…]] Only for this part can the Bank keep data for effective control and the changes described cease the proportionality test and are in our opinion in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Finally, I would just like to clarify that, in accordance with Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Government will propose that a third hearing be held at this meeting, as the law will significantly improve financial stability and investor protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of Mrs Urska Ban.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u80	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is held at its 7th session. 3. In 2015, the draft Banking Act, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration, was considered as the parent working body. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which, on a proposal from the law, made some general comments and specific comments to each article of this Act. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendments to the draft law were tabled by the Group of Ambassadors of the United Left, the SDS Group of Ambassadors, the SD Group of Ambassadors and the SMC, Desus and SD Group of Members. A proposal for an amendment of the Committee to Article 137 has also been submitted to the members and members of the Committee. Representatives of the State Council, the Ministry of Finance, the Bank of Slovenia, the Association of Banks of Slovenia and the Legal and Legislative Service participated in the meeting of the Committee. In the introductory supplementary explanation, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance explained that most of the solutions to the bill are based on the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on access to the activities of credit institutions and on prudential supervision of credit institutions and investment firms, and presented the main solutions to the proposed law. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service drew attention to the comments made by the services in the written opinion. The representative of the Council of State presented the Commission's written opinion on the economy, crafts, tourism and finance, which supports the bill, and expressed some concerns about the potential risks and the future development of the Slovenian banking system. The representative of Banka Slovenije also participated in the debate, explaining that Banka Slovenije supports the early implementation of the proposed law. She stressed that the adoption of the bill would be welcome because, in the context of the operation of the Single Supervisory Mechanism, the ECB is also referring to the directive in its decisions, as it is transposed into the national legal order. It also pointed out that the comments made by the Bank of Slovenia regarding the prior licensing of members of the supervisory boards of banks were not taken into account. Furthermore, a representative of the Association of Banks of Slovenia took part in the debate, stressing that excessive regulation and overregulation of banking regulations are not essential to preventing crises and the stability of the banking system, but that more emphasis should be placed on increasing the competitiveness and profitability of banks and improving ethics and culture in the banking sector. In the debate, some members and members of the committee objected to the adoption of the bill because the proposed solutions cause fragmentation of the banking regime and reduce the transparency and understanding of the legal regime. Individual members of the committee felt that the bill was poorly prepared and did not provide a suitable basis for improving the functioning of banks in the future. In addition, some discussers objected to the adoption of the proposed law, with a large number of amendments tabled, which were also of a substantive nature. The view was also expressed that the solutions proposed do not improve governance, do not increase the responsibility of the Bank of Slovenia and do not have positive effects for citizens. On the other hand, the other members and members of the committee supported the resolution of the draft law, as they considered it necessary to adapt Slovenian European legislation, modernise the banking system, increase responsibility, reduce over-reliance on credit rating agencies and introduce capital buffers for the appropriate action of the Bank of Slovenia. The view was also expressed that the provisions of the proposed law made it possible for banks to operate normally or better in the future under the assumption of confidence in the banking system and the assumption of the operation of regulators. In the debate, the members and members of the Committee paid more attention to Article 33 and the amendments tabled by the SD Group and the United Left, which would also apply to banks the provisions of the law governing the participation of workers in management, and to Article 53 and the amendment tabled by the coalition groups relating to the conditions for the appointment of members of the supervisory board of banks, which eliminates the need to obtain prior permission from the Bank of Slovenia for the performance of this function. According to the amendment's proposer, the Bank of Slovenia also has the leverage necessary to prevent deviations from normal banking. The Committee adopted amendments to the coalition parliamentary groups and to the amendment of the Committee. The other articles of the law were adopted by the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Uroš Prikl has the floor on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! In the Desus Group, we will support the proposed Banking Act in a majority way, allowing for the necessary adaptation of Slovenian European legislation, modernisation of the banking system, reduction of reliance on credit rating agencies and introduction of capital buffers. The great global economic crisis that we are experiencing today has brought us into a situation where, suddenly and in our opinion, we have begun to wonder too late about the reasons for its emergence. The fact is that the catastrophic situation started in the financial sector and quickly spread to the so-called real sector. The improved supervision of the banking system or sector has enabled the issue of inadequate and unsecured loans, which were made on the basis of links and knowledge. In the Desus Group, we were appalled by the information that the losses suffered by the crisis by the European banks amounted to almost one trillion euros or 8% of the European Union's GDP. They were appalled by the fact that we know how the story was written next; the bank hole was tied up with taxpayers' money, but thanks to solidarity, the burden of daily tightening the belt, especially in the area of social and family benefits, scholarships, pensions, and could still be listed. The proposed law is therefore an attempt to address the consequences of a possible similar crisis in the future. It transposes two European Directives into national legislation, while legislation is adapted to three European Union Regulations. The proposal aims to improve financial stability and investor protection, and in particular to reduce the countercyclicality of the financial system. The principle of anti-cyclicality is followed by so-called capital buffers, which are intended to limit excessive credit expansion at the age of economic growth. We all know that there has been an expansion of credits in our country during a period of conjuncture, and we also know that such reckless moves must never be made again. Economist Minsk speaks of the fact that the basis for the crisis is in a situation of economic growth, i.e. conjuncture. There is an increase in optimism and a change of viewpoint on the appropriate amount of debt and risk. Finally, in longer periods of economic stability, forget the risk that borrowers may not be able to repay their debt. Therefore, in the Desus Group we support the introduction of so-called capital buffers that follow the principle of countercyclicality. However, I must point out, of course, that in the Desus Group we had a lot of concerns about the provision that regulates – more correctly – the participation of workers in management. The fourth paragraph of Article 33 states that "the bank shall not be subject to the provisions laid down in the law governing the participation of workers in the management of employees' representatives in the management and supervisory board of banks". In Desus, however, the banks are among the financial companies organised in the form of shares companies, which should also be fully subject to the provisions of the Law on the participation of workers in management, unless a different arrangement is possible, there are no real and, in particular, reasonable and reasonable reasons. In a bill of reasonable reasons why workers in these bodies would not have their representatives, of course, cannot be found. We understand that we cannot prescribe this to foreign-owned banks, but when it comes to state-owned banks, I will not list them in this place, but we will not buy an argument that we cannot afford this at the time of the sale of banks, but what their potential buyer will say. However, it is one of the fundamental rights of workers, which is well understood in countries such as Germany, where employees are represented in the supervisory boards and you will not believe, it will work. Respectfully, this issue would be worth considering in future in other areas where the participation of workers in enforcement is not possible. In this Chamber, we have been united several times in the belief that bank managers played a major role in lending bad loans – I hope they will not be able to sell banks. But perhaps co-management of employees would represent that language in technique that would help increase [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] and the reduction of the possibility of re-species in banks, so the way and the way to co-operate workers in companies and also in financial institutions is to be found. Let me finish. In the light of the record and the inability of the declaration of co-management of employees in financial institutions, we note the important point already explicitly raised by the information officer Mrs. Prelešnik, this is a special attention or concern [[Incomprehensible]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] regarding the use, processing and storage of personal data. It is absolutely necessary to provide the means and means to ensure that personal data are never misused, or that the purpose of the law is clearly completely eliminated. The bill, as it is said, seems good to us in all things, because it represents a step in the right direction; a step in the direction of caution in banking and preparedness for possible future crises of a broader dimension. That is why, as we say, we will support him most of the time in the Desus Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Dr. Franz Križanič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u84	Thank you, Mr. President. A respected choir! Following the launch of the tank in connection with the past operation of the banking system in the Republic of Slovenia, which indicates the side of reckless gambling, we have a new banking law on the table today. Many who are looking exclusively for answers to public statements will not fully comply with the proposed provisions. The primary purpose of the proposal is to introduce directives on access to the activities of credit institutions in Slovenia as one of the members of the European Union and on the prudential supervision of credit institutions and investment firms. Nevertheless, support shall be given to tightening the controls imposed by this law, sanctions and the requirements for the functioning of risk management functions and the definition of the responsibility of members of administrations. We also welcome the reduced role played by credit rating agencies, which are largely responsible for the unreasonable high price at which we cover the banking demand from public funds. In support of the bill's proposal, the Council of State has raised some questions that we are also asking ourselves in the Group of Social Democrats. We expect government representatives to respond to today's debate in particular to those questions regarding the assessment of the preventive potential of the proposal's provisions on bank gambling. Clarifications of the banking sector with regard to the credit crunch, which will be released only on the basis of economic activity, are obviously based on self-help and are therefore a well-known answer to the question which is the constant of the debates on the functioning of the banking system. In the Group of Social Democrats, we expect that a number of debates by the professional and political public will continue to be reflected in more decisive but deliberate changes to sectoral legislation. Thus, we join in the legitimate demands for greater responsibility, transparency and supervision that the Banking proposal touches, but much more will have to be done to achieve the objective. First, it will be necessary to answer all the relevant questions raised when the circumstances of the doctrine of shock are disclosed. We have also sought more than rhetorically answers from the Social Democrats in recent months, as most of them have not yet been given. Until we have complete information on all the relevant facts of the legislative environment, which would prevent the recurrence of the risk of intensive treatment at the expense of public finances, it will not be possible to design. While private stakeholders are persistently offering an instant solution, sales cannot be supported by the Social Democrats. The dimensions of national economic damage would be, are and will be much higher than the costs we will have with these recapitalisations. It is our belief that the functioning of a sector that does not function or acts poorly should be changed, not subject to arguments, but subject to its sale. In the Group of Social Democrats, we have therefore tabled an amendment to the Committee to highlight the second option, the integration of workers' representatives into the administrations and supervisory councils of banks. This is, according to our assessment, one of the key measures to overwind the concept of depraved bad practices. We insist that the participation of workers in management ensures better, more transparent and efficient operation of each company, including banks. The management boards and the supervisory councils refer to the great responsibility to be borne by the management function in the argument of the benefits. However, the protagonists of business customs in the country show that they are the only ones who have so far been responsible for unusual business practices, citizens of Slovenia as beneficiaries of public sector services and workers in these banks, but not because of their work, but because of the conduct and speculation of the superiors. The meaning of the prohibition of participation in business processes of those directly affected by these processes is thus not visible. In the Social Democrats' Group, the proposal for the Banking Act is understood as the first small step in the way of the recovery of the floods of speculation, greed and general irresponsibility. However, this gradual approach will have to be followed by more decisive but deliberate measures. Of course we'll support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr Luka Mesec will present the position of the Joint Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u86	Vice President, thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members! In the United Left, we are committed to increasing the rights of employees to manage businesses. Therefore, we cannot support any law that reduces this right, nor can we support the Banking Act, which expressly prohibits the participation of employees in the management of banks, even though we have tabled an amendment in the United Left to remedy it. In the United Left, we are also reserved for the proposed law because of the negative consequences of the introduction of the European Banking Union for jobs in the countries of the European periphery, including Slovenia. The law requires five new types of capital buffers. So the banks will have to increase their capital. We are surprised, however, that there is not a single figure in the explanation to assess how these additional costs for banks will affect the lending of the economy, or how much more money the banks will have to invest in these buffers. Probably not because they don't speak for this law or speak for the Banking Union. At the same time, we are concerned about how to deepen European economic integration. The obvious consequence of the excessive integration of European countries, which are very unevenly developed, is the deterioration of the situation of peripheral countries in relation to the centre of the European Union. We've got two worlds: an underdeveloped periphery that's developing into underdevelopment, and a center where capital is increasing. Thus, almost all countries in the centre today have a significantly higher gross domestic product than before the crisis. Germany, for example, currently has 3.5% more than before the crisis, and from the countries of southern Europe, they are all far below the GDP levels they had before the crisis. Greek GDP is, say, 25% lower, Italian by 8.6%, Slovenian by 7.3%. From the point of view of unemployment, the center and southern periphery are two completely different worlds. In Greece and Spain, a quarter of the active population is unemployed, despite the constant displacement of the young population, who simply cannot find employment in these countries. What Europe would need at this moment is therefore measures to channel money and investment into the periphery in order to enable the development and increase of employment there. We would expect measures to help the banking sector in the periphery to lend this development, but unfortunately we see quite the opposite. In southern Europe there is still a credit crunch, Spanish, Portuguese, and Greek banks in the last two and a half years, despite the billions of taxpayers' money invested by countries in the banking sector, reducing lending by as much as 25%. The money now lies in banks, and small and medium-sized enterprises in southern Europe and Slovenia cannot reach credits. The power ratios between the banking sector in the centre and at the edge are further exacerbated because of these issues; today centralisation in Europe is greater than ever before. According to data, foreign banks have significantly withdrawn from the countries in which they operated to their home countries from foreign banks in the crisis. This has particularly affected those countries which have relied on foreign capital and foreign ownership of banks for their development models. The decision based on this data is clear: the European banking system does not provide money to areas where it is most needed to ensure growth and raise employment. In the United Left, we are concerned that uneven development in the European Union will be exacerbated by the strengthening of the banking union. One of the reasons for this is the demands for higher capital adequacy of banks, i.e. the 5 new buffers that I described earlier. This concern is also expressed by the OECD study of December 2013, which says that the requirements for additional capital should be expressed in absolute and not in relative figures, so as not to result in further credit cuts if the eligibility requirements increase. In fact, more appropriateness can be achieved by increasing capital or by reducing credit. In the United Left, we are concerned that banks in peripheral countries will in no way be able to reach the countries in the centre and there will be a further decline. The banking union, so we are concerned, will not prevent a new crisis, but will be centralised by the European banking system [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] capital adequacy has reinforced the tendency for capital to be concentrated in the centre, i.e. where there is too much of it now, and drains from the periphery where it would actually be bloody needed to ensure recovery and employment. [[…]] That is why we cannot support this proposal and, in addition, because of limiting employees in the management of banks, we cannot support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished Secretary of State Irene Sodin! The banking sector is certainly privileged compared to that of companies. This is not just for us, but also for other Member States of the European Union. If business and liquidity problems arise, an economic company shall be affected by the applicable so-called insolvency law, following either a compulsory settlement or bankruptcy of a company. At least in the majority, companies cannot count on the country's rescue. In banks, however, the situation is completely different. Banks in difficulty are being saved by the State with tax money, whether it is private banks or state-owned banks. And this solution takes the form of donations. Thus was the actual state of resolution of Slovenian banks so far. Banks, not state or private, but especially their administrations and supervisors, do not deserve these privileges. So this way of saving banks in the future must never happen again. So far, the experience of banks' operations dictates good regulation and, above all, effective supervision. We now have a completely new bill on banking. So a law that is systemic or better said should be systemic, but it is not. In fact, the bill does not repeal the current Banking Act in its entirety, but retains part of these provisions in force and we are critical in our New Slovenia Group, the New Slovenia Group. The very proposal of this new law is, in itself, extensive. He's got a total of 408 articles. It refers to the content of several European Union regulations directly applicable in our domestic legislation. It is therefore necessary to know the content of these regulations when reading legal provisions. Banking legislation is becoming less transparent and, from the point of view of the nomotechnicians, we are very critical to the proposal of today's law. In this part, we fully agree and share the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which has pointed out this acute problem. With regard to the content of today's bill, we first note that several European directives adopted over the last two years aimed at ensuring the stability of the banking system, while maintaining the freedom to set up banks and the freedom to provide services, are being transposed into our legal order. The essence of these directives is that each individual bank must take over the bulk of risk management and then the banking group within which the individual bank operates. Each individual bank must have a properly regulated internal organisational structure, established internal control mechanisms and effective risk management processes, with a clear delimitation of powers and responsibilities in the bank and an appropriate remuneration policy for members of the management boards and supervisory boards. Banks and banking groups must have a system of mandatory and different capital buffers. With regard to the supervisory councils of banks in New Slovenia, we support the licensing of members of the Supervisory Board. Why? First of all, because the bill under consideration today already provides for permission to serve as members of the banks' administrations, but not as members of the supervisory board. In our view, however, supervisors must have at least the same, if not better competence in banking, if they are to exercise their supervisory function effectively. Licensing therefore improves the quality of bank management. In fact, if the candidate for a member of the Supervisory Board meets the conditions, the authorisation will only be a formality. However, if the applicant fails to meet the eligibility criteria, it is appropriate that he is not authorised to serve as a member of the Supervisory Board, in particular with a view to protecting the interests of the bank. With regard to the introduction of mandatory licensing of members of the supervisory boards of banks, we have tabled an amendment in New Slovenia and we are counting on support for this amendment. We further stress that effective external control, i.e. by the central supervisor, is also important for the stability of the operation of the individual bank, and that this is the Bank of Slovenia, and since last November also by the European Central Bank. In this respect, we support greater powers and the role of supervisors, as presented in the proposal for a law. However, Members of New Slovenia - Christian Democrats insist on the fact that it is necessary to privatise banks in state ownership as soon as possible. As we have seen in the management of banks so far, private banks are significantly better managed than state banks. In the case of possible new necessary recapitalisations, which are already a reality in the current state of bad credits in state banks, we do not agree that such a burden has ever been passed on to taxpayers again. The draft banking law will be supported by Members of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats if our amendment is adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mag. Alenka Bratušek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Alliance Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u90	Thank you, Vice President. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen! The Banking Act, ZBAN-2, is one of those laws that I can safely claim to be a long-awaited law. The Slovenian legal order is expected to introduce a European directive that will ensure the safe and transparent functioning of banks, the efficient operation of banks and the effective management of risks in banks, adequate supervision of the banking system, the protection of depositors, the introduction of protective capital buffers and countercyclical capital buffers, and we expected it to address effectively some of the systemic problems of the Slovenian banking system that we have been talking about for some time. In the previous term, for example, the National Assembly acted as the Investigative Commission for the Identification of Abuses in the Slovenian Banking System. The Commission of Inquiry, for all those who are not aware of its operation, has identified on the one hand the causes that have led to the extremely expensive rehabilitation of the banking system and, on the other hand, has provided some sources to prevent any recurrence of the problems of the banking system. We all know that the official start of the financial crisis is attributed to the US company's collapse and related trading in third-rate mortgage loans and other derivatives. The crisis of mortgage loans and derivatives quickly followed the collapse of the interbank market, which caused the liquidity of banks. The result of the illiquidity of banks is a well-known loan spasm. The main features of the credit crunch are thus manifested in a large lack of confidence, mainly by banks, to borrowers and a large lack of available money. The rapid deleveraging of banks in foreign markets, which exceeded €8.3 billion or 23% of GDP from the outbreak of the crisis to November 2013, has affected the limited availability of enterprises to finance and the slow change of their funding structure in favour of an increased share of equity. In view of the small share of equity and the consequent high dependence on loans, Slovenian companies have faced difficulties in accessing additional funds or reprogramming existing ones. The bankruptcy of companies, the collapse of the construction sector, the payment non-discipline, the increasing number of unemployed and the deleveraging of Slovenian business banks in international financial markets are the main reasons we have been talking about the very expensive rehabilitation of the banking system over the past few months. Bank over-indebted on the one hand and corporate over-indebted on the other hand almost brought Slovenia to its knees. We all wondered justifiably how it was possible for us to come to such a situation. It was certainly one of the most logical answers to seek out in control or better in the absence of this. Thus, we have heard on numerous occasions that the banks, mostly state owned by administrations and supervisory councils, had the right personnel; those belonging to the relevant political power, competence, competence were of secondary importance. Of course, we were surprised to learn that the coalition decided not to include mandatory licensing of supervisors in the text of the law. Surprisingly, as has already been said, it is clearly the control of the one who has failed, and it is the supervisor who should be responsible and competent to control the administration and to prevent possible irregularities, such as the granting of unsecured loans and the like. The former governor, Dr. Kranjec, even stated that he was saddened by the knowledge that state bank supervisors knew only so many times about them that they had an open transaction account there. In the Alliance, we were justifiably expected that supervision in banks would only be further strengthened, so that we could even think about issuing a licence to all bank employees to do their work. The Alliance's parliamentary group has also tabled an amendment for supervision, reintroducing mandatory licensing for supervisors. However, we call on the ruling coalition to give serious thought to the possible introduction of compulsory licensing for all bank employees. We will not oppose the bill in our parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Even for punctuality. Mag. Dušan Verbič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Members and Members, Secretary of State, a very nice greeting! The aim of the bill is to transpose the legislation of the European Union, which directly governs the banking area. One of the most important innovations comes from the regulations, and here I would count only three; it is 1024, 575 and 806 and Directive 2013/36, which means the establishment of a single control mechanism. This means the first step towards a banking union. We will certainly be talking about this in Parliament this year. Under the Banking Act 2, each bank in Slovenia will have to establish a stable internal governance regime that will include a clear organisational structure, efficient risk management processes, including recovery plans, appropriate internal control mechanisms and appropriate remuneration policy and practice. The law improves bank management as the requirements for corporate and business management of banks are tightened. It also pursues other objectives that do not come from the European acquis as a transfer of the management of the information exchange system on client creditworthiness to the Bank of Slovenia. They are also added by law to the Bank of Slovenia in order to give the bank a fine of up to twice the amount of profits obtained through the infringement, if any, and 10% of the total annual net turnover. The Bank of Slovenia will also be able to give a maximum of EUR 5 million to a member of the Board and the Supervisory Board. In the SMC, however, we particularly welcome the introduction of buffers that have already been mentioned. This prevents banks from acting pro-cyclically in good times and from contributing to overheating the economy. Of course, this has the power to restrict Banka Slovenije, which would need such instruments in 2006 until 2009. With regard to the obligation to protect confidential data, it should be pointed out that Article 126 of the Law provides that a diction is not applicable to the obligation of the bank to protect confidential data if that information is required in writing by the Commission to prevent corruption or is required in writing by the court, the State Prosecutor or the police, as a result of the conduct of a pre-trial or criminal procedure, unless the law expressly lays down the order of the investigating judge for the transmission of confidential data. In doing so, it should be pointed out that the Constitutional Court has also repealed certain decisions of the Public Information Act. It stressed that that human right also includes the entitlement of business entities to retain information from their domestic business sphere in secret. The constitutionally protected business secrets relate to information or data of a business nature relating to the business or activity of a business entity are not already publicly known and are, by content, likely to cause significant damage to their disclosure. Business secrecy has a particularly strong constitutional weight in banking. In the SMC Group, we welcome all of the above solutions to the draft Banking Act-2. It is true that the law was very much amended on the committee, but we have also postponed the consideration of the law for one month in order to bring it into line with all stakeholders. In SMC, we will support the Banking Act-2 because it provides a good basis for improving corporate governance of all credit institutions in Slovenia and for restoring confidence in the banking system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik will present the position of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u94	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! Initially, Slovenia is the only one of the transition countries that has had to rehabilitate the banking system for the second time at the expense of taxpayers. The last resolution of the banking system has cost us taxpayers more than €5 billion so far. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we expected to amend and supplement the Banking Act at least one year ago. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we were also aware of the situation in the Slovenian banking system in the previous term and were repeatedly alerted by the necessity to amend and supplement both the Bank of Slovenia Act and the Bank of Slovenia Act, but we ran into deaf ears and all our comments, the additions to these two laws were rejected. Today, too, when presenting the amendments and additions to the Banking Act, both by coalition parties and by the Ministry of Finance or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, we were able to listen to how this law will ensure better management of banks, greater security for investors, better corporate governance and better business management of banks. The fact is that this law, which we have before us Members and Members of Parliament, in just a way, in 90% of the European Commission's directive, takes the opinion of the European Parliament and the Council on access to the activities of credit institutions and on the prudential supervision of credit institutions and investment firms. According to the Slovenian Democratic Party, the law was written very superficially and very poorly. This opinion was also endorsed by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and we do not really understand in the SDS that 408 articles of this Act had to be corrected; or nomotechnic or otherwise. Such legislation is already in preparation, in fact, doubting that this law on Banking Supplementation will help to improve the management and improvement of the banking system in Slovenia. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the amendment itself and the addition of the ZBan-2 law will not contribute to this or will not give any assurance that in Slovenia we will not rehabilitate the bank for the third time at the expense of taxpayers. The only measure to ensure this is, of course, the privatisation of the banking system and, on the one hand, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we estimate that supervision of the three largest system banks is now under the auspices of the European Central Bank and that this will ensure that the Slovenian banking system works better, more efficient, more transparent, and in particular that it will have no impact on the taxpayer's money. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have also proposed an addition to Article 126 of this Act on the basis of the Home Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. In the light of all the above, the amendment shall ensure that the protection of confidential data referred to in Article 215 of this Law does not apply if the Bank has received State aid or is subject to measures under the Act on the measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks, and that data is required by the National Assembly, the Staff of the National Assembly or the Investigation Commission of the National Assembly. We are confident that taxpayers need to know why and what the money is for. Now, generally speaking, this law itself is badly written. Each article also had to be supplemented or corrected; on the other hand, the law is fragmented. On the one hand, we hear that, in part, ZBan-1, ZBan-2 will still be in force, which we estimate will lead to a decrease in transparency, and in support of this law alone, we stress in the Slovenian Democratic Party that it is also dependent on whether the amendment coalition will support or not the 126th Article submitted by the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u95	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 26 March 2015. I therefore put to the debate Article 4 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? Please sign up. Nothing. Nobody. I'm sorry. Can you sign up again? Thank you very much. So, I give the floor to Mrs. Nada Brinovšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u96	Thank you for your word, chairman, and a nice greeting to everyone in the hall! Well, at the time of its adoption in 1999, the Banking Act contained about 200 articles. Gradually, in all these 15 years, it has been said to date, this law has been changed, supplemented, and now we have 408 articles. As a result, I would expect that the more a marriage is being supplemented, the more we call it drinking, the better it should be, or the better it should be. But all these additions and changes unfortunately didn't improve the law. They haven't improved the banks' banking position. More than that, I'd say they've turned him into the worst. The situation is getting worse as we see what our citizens feel in their pockets – here I am thinking of a bank hole – Slovenia is falling on all comparable scales, and in the media we are constantly monitoring all possible information about how the country is spreading with taxpayers' money. I am convinced that more than the law contains articles, the situation is worse, and there is more chance of this law being bypassed. This existing law, with its 408, is being amended today in 134 articles and has been proposed by the coalition for the most part. I'm afraid -- no, I'm going to say here that I believe -- that we're going to be changing this law again this year. Let me mention here that, at the end of January, the Legislative and Legal Service in its report pointed out that the proposed solutions or amendments cause fragmentation of the banking regime, resulting in a significant reduction in transparency, which creates legal certainty. In view of this opinion, on the same day the Ministry of Finance requested that this law be withdrawn or transferred from the February session to the March session. But unfortunately, even for this session, at least for the Committee on Finance, these amendments were not harmonised. However, they were not coordinated between the coalition and the government – at least that was the way it was understood by the Committee on Finance – and I am raising a question here because it has been a month before these amendments were aligned between the coalition and the government. I also have the question of whether these 134 amendments will achieve what is the biggest problem in banking. I have a lot of questions here. I have to say what we're going to do with these 134 amendments. I wonder if we will address the causes and dangers that have put Slovenia in a position when it had to be addressed by rehabilitation and recapitalisation of banks by the so-called bank hole. With these changes or amendments, will we be able to prevent the new bank gambling we have witnessed in recent years and all these anomalys that have taken place? Do such proposed solutions, to a greater extent than they have predicted, or do they ensure that the operations of banks in the future will be more cautious, that I do not say otherwise? Will this increase the bank's responsibility to the State Parliament? Will the Bank be able to disclose confidential information in the event that it has received State aid and that this information is needed by the National Assembly and the Commission of Inquiry? I also wonder whether the receipts of administrative and supervisory boards in banks which are predominantly state-owned will be adequately limited in relation to receipts from other or other state institutions. Will these amendments make it impossible to pay too many awards to members of bank administrations as well as to members of supervisory boards? Will the law provide for penalties for the responsible persons of the Bank of Slovenia to be effective? I wonder if this will achieve that banks with state-owned assets that have been recapitalised will have to return this money back to the state budget in the event of a profit shown. Will we change the ability to detect anomalies in the granting of bad loans? Are we going to encourage banks to take action to revive lending to the economy? Will the law have a positive impact on the business of the economy? Are we saving something at this point? What better way to make these amendments? Will it be better for the economy, for our citizens, or for the banking supervision itself? I am almost convinced here that neither of these questions that I have asked can be answered or cannot be answered with firmness. I am also convinced that no such change or amendment is going in the direction of improvement, but only in some way of confusion. When we discussed this proposal or these amendments or the Banking Act at the meeting of the Committee on Finance, Dr Arhar stressed that we should not expect the problem to be successful, given that the law contains so many articles and so many amendments. We have more and more articles and worse results. I certainly very much agree with him here. The bottom line is that the situation is what it is, mainly due to the granting of friendly and unsecured loans. However, responsibility is certainly the one that should in any case be identified and, last but not least, sanctioned. It is well known who prepared the loan agreement. Is this contract well prepared? Is it ready to be violated? And it's clear who's signing the contract in the banks. The person who signs it should also stand for this contract to get the money back to the bank. I do not think it will help to have 408 articles or 134 amendments, unless rules are clearly laid down and individuals are responsible. The task of bankers is, of course, to borrow this money, is to get this money back to the bank, of course, with some profit. Here I have to say that it is essentially just a banking culture and the responsibility of everyone. When the contract is concluded, there is no going back. If the contract is not respected, another 408 articles, or 500, or whatever will be in vain. Indeed, the Treaty is an act between the parties and the problem of the banks is a violation of these treaties. That's why we're talking about bank recovery, bank bankruptcy and so on. We are also very different about this from other European countries, but not in a better way, unfortunately, in a worse sense. In the coalition contract of the Government of Mir Cerar, you are told that the socially responsible functioning of financial institutions, including DUTB and SDH, will be required to improve their corporate governance and to establish more effective supervision. Coalition partners will thus restore confidence in the institutions of supervisory functions and public authorities in the Financial Council. In order to ensure a return of confidence in financial institutions, supervisory institutions and the rule of law, the coalition will carry out an investigation and identify responsibility for the bank hole created: I repeat, the coalition will conduct an investigation and determine responsibility for the bank hole created. Yeah, it's in this coalition contract! Everything's nice and right, but I'm asking you, do you think that this change of law will help you regain the trust you so refer to, and will you support the investigative commission in banking? If I go back to the law, I believe that these changes should primarily reflect on the direction of effective management of, and privatisation of, poor claims for the benefit of taxpayers and effective management of banks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dušan Verbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u98	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Before I begin my debate, I would like to touch on some of the particulars that my predecessors have mentioned. The first is, certainly, not the case that out of 408 articles and so much each article is amended. The second point is that in my introductory presentation, I also mentioned the reasons for the number of amendments tabled, and it must be acknowledged that those amendments, which were somehow linked to stakeholders linked to individual content, were somewhat over 30, but it was true that the majority was due to nomotechnics and editorial errors. I'm sorry, but that's the way it is. If I go to my own content. The fact is that this law is passed at a time when the business or political environment is somehow very specific to banking and I have three key areas to highlight here. First of all, recapitalisation of state-owned banks. This is a case that has been dragging for many years, and the fact is, as it has already been pointed out today, that taxpayers have already cost around €5 billion. Clearly, until now, the recapitalisation was in line with individual political parties and related stakeholders. This is because the owner, in this case the State, has all the leverage in his hands to end the situation in one way or another, in particular this practice of spending tax money. Second, the establishment of the Bank Claims Management Company, to which bad claims, clearly recapitalised banks are and are still being transferred, are still transferred. It is known as a bad bank and if I link it to the Court of Auditors' 2013 communication, I fear that it may also become a bad bank by its content. Even in this case, I cannot help but overthink that the Bank Claims Management Company can also be the product of policy and, as has already been said, of its associated interest groups, how to achieve the cheap ownership shares of companies. I hope I'm wrong. The last area is Banka Slovenije. I find it difficult to understand the role of a bank regulator with many levers to identify, prevent, sanction all those managers in business banks who did not adhere to the principle of a good master. We know for banks that this is the principle of a good expert. It is true that the Bank of Slovenia itself has recently had a debate in this house. All three reasons still have a bearing on the banking environment. I would like to touch on other matters, namely the role of the Republic of Slovenia or the executive branch of the Authority in the development and management of banks. As we know, it goes through the legal framework and, above all, through supervisory authorities, primarily state-owned banks. The point is that we should ensure a stable financial environment and also trust in the financial system. Especially the specialty. Particular attention should be paid to monitoring the operations of state-owned banks which have received extensive State aid. Until the exit of the Republic of Slovenia from the ownership of these banks, these banks should be actively managed, and here I would point out those key objectives which stem from this. Ensure that the banking sector performs its national financial intermediation function in a long-term, sustainable manner. Secondly, increase the efficiency of bank operations. Privatising banks is the third area and, fourthly, providing a system framework for the functioning of banks that will support financial stability and protect taxpayers' assets in the future. If I keep going. All of the above circumstances in some way still have a bearing on the adoption of the ZBan-2 draft Banking Act. I conclude this introductory part with several words, and I repeat today that without trust in the institution, no law, even so good, makes it possible to function well, in this case the banking system, unless in the first place the most responsible in the banking management processes, then the responsible owners and, as a third, the key factor, the banking regulator. If I touch it a little bit, as far as the law is concerned. It defines and regulates the mode and operating conditions of 23, according to the new credit institutions, meaning banks and savings banks. In doing so, this law does not separate the capital from both state and private, it is only the capital of banks and savings banks, of course, operating in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. I must admit that I am very pleased to learn that the carriers of this law or the drafting of the bill have also previously been associated with an interest association, this is the Association of Banks of Slovenia, and have received most of the things, and then logically the amendment was also. I think that's very positive, because I think that in some ways the banking profession has unified. As mentioned earlier, the bad side of this law, as well as my colleagues before me, is that there are too many amendments that have been made. If I touch on the reason for this law, I would also mention that it is necessary to mention that the financial crisis that has been in the past years has revealed the weaknesses mainly in the functioning of banks in the area of liquidity risk and also capital, which was later shown to be of insufficient quality. Therefore, it was logical that a reform of the banking regime was needed and also the directives and regulations followed. However, the main purpose of these amendments, which are in some way transposed by this Directive, is in fact linked to each area, as regards the conditions for the establishment of a credit institution, business, termination, authorisation, enforcement procedures and all that is necessary for a good bank law to regulate and conditions all market entities involved in this matter. I would like to mention another matter, a very important and valuable category is the compliance of banks, which is detailed in the law itself. Establishing this permanent and effective compliance function primarily for risk management and what is very important and obviously has not been followed in recent years is a compliance policy. Therefore, the same law rightly expects credit institutions to be responsible and in line with the principle of a good expert — what I have already mentioned in the introduction — to operate and I am confident that such an approach will build confidence, greater than that of today, in the banking sector. However, the Bank of Slovenia’s regulator is expected to exercise all the powers and responsibilities and in good time and to take decisive action against managers in credit institutions so that the period 2008-2013 does not recur. I am convinced that Banka Slovenije has to work towards operating the banking system at the level expected by Slovenian savers, users of banking services and, last but not least, the European Central Bank. I would like to touch what we have before us — individual amendments. As far as the amendment to Article 4 is concerned, I think that particular attention is needed not only because of the interest association, the Association of Banks of Slovenia, but also because it is perfectly logical to carry out this activity of education and that it is spreading not only for so-called banking officials, but also for all those who are bound in any way to such an operation. This is simply said to be the training of exchangers to carry out their business with real responsibility. There's another thing. When we met a while ago with problems, if you recall, so-called Swiss francs. The fact is, at the level of the banking interest association, there is a so-called settlement council, a Senate, whatever the case, a mediation body, which is certainly intended for all banking sector users to deal in a peaceful or out-of-court manner with any problems or challenges that arise in bond relations. What has been exposed and I think a little more needs to be said, but it is related to the so-called amendments of the 53rd, 54th, tabled by the parliamentary groups. We're talking about licensing. For amendments to these articles, we believe that the proposal of the ZBan-2 law already allows a sufficient banking regulator in its existing content, and this is the Bank of Slovenia to exercise effective control over members of the supervisory boards, is said to be over this part of bank management, and if such arrangements are to occur in the savings banks, whether it is a single or two-track bank management system. I would also touch, including Article 57, as Article 57 of the law provides the Bank of Slovenia with an opportunity to make a substantive examination of the fulfilment of the conditions of each candidate. Here I also have to refer directly to Article 273 of the bill to which the Bank of Slovenia allows individuals to prohibit the management of the function of a member of the Supervisory Board. For all of this, I believe that the relationship between the corporate rights of the owner or owners and the so-called public interest is sufficiently represented by the regulator of banking. A few words more about licensing members of the Supervisory Board. First of all, the question is why limit the owners of banks to their own choice of people they trust most and would like to put them on the position of a member of the Supervisory Board. I am convinced that we must not interfere with the entrepreneurial freedom of the owner of the credit institution. In particular, who, in their view, is the most suitable person who is professional enough and competent enough to take over this management function. Disagreement with the proposed amendments, which want to introduce licensing, mainly relates to their ignorance that we have 23 credit institutions in the Slovenian banking area, is said to be the majority of banks and private-ownership stores. This proposal for a law governs the rules and conditions of operation for all these legal persons in the Slovenian space. Because of the poor experience with state-owned banks, and these are 5, and if added in the process of forcible liquidation, we cannot impose legislation solely for these 5 banks in Slovenian ownership, which are known to have the country to withdraw from them by 2019. Furthermore, in a recent debate on trust and the work of a bank regulator, the Bank of Slovenia, many critical words were made by opposition members and also the candidates of this amendment for the operation of that regulator. Now that the talk of licensing is a member of the Governing Council, there is clearly full confidence. I don't understand. Isn't this a slightly too transparent game of political party or MP? As regards the licensing of members of the bank management, which took place all the years from 2007 to 2013, I am in the position that it did not take place in individual cases, as was the case with the Act on Banking-1. In addition, if I also refer to action against state-owned bank management institutions. Just to stage and justify my thinking. Some basic indicators for the Slovenian banking system in the period 2006-2013. Three important events took place in a row: the first in 2006, the introduction of international accounting standards; the 2007 takeover of the euro; and the significant collapse of Lehman Brothers Bank in 2008 – we know the consequences. Only two categories would be touched here, i.e. credit growth as a percentage in 2006. It represented 28% of the increase in lending. In 2007, this jumped to 41%, 2008 19% and then a rapid decline, which occurred in 2013-21%. I must give this immediately parallel to another category, the share of bad loans in the Republic of Slovenia. In 2006, this was 2.8 in 2008 2.9. Then we witnessed a jump-up: in 2010 8%, in 2012 14% and in 2013 29.7%, there is a 30% share of bad loans. If I come back. Where were the regulators here, in particular, with regard to the provision we are now discussing licensing? My assessment is that, for this period, the bank regulator is not or has not intervened sufficiently with regard to the legal competence in these processes in order to perhaps prevent such a large bank hole. Let me get this straight. The true owner – the emphasis is on the right and responsible – is deeply aware of the importance of the function of a member of the Supervisory Board, that this is not a political appointment, but the appointment of persons who will provide the capital owner with the basic mission of managing the bank, and this is making a profit. I've got a lot of questions coming up here. Why should political demagogies be left to ensure that the licensing of members of the Supervisory Board ensures that corporate governance is managed in its own right? We all know that this is not the case and that such regulation would only make it impossible, as has already been said, for the owner to decide freely on the appointment of the most credible persons. It is therefore not appropriate to support the amendment, since the shareholder in the role of the owner of the bank has a primary interest in persons who are trustworthy. In the process, however, the Bank regulator has the opportunity to learn what knowledge, skills, experience an individual and what is most important, as already mentioned in Article 273 of this bill, so that under the conditions set out, activities can be initiated to terminate membership in the Supervisory Board. Here I do not think there is any need to add anything, except to conclude that in this case the interests of bank owners and not the interests of political parties, which I believe still want to have an impact on the management of state-owned banks as long as possible. So much for licensing the members of the Supervisory Board and for the time being, I'd be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Representatives and representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! Certainly, at the beginning of the consideration of this law, it is necessary to say how it actually happened that we are dealing with this law today. In fact, the government has already adopted this law, I think in mid-December of the previous year. In view of the many comments made by the Legislative and Legal Services, given that these comments were crucial to the legal text alone, it has for a long time been actually hesitant in the National Assembly, or such material, but I will now say whether or not I will consider it at all. Here it only shows that the individual articles were in fact completely inconsistent, that the government divided this law or directives among individuals, groups of people who, of course, prepared something for each other, and then did not co-ordinate it, and finally it came to the National Assembly. According to the 408 articles 138 amendments were then made. On 408 articles 138 of the amendment! I wouldn't say here what it really means, certainly that's not the reason for any ridicule of government representatives. From this point of view, we need to know that one very important matter, when we talk about banking, is what we are talking about on the basis of articles that, in my opinion, are not well studied by the proposer too, in order for the Directives to work – I now apologize for using two foreigners – especially how to not copy. This, in other words, means that it was copied without any understanding. Here goes the criticism of the government of Mira Cerar. To date, the legal provisions of this Act have not been brought to a close and, therefore, the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service is quite negative, but it points out, above all, that there is a vague, opaque, indeterminate regulation of this subject, that the Banking Act No. 1, today we are talking about Banking Act No. 2. Some exceptions to system regulation, including other laws, have been introduced, which means that this law relies on or refers to other laws, which, of course, means that the lack of transparency is even greater. The fog and swamps would say so, and, of course, those who can function in fog and swamp will be more successful than those who do not have more problems here, and this means that this law may even be written on the skin of those who would do business in this way or in their own way interpret individual provisions. In some ways, government policy is also going in the direction of underestimating the National Assembly and Members and Members. In fact, you can tell me that all governments have done this. Yes, I can agree with that, or I agree with that, but once it has to be stopped. Just as all governments have accepted the final accounts of the budget and have referred to the same cases for decades and the National Assembly has always adopted the final accounts of the budget with the same irregularities as the Court of Auditors has pointed out. This has been the case, but this practice has to be stopped, otherwise we will actually get into a situation where those who can fish in fog and swamps are the best fishermen; and this is one of these laws. So much for this marriage. The next question raised here is substantively, namely, to regulate banks and banking, in which we spent about a year ago, about EUR 5 billion on taxpayers. 5 billion euros because these banks had bad claims. In other words, poor claims mean that on the one hand they have accepted deposits from citizens, on the basis of these deposits they have earmarked part of the deposits for credits, for loans they have requested guarantees that were not actually guarantees to seize those guarantees or have lost those guarantees at a price. That's why the then Finance Minister, Governor Jazbec, came and said the deposits were under threat. Since deposits are at risk, now give taxpayers another 5 billion. Whose deposits? Deposits of these taxpayers, which means that, in other words, if we simplify them a little bit, not much, these taxpayers have once again paid their own deposits, of course through taxes, budgets and so on. Here is the whole tragedy of this story and these bank holes, which we can say to the financial crisis, to the economic global crisis and so on, and then came from the government of that time, a direction or whatever, an idea that was then adopted, that these bad claims, bad loans to the Company for the Management of Bank Claims, which was organised or set up, because the banks had done nothing about it 4 or 5 years ago. Here we just have to say that they did nothing or did not do enough, and Slovenia is one of the last countries to have ever gone into this crisis and waited too long and therefore the price was higher and, after all, everyone was able to adapt, including those who gave bad credits. But that's all that's known and said. What's a little bit more recent is that bad claims were transferred or those bad loans were transferred to DUTB at the book value of then 4 billion 865 million, that was then the real value of a billion 561 million, and the decline rate was 67.9%, even that's old data. A little more recent information, however, is that banks still have 4 billion and 174 million bad claims, they still have so many and so many bad loans. Of these, Nova Ljubljanska Banka as a group of 2 billion 883 million, at book value. If we reduce this to real value, this was done by the Ministry of Finance, not me, it came to 812 million, the New Maribor Credit Bank still has 831 million so-called bad claims at book value or 387 million at real value, so-called real value, and other state-owned banks still have 460 million at book value, 195 million at so-called real value. Together, these banks still hold 4 billion 174 million bad claims. But we've already given her $5 billion, and 4.6 billion at book value has already been transferred. Of course, there is a question, distinguished representatives of the government, until when. How much longer do you need here? How much longer do taxpayers have to pay? The question arises why, at that time on December 2013, Banka Slovenije, in agreement with a special committee established at the Ministry of Finance, in which members of the Ministry of Finance, Banka Slovenije, Ministry of Economy, transferred only 4 billion 600, not all of the bad claims or 90% of the bad claims. Why about half these bad claims? Why not the others? This was not tolerated by DUTB, this was not evaluated by DUTB, this was done by Banka Slovenije and this was done by that commission of the Ministry of Finance, and all of this was confirmed by the then government of the Republic of Slovenia. They also evaluated the Bank of Slovenia and the Ministry of Finance. The others didn't, the others just got what they got. With this law that we now have here, of course, I wonder when these articles of the law will mean that taxpayers will be asked again, or they will be ordered to recapitalise banks because that is not enough. What policy does the current banks have, when we talk about the NKBM and the New Ljubljana Bank, still have a capital equivalent of 16% or 19%, which makes them uncompetitive compared to other banks, while they are still being sold, this lack of competition is even smaller, and what policy is still being pursued under this law. When I talked about these billions, I talked about the data of the Ministry of Finance; official data, which is also made public. Now the question of what is going on here and what is going on with all these beautiful words about better governance, better governance, more control and so on and so forth. Nothing! Those who say that today, here, ladies and gentlemen, are empty words. Banks go their way no matter what the National Assembly here accepts, and no matter what meetings we meet here on the responsibility of the Bank of Slovenia and so on. They're going their way. Because the National Assembly is neither allowed nor allowed to obtain information from the Bank of Slovenia that is essential for its operation. Because it's all about bank secrecy. This is also, of course, one of these amendments, which I personally believe you will not support and is a great shame, only after this government or any other government comes back after the taxpayer's money, then it must also be remembered what was actually going on. If we are talking about this today, or if some people think it is a duality, when we demand the responsibility of the Bank of Slovenia on the one hand, and on the other hand we support the amendment where the Bank of Slovenia is supposed to give its consent to the Supervisory Board or to the license – it is not a matter of duality. On the one hand, the responsibility of Banka Slovenije officials is required, and on the other hand Banka Slovenije is seen as a system institution that must take care of the stability of the banking system and so on. Once it is seen as an institution, and once it is viewed according to the actions, according to the responsibilities that have actually been here. It is not a matter of duality in all this matter, but it is simply that if the Bank of Slovenia – and this has also been said on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy by representatives of the Bank of Slovenia – does not give consent, does not give licences, it may happen that one bank will lose its supervisors. This was said by the Bank of Slovenia. I am more concerned about the fact that some Members, I must say so, are more pleased with the ideas given by the State Association of Bankers, but not by the State Association of Supervisors, but by the State Association of Directors, members of administrations. They may be professional, but they are still a state association and still as directors, as members of the boards, looking at their interests and not the interests of supervision. You have to be sure of that. I'm only giving it to you because there was no control here. Even if we are talking about how credits have grown since 2004 or, if you want, 2006 forward or 2008, how they have fallen, of course. We can talk more or less about the fact that from Banka Slovenije, since then governors, from vice-governors who are now one and the same, we have received information: the banking system is stable, the savings are safe. Of course, they are safe when taxpayers pay their same taxes again! And this is a tragedy or a tragedy; for some it is a tragedy of this system and also of this legislation that we adopt. Today, unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, in the midst of all this confusion, the legal confusion, to which the Law-Legal Service also points, I am afraid that I do not know exactly if we have actually examined all these articles, what they actually mean. But I'm sure of something. They mean that the government can come anytime and say, "Give us more money for the banks." Why is that? What are these banks still doing? They say they are not lending to the economy, we say they are sitting on a pile of money that they can't even turn because today it has no value in Europe and it's either relatively low or it's not there or it's negative. Nor can it be a policy that says to give more credit. I don't agree with that either. But we are encouraging something now, and in fact we do not know what would happen, because I am also sure that the same controls of the saints and the same administrations will not change anything in the field of governance and governance and so on and so forth. Nothing will change, ladies and gentlemen. The status quo will go on, with this law or any other law. I think the responsibility of the National Assembly for this legislation is very great and because it is large, it is also completely natural if you want to get data from the Bank of Slovenia. This amendment, however, has always been – for several years now, simply a negative response. In whose name? In the name of people who pay for themselves, roles themselves, twice, three times? Ladies and gentlemen, this is not fair! It is not fair to citizens and citizens. If you support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party to actually be able to deliver this information to the National Assembly, then we will also consider in the SDS making a different decision on this law than simply rejecting it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr. Luka Moon has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u102	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the United Left, we have three reasons why we cannot support this law. The first is, as it is said, that we are concerned about the consequences of the banking union on jobs and the development of European economies. The second reason why we cannot support it is because it preserves the prohibition of co-decision of employees employed in banks. The third reason why we cannot support it is to tighten the penalties and control of the Bank of Slovenia and the European Central Bank over the operations of banks, which is positive, but on the other hand unacceptable, because these central banks themselves are without democratic control and, as I said last time, they are granted some status as the Roman Catholic Church. The Bank of Slovenia, although essentially a state institution, is becoming a semi-territorial unit, which is a living god in this country cannot be touched. If I move on to the first point, what does this law impose on the banking union? It is at the heart of the idea of this law that further crises in the banking sector should be prevented by the capital buffers it maintains. This idea, therefore, that the crisis of the capitalist economy can be prevented by such measures, is false and naive. It is wrong because there is no market economy without cycles and it cannot be, but naive because the most dangerous elements of the global financial system remain intact even after the crisis. The size of the banking sector in Europe and in the West is even greater than before the outbreak of the crisis, so-called shadow banking has increased since no speculative financial instrument in the European Union has been banned since the outbreak of the crisis. Investment banking, which should be separate from commercial banking, as it was arranged after a major depression in the thirties, is still fused into one another, as it was before the biggest bank crisis, so called too big to fail, is still too big to fail. Just like they were in 2008. In 2013, the total balance sheet total of all European banks was EUR 44 000 billion. The European Rescue Fund, which we are now setting up with directives we are establishing with directives that we are also introducing into Slovenian legislation, will amount to €55 billion. So on the one hand, we have a banking system in Europe that weighs 44 billion euros, on the other hand we have a resolution mechanism that weighs 55 billion euros. You can create your own image that such a rescue mechanism is dripping into the sea for a huge banking system that is supposed to solve if there is a new financial crisis. On paper these ideas are good, but in practice, as we can see, they are dripping into the sea and will not achieve the desired result. Next. The law requires higher capital adequacy of banks due to new capital buffers. On this point, I reiterate that banks in the periphery will therefore not be able to follow the banks in the centre to ensure this adequacy. Therefore, the most likely result of the introduction of the Banking Union is that the monopoly of banks from Western Europe, in particular German, French and British banks, will be further strengthened. All of this will go to the expense of economic development, as capital, which is both eastern and southern throughout the European periphery, will become even more concentrated in the banking systems of the European Centre. In this way, unless capital flows to the peripheral European countries, by 2020 we will by no means be able to achieve the objectives of Europe 2020, it is said, to raise employment and reduce poverty. If we look at the current statistics and wishes, we'll see the next picture. Eurostat's goal is 75% of employment throughout the southern periphery, saying 75% of the population should be active. The remaining 25%, according to the schooling of children, pensioners and unemployed, is expected to be 25%. If we look at the real picture on the periphery now, we will see that it is precisely because of the lack of capital and investment of the working population that is 60%, that is not 75%, as it is supposed to be, 40% and not 25% of the work is inactive, despite the fact that from the countries of the European South every year it goes to hundreds of thousands of young people who in these countries simply cannot find jobs and can't manage a suitable life, as we have experienced for the last five years unfortunately in Slovenia. At the same time, it should be noted that in Slovenia we have already exaggerated with capital adequacy in one way or another. NLB and NKBM currently show 20 % or more of the capital adequacy, which is once more than anticipated. Nevertheless, they still do not lend to the economy. All of this first-class capital, which the country has invested in the banking sector with rescue billion rescue packages to save it from the collapse, is now in banks' balance sheets, while the economy cannot reach credits, and small and medium-sized enterprises are in debt abroad. Where the largest two system banks in Slovenia show 20 per cent or more of the capital adequacy. If I move to another point, which is why we cannot support this law, that is to increase the powers of the Bank of Slovenia while still leaving it completely out of reach of any democratic control, I would say the following. Banka Slovenije’s powers to control the functioning of the banking system, in particular in the sense of sanctioning banks that do not comply with its instructions, are increased by amendments to the Banking Act. The operation of the credit rating system to the Bank of Slovenia is also transferred. I would like to remind my colleagues here that this is the second time in this short term, when they increase the powers of the Bank of Slovenia, but at the same time they have not adopted any law that would subject the Bank of Slovenia to the objectives of this company, to this economy and which would allow for effective social control over it. Here again, I stress that the Bank of Slovenia and the entire European banking system by establishing a banking union receive a status such as that enjoyed by the Roman Catholic Church, called the x-territorial unit. At the same time, it is necessary to recall all the scandals we have witnessed in the Bank of Slovenia in recent years, and at the same time, one feels that less than confidence in the Bank of Slovenia, the government would like to give it more power, but is not prepared to accept or introduce any guardian. Finally, I must stop at that shameful 33rd article that prohibits the participation of employees in the management of the supervisory board and the management of the bank. Here we proposed an amendment to the Joint Left and the SD to remove it, but it was not accepted by the committee. This saddens us because we all know that the banking system controls management and capital elites that not only work beyond the control of citizens, but also beyond the will of most employees in these banks. The difference between us is that the ruling parties and the right-wing opposition do not seem to disturb this monopoly of management and capital elites. There's talk of octopuses, octopuses, and I don't know who else, but we wouldn't do anything to actually cut them off from the trough. The participation of workers in the resolution is not a solution to all problems, we are aware of that. However, it would be a small but important step towards eliminating this harmful monopoly of management and capital elite in Slovenian banks. Of course, bank administrations and supervisors do not want employees to breathe as a collar and look under their fingertips, but here I would remind you that even the President of the Association of Banks, Dr France Arhar, is on the committee, despite the fact that the Association of Banks has advocated the prohibition of appointing employees in the supervisory councils over the past years, has changed this opinion. Apparently, the Association of Banks has learned something in this crisis, and the government and ruling parties and the right opposition, who are still opposed, are obviously not. Here it is ironic that on the government's website we read, however, that promoting the development of social entrepreneurship, society and economic democracy is one of the five priorities of the government. One of the five priorities of the government is economic democracy. If so, then the ruling party shall act by prohibiting employees from participating in supervisory committees and bank administrations against their own declared objectives. It was in this law that you had the opportunity to support the amendments of the United Left and the Social Democrats, which remove this prohibition and give bank employees the same rights as workers in other companies. But this commitment to economic democracy is obviously only on the surface, only at the level of phrase. My colleague Verbič said very nicely at the last board meeting where the dog taco prays when he said, "The owners of the banks are those who somehow with the system of management and management set up all the levers and mechanisms that this flow of co-management can also be established." Of course it doesn't. Just the opposite. The country should be the one who must guarantee workers the right to co-decision and not the owner. It is precisely the antagonism between work and capital that makes it necessary for the State to encroach on the exclusive right of the owner to manage the company and to enable the employees and the wider communities, which depend in particular on the operations of the system banks, to participate in the management and decision-making process. Furthermore, Mr Verbic said this, quote: "If I return to this story of our state property in Slovenian banks now, let us not forget that the objectives of this social property or state property are very clearly outlined, what will happen in the coming years, and the deadlines are also set for when the country with its property or 100%, or in some part, to withdraw. And for this reason, I think it is inappropriate for any owner, domestic or foreign to be restricted by such a provision in the law now." End of quote. It would be hard to be more honest. SMC is obviously a ban on co-decision between bank employees because it does not want to restrict private owners, especially those who will buy banks according to your plans at liquidation prices; those banks that swallowed 3.6 billion taxpayers' money last year and before last year. We are now selling these banks at liquidation prices, and we will not accept the possibility of working together, so that the new private owners do not have problems with employees when they cut costs, forgive and cut even in banks. An example of this is, say, the NKBM that we read about in today's Work. Over the past two years, the country has invested more than a billion euros in this bank. Today we read that, look out, the American trust fund of the speculative capital of Apollo buys it for 200 million euros. Thus, we gave this private owner 800 million state subsidies, while disposing of 100,000 small shareholders and bondholders. And now we do not accept co-management of workers in the management of this company, so that some speculative fund that he probably buys can be used to exhaust and sell it further, he can deal with this bank according to his conscience, as is fully allowed by the property right that he will receive for five times the amount of money he receives. Given how much you are trying to please Brussels, the financial markets and foreign investors with this privatisation, I am surprised that you did not prefer to be renamed the International Capital Party to the Modern Centre. I would like to make it very clear, as I have already said on the Committee, that employees in banks, in countries with very similar banking systems as Slovenia, in the Czech Republic and Austria have the right to a third of the members of the Supervisory Board and to a member of the Board and there is no valid reason why Slovenian banking officials could not have the same rights. The government has been here superficially and with a great extent of seduction, referring to the fact that this ban has been in our legal order for a long time, but the facts are quite different. There was no ban on banking in the First Banking Act. The Government's proposal for a new Bank Act, which was tabled in the National Assembly in 1998, also did not contain this prohibition, but limited the participation of workers to not one third, as stipulated by the Law on the Cooperation of Workers in Management, but to one fifth in the Supervisory Committee. In 2006, however, an amendment was enforced which effectively imposed a ban on the participation of employees in the management of banks. It wasn't until 2006. So we're talking about an eight-year-old story, not that this thing's been in the Banking Act ever since. Furthermore, in our view, such a prohibition is unconstitutional because it is contrary to Article 14 of the Constitution, i.e. by the principle of equality, if labour co-ordination applies to all companies, it must also apply to the banking sector, but would not go here in detail, because in the United Left we do not need an explanation of the Constitutional Court in order to defend this fundamental right of workers to co-decision. In all these discussions, the Government and the Bank of Slovenia have offered only one argument against this: the reason for the different regulation of co-management rights of workers in banks is in the specific tasks of the supervisory board of banks. In doing so, the additional competence to give consent to the establishment of the bank's business policy should be that there may be a conflict of interest between the member, a member of the supervisory board who would now, on the one hand, be the bank's business policy maker and at the same time a member of the bank implementing the policy. I'm sorry, but that doesn't make any sense. What should employees decide if not the policy of the bank? Opposing the interests between work and capital, once again, is no reason for codecision to be prohibited, but is precisely why we need it: because work and capital are often in conflict of interest. Therefore, employees must have a say in how the company's policy, including the banks, is being driven. As I said at the outset, in Austria, the Czech Republic has virtually the same banking legislation, and the powers of the supervisory boards are the same. But there's no one throwing workers out of the control world. Let's take a look at Slovenia. For example, the NLB Supervisory Board, the President is the director of the legal advisory firm RMG d. o. o. Another member of the board of directors is employed in British Petroleum, which was later renamed BOP after the oil disaster in the Gulf of Mexico that triggered the ecological disaster. Then there is another member of the Board of Insurance Triglav and a member of the administration of Gorenje. In short, don't let the operation of the bank be decided by employees' representatives, but it's not a problem if the directors of private companies and foreign multinationals, who are probably also customers of the same bank at the same time. That's the kind of policy we're obviously going to. If we are already looking abroad, let us also see when there are good practices abroad, and the regulation of banking in comparable Austria and the Czech Republic is definitely a practice that we could imitate in Slovenia. There is no valid reason that this amendment has been rejected and that the Government does not want to accept it. The government, which says that one of its five key objectives is the key values of co-management of workers in business management. I beg you kindly, but this is unacceptable and incomprehensible! Why are you doing this? Since I still have some time, I would like to touch on the short amendments of NSI and ZaAB to Articles 53, 54 and 55. With these amendments, it is proposed that the Bank of Slovenia issue special licences to members of the Supervisory Board, similar to those issued as members of the administrations. I agree with the Mag for a change here. I believe that licensing members of the supervisory boards would not improve the supervision of banks or prevent a derogation from normal banking. In fact, the fate of Slovenian banks in those critical years of overheating between 2004 and 2008, when it became the basis for all these bad claims, which we have now resolved with billions of taxpayers' money in recent years. In fact, it was not there, it was not the personal fault of supervisors and members of administrations, but overheating was due to Slovenia's entry into the euro area. It was caused by the difference between the interest rate in Slovenia and the interest rate in interbank markets. This was so large, the real interest rate in Slovenia was so much higher than in interbank markets that it was easy for everyone to pay the debt and that the capital simply had to run here. This is the curse of the monetary union when we have different developed countries in it. At the time of overheating, money is overpriced in such unions, and at the time of crisis it is too expensive. And unfortunately, no licenses for this problem could be solved, but if Banka Slovenije in those years, the criteria of capital adequacy were tightened by 2004 by 2008, and if the then SDS coalition did not implement pro-cyclical policies, such as lowering capital taxes and the richest ones, such as financing the construction of highways with debt in years when the economy was already overheated, or early repayment of debt to domestic banks in years when the capital was already too much. At a time when construction grew by 15% per year, all reasonable economists warned that it could not end differently than disaster and credit grew by 30%. Reasonable policies can save us in such times, but unfortunately they cannot save us licenses and refer to the personal integrity of the members of the administration. When a problem is a systemic phenomenon, unfortunately, we need to solve it systemicly. So much for a start, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u103	Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. The word has magic. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u104	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Mr President, given that we are also discussing the amendment, I hope that you will not interrupt me if I have a broader debate, given that all the predecessors had a topic. Dear colleagues, colleagues, representatives of the Ministry of Finance, distinguished secretary of state! What is most disturbing to me in this law, that somehow both by the coalition and the secretary of state, we have been able to hear that this law is intended to ensure, in particular, better corporate governance and better business of banks and that this is mainly about transposition of European directives, transposition of directives of the European Parliament. I'm not sure about that. But why? Because neither the previous government nor the current government has yet set clear goals for state-owned banks. The law itself, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected by the Government of Mir Cerar, will not produce better business results unless the owner sets clear objectives. The majority of five banks are owned by the state and therefore the government and the Ministry of Finance are now responsible. We do not have a strategy for the management of state property, which should be written in June 2014, nor do we have a proposal for members of the SDH Supervisory Board to be sent to the National Assembly in July 2014, because the Government of Mir Cerar and the previous government could not agree on the recruitment. If you can't agree on the recruitment, I think we should at least set clear targets for what is expected of these banks. And as a taxpayer, I first want to know if there is any hope that the Slovenian taxpayers will ever get these 5 billion back. And these goals, of course, should have been set by the government of Alenka Bratušek when €5 billion was invested in the resolution of the banking system, December 2013. They don't have a single purpose for this bank today. And how, then, should we measure successfully whether the banks are operating successfully or not? Not a single target, at least not in public. And I am sure that the Bank of Slovenia itself is responsible here, that it has not made any commitment, even though they are regulators, but in some ways their involvement in this resolution of the banking system was quite active. With regard to the amendments themselves and the very structure of this law, I think there has been a lot said. Personally, I am disappointed that one law with 408 articles can come to the National Assembly, to which more than 100 members must then be amended because they are poorly prepared. And here I would really like to ask the Secretary of State to explain where this ZBan-2 banking law was prepared. Was he prepared at the Ministry of Finance or was he prepared at the Bank of Slovenia or was there any outside co-workers involved here or did the outside co-workers receive any payment for this or did they not receive any payments? For there has been no law so ill prepared, so unsearchable, for a long time in the congregation of the State. Probably, given that the Slovenian Democratic Party has proposed at least two amendments to the Banking Act and the Bank of Slovenia Act in the previous term, we can conclude that only the SDS party is aware of the problem we have. For in the previous term, the coalition of the government of Alenka Bratušek has always vehemently rejected all our proposals. And the current Mira Cerar coalition has once again rejected the Slovenian Democratic Party's amendment on its parent finance and monetary policy, which advocates only some transparency and that taxpayers may in some way know what these 5 billion have been earmarked for. However, on the Committee on Finance, this amendment was rejected by a large majority, this amendment. Maybe we'll talk more after it's on the agenda. But I would only tell my colleague Mesco, his habit is to say something and then drive out, troubles the rehabilitation of the NKBM. We've invested almost one billion, now we're going to sell it for 200 million. I think we should ask for the responsibility of making almost one billion and today we will only get 200 million for the bank. And that means that that money that was invested was given into some hole, a very deep hole. And I see the problem here, not now that we're going to sell it for 200 million euros, but mainly why it took 800 million, or almost one billion, and who is responsible for getting on the other hand only 200 million euros. And I personally believe that the only tool to prevent Slovenian banks from being rehabilitated for the third time at the expense of taxpayers is, of course, their privatisation and the withdrawal of the country from the economy. Because I am sure that if the policy in 2001 followed the privatisation policy and proposal, Slovenian taxpayers in 2013 with EUR 5 billion would not have to recover the banking system and would have earmarked these 5 billion for public education, public health or anything else. In addition to the statements made by Luka Mesec, the United Left, the issue of the participation of employees with the bank’s management authorities, both in the administration and in the supervisory board, was highlighted. Personally, I don't have a negative view of it, it wouldn't bother me if we were. But it's interesting that there is a banking union. The banking union exists and I have looked, interestingly, because the banking union could also help here to try to convince us, Members, or, above all, the regulator of Banka Slovenije in order to make this introduction meaningful. And I now went to the website of the Banking Union of Slovenia and it is interesting, what is 5 main, I would say, addresses on their official website: Compass offer for members of the syndicate bank, first minute holiday, winter banking games, the march of banks of Slovenia, annual sports games of banking. This is the cover, now that it would be in the interest of the employees, I think that the impact page should also be on the banking union's website, given that today's discussion of the Banking Bill is being discussed, so that this matter is put in. And probably the banking union itself rather deals with other things than deal with corporate banking management. Today I also miss the representatives of the Bank of Slovenia, the regulator, why they are not. However, media information is probably more likely to deal with the rescue of the Petan Empire and the DZS. And this is extremely worrying and with this policy, and with this continuation I am skeptical that we will improve the operation of the Slovenian banking system, which is state-owned, and I think that the result of the banks is in the original sense the government's responsibility.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u105	The word is from Dr. Franz the Crusader.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u106	Dear High Council! I too will be a little wider in this amendment, which is kind of a habit for the first amendment to be said a little wider when it comes to this mode of discussion. What is important in this law and is certainly to be welcomed are capital buffers, reducing the impact of credit rating agencies on decisions to allocate credits to full relativisation, as well as draconian penalties, which, of course, require appropriate caution from members of the boards and supervisory boards. These penalties have arisen or have come into law very clearly because now the common European regulator wants to simplify controls and prevent them from being transferred from different sides and thereby reduce the risk of penalties. The problem of the Slovenian credit system in the background, purely at the bottom, why it is actually going, is the different manual that banks have in deposits or loans, if they are leased on the interbank market, this manual is short, these loans fall very quickly, most of the deposits are tied to very short periods of time, and a much longer shelf life that is realistic when banks are lending money, especially in the economy, to various projects, as well as to the population for housing loans. And as soon as we get into this relationship, we can show a whole range of claims as bad claims. Whatever, whatever. Mr Pogačnik, the replica, I'm sorry that Mr Shirtzl is not there, because he said there were 4 billion more, another 10 billion could be bad claims. When you say so, and now all of a sudden, that company won't be able to return it. Today, the Statistical Office has published – so you can look into the computer – business in 2014. And processing activities have 50% capital-backed assets, and if you look at long-term assets, 80%. So they're a little exposed in the short term. 50% of the credit or 50% of the credit you have in your own resources is normal for the central European economy. It's our tradition, it's our development, it's made in German, it's created by trust in the stock market, and it's caused by fear of capital flight. Now we've organized ourselves some kind of escape capital. This crisis, of course, was on the rise and further exacerbated as the volume of credit increased. As early as 2004, we had a ratio between deposits and loans 1:1, and this is very safe and very conservative. From 2004 to 2008, these loans were highly inflated for various reasons, and a special project was also under way to withdraw the country from the economy, which encouraged management to rent loans for completely irrational purchases of internal shares. The whole number of companies that are now ahead of the sale have been insinuated precisely because of this type of lending. However, payments for these loans could only be made on profit. And when the profits were gone, clearly, is the company or that project, that was not the company, those were some funds or just a person, it got into trouble, and that was a big problem. During this period there was a shift, I think that if we only look at net debt banks, in 2004, foreign banks were owed 2 billion more abroad than they borrowed and in 2008 8 billion more. That was the move. Now they're back, you know, but now they're almost a billion creditors. There has been a major shift, a major outflow from Slovenia, precisely because these loans were given to our banks in the interbank market in the short term. The State compensated this by partially recapitalising the banks, but to a large extent it went in with deposits, large enough that by July, exactly, by July 2010, Mr Verbic talked about the decline, the growth was declining, but the volume of credits was growing until July 2010, the economy, I am talking about loans to the economy. In July 2010, after the successful recapitalisation of the Ljubljana Bank, Banka Slovenije adopted a strict regulation that the Germans did not hope to accept as their banks, they said that only in 2019 will it be possible to increase capital adequacy. And that's when the loans started to go down faster, faster at foreign banks than at home, but also at home. And so they created additional bad loans. Why? Once you've got some credit waiting for you to pay it back in ten years, then you're told to return it now, you become a bad lender. And this economy, which then had 21 billion euros in loans and I think it's already 25 billion euros in exports, in 2010, or 23 billion, I'm thinking right now. Today, when banks have reduced loans, there are only poor 12 billion euro loans and 28 billion euro exports and 37 billion euro of gross domestic product and 70 billion euro of turnover. How does that have to be a bad loan? Let me tell you this. That's impossible. This law, of course, improves governance and, on the other hand, does not give us what we actually need, it is a review of the relationship created by the 2013 bank recovery in order to prevent the outflow of funds that have been given for this purpose. That's how we're going to have one big public debt, and we're going to sell the banks cheap, clearly, they're going to say, and there's still a possibility, and I don't know what's possible, and then they're going to take it for free. This should be prevented, this law does not prevent or provide a basis for preventing this. Of course, the basic problem is human resources in this case. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u107	The word has magic. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u108	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. I am sorry that my colleague Mesca is not here, but despite his absence, I will allow myself to give a few words or an answer regarding the debate on the working body, the subject of Staff Management. I would also like to remind this High Council, as I mentioned in the mandate body, that in relation to the co-management of bank employees, this was already the subject of the 2003 Constitutional Court. I think that, Mr Moon and the others, we are aware of this matter. The Constitutional Court has stated what banking co-management means. I'm talking about the current banking law, ZBan-1. That's another thing. I am pleased when a colleague of the opposition parliamentary group mentioned the union and the operation of the union in the banking system. In my view, the interest of bank administrations, regardless of ownership, is great that it is good cooperation with employees. And if I touch the union here, something has already been said, but it is true that for all banks except for the New Ljubljana Bank there is a syndicate of banks. The new Ljubljana Bank has its own association. And if we look not so far back, there has been complete public information that bank employees, even as regards state-owned banks, have been paid very well before the last period. What's very important is that they had not so small a regression and they also had 13th a salary compared to others when I'm talking about economic operators. I would have concluded as far as co-ordination and what was published in the media a few days ago in the Dnevnik newspaper. I'm reading. The title is: Employees in state companies in anticipation of higher regression. "Thousands of employees in the energy sector, supported by NLB, NKBM, Celje Bank and other firms are looking forward to the news whether they will receive pre-crisis regressions already this year, exceeding EUR 500, and in some cases even EUR 2 000. The question is entirely on the table whether today, when taxpayers invest millions in state banks, in particular NLB, NKBM, Abanko, is it in place?" That's how much in response to my fellow moon. Initially, it has also been pointed out that this proposal for a law, what it entails or why the lawmaker suffered so much and that I will not speak, even a few pixie words were for content. I would just like to recall one directive, namely Directive 2013/36 of the European Union, the fact that this Directive should be implemented in the Slovenian legal order by 31. 12. 2013 It's interesting what this directive says. Very briefly. It contains new provisions on sanctions, effective management and prevention of over-reliance on external ratings. Those who know as much about the banking sector know very well what that means. I will not say what other directives have been necessary, and even now, it is still necessary to implement them. But I'd like to re-emphasize something. What is the main purpose of amending this bill? First of all, the transposition of European Union legislation, which has been amended mainly due to the recent financial crisis and its response. The fact is that this bill provides, inter alia, for the conditions for the establishment, operation, termination of credit institutions, powers and procedures for the exercise of control over the operations of credit institutions and for the powers and procedures for the management of systemic risk in respect of credit institutions. What is important and obvious in the banking system so far has somehow not worked within expectations is the area of risk management, which is not limited only to credit, market, liquidity and operational, but also includes what is expected, namely the risk of concentration of reputation, compliance, strategic risk. So this bill covers a whole range of foreseeable risks that banks still have to pay close attention to. Just another sentence and I will also repeat, which was mentioned in the introduction, that the law itself practically does not mean any quality and that everything will be fine. I would like to point out that, as I mentioned in the introduction, no law, even so good, makes it possible to function well if it is not followed in the first place and if we are in the banking system, in the banking management processes that represent management or management together with the supervisory board, together with the responsible owners and, last but not least, the banking regulator. And that's it. I have not yet touched Article 126, which has been amended by the opposition SDS Group. I must admit, I have a little dilemma about this amendment. Those who have looked at this amendment write as follows: "If the bank has received State aid or is subject to measures under the Act on the measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks, and if the data provided for in Article 214 of this Act need to be provided by the National Assembly, by the working body of the National Assembly or by the Commission of Inquiry of the National Assembly." Here I have a dilemma regarding article 214 because I think and ask if this is a lapsus or a mistake, because article 214 is bound by the Banking Act-1, and today we are talking about the Banking Act Bill-2. In this respect, I assume that the representatives of the executive branch will certainly be able to [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u109	Mr. Uroš Prikl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u110	Mr President, thank you so much for your words. Colleagues and colleagues! It is very interesting that the Banking Act is adopted at the very moment, on the days when the newspaper headlines are full, how the New Credit Bank is sold and that the realisation is just before the present. I sincerely hope that this is not the case and that before the sale of the second largest bank in this country will be realized, it will honestly consider what is good for the taxpayers of this country in particular and that it will not be subject to the strong not to say the brutal lobbying processes that are present. Now for the Banking Act. As I have already said in my presentation of the position of the Desus Group that, of course, I see a step forward in this law, I see some added value. The bill itself refers to the transposition of certain directives and regulations of the European Union, but also to some qualitative movements. It is a matter of regulating or establishing a stable internal governance that includes a clear organisational structure, more efficient risk management processes, including recovery plans, appropriate internal control mechanisms and appropriate remuneration policies and practices. Furthermore, there are some additional higher penalties, fines that the bank can pass on to violators. This is a credit risk assessment where banks should not rely exclusively and automatically on external and credit ratings, but should also take into account other information and use external credit ratings as one of several factors in the decision-making process. It is introduced – it seems to me that this is essential – a protective capital buffer, a countercyclical capital moisturizer, a systemic risk moisturizer, a global systemically important bank buffer and a buffer for another systemically important bank. Finally, these are measures that will enable us to establish financial stability, especially investor protection, the international competitiveness of the European Union banking sector and so on and so on. I think these are the main reasons that lead me to support this law, and the majority position in the Desus Group is the same. However, I still have to focus here very briefly, not as detailed as my fellow moon spoke, but still my concern, or in some way my grief, that we have failed with the proposal to allow the co-management of the employees in the banks. It seems to me that the social bloc here was too weak and the liberal bloc was stronger. I do not see any valid argument why the employees here could not co-operate. What may this conflict of interest be if one of the five, seven, nine members of the Supervisory Board is an employee representative? Finally, let us look at other institutions and look at the institution, for example, a primary school, where there is also a representative of employees in the company's world, and there are other public institutions, I don't know what forms I don't list here, but there are representatives of employees in it, and there is no conflict of interest going on in the matter of course. Little, as it is said, saddens me, I see that this is not the key moment in which we should, of course, tighten the issue to this extent so that the law, which in the vast majority of other cases is good, is correct, and I believe that it will represent financial stability, and above all ensure the protection of the investor. Perhaps just extra caution in the management, storage and any other processing of personal data. The experience here is always very great everywhere and always, I think that in the provisions of the draft regulation, however, such assurances have been made, such guarantees that abuses will not occur. There is also no specific reference to the information officer who was proactively involved in the adoption of the law itself. If we take this into account consistently and eliminate those potential temptations as well as the sense itself, the very purpose, the positive purpose of this law, of course, is good, and the objectives that are also foreseen by this law will be achieved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u111	Anyone else would like to discuss Article 4 and the amendments of the SMC, Desus and SD groups, or generally, because this is also a tradition? Please sign up. Mrs. Marinka Levicar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A nice greeting to everyone on my behalf! Given that I appear to be the last person in this debate today, I can say that I agree with most of the debaters who have criticised this law if it is not perfect. I also have a number of critical thoughts about the law itself. Above all, I do not like the fact that the law does not allow the licensing of members of the Supervisory Boards to disregard the amendments proposed by the United Left and the Social Democrats in Article 33 concerning the representation of workers in the supervisory authorities of the Bank. I am truly sorry that our group, our representatives of Desus in the Committee on Finance, have supported these two amendments and that they have not been adopted, so we are not discussing them today. Then I do not like the law because it already has as many amendments as 138, it shows that it was not already well prepared and that even now that many of these amendments have been rejected, it cannot be what it would have wanted to be in these times, when we all estimate that the operation of banks was wrong, that there should be more control in these banks that are in state ownership. This is where I would have the opportunity to be able to influence the business better in order to improve transparency and so forth, through this increased supervision, which should also be carried out by bank employees, as well as by licensed representatives in the supervisory boards of banks. In addition, there are many comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service of this Government, and many have not been taken into account, and I am therefore not impressed by this law. However, I support the amendment tabled by the SDS party. I think he's useful, and I'm sorry if he's not voted today. I mainly intend to vote in favour of this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u113	Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We're moving on to the next amendments. Since the amendment of the Alliance's Group to Article 53 is substantively linked to the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 54 and the amendment of the Alliance's Group to Article 58, we will discuss all three amendments together. I therefore put to the debate paragraphs 53, 54 and 58 and the two amendments of the Ambassadors of the Alliance Group and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u114	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Let me begin by saying that I was somewhat shaken by the debate by my very dear colleague Dusan Verbič, who also spoke about licensing members of the supervisory board, that this was political demagogism. It kind of touched me very much, and I strongly reject that. If you want, I can tell you for two hours what we've studied and what we're arguing is that we're actually returning the government text that you hit back on the board, so you hit your own government. A few European guidelines, directives, materials that are huge on the Internet, just need to be Googled and taken one shot of time and met some people. By the way, this amendment is also supported by the Bank of Slovenia. You call Governor Jazbec, I can give you the phone right away. I will not ask the government if it supports the amendment to Article 54 of New Slovenia, because it is logical to support it if it has written this text itself in the basic proposal of the law. We are making this amendment precisely to eliminate the impact of policy as far as possible. Of course, the government is in charge if the government is a congregation and it is logical and political, for the government is an eminent political body. But at least some filter is a license not to be any government, not Mira Cerar, whatever, we all know how to do it, does not say, aha three from SMC, one from Desus, one from SD and the matter is covered. We're always trying to be the best experts, but at the same time we say, yeah, the opposition doesn't have any experts. Well? And we think, very logically, if Banka Slovenije has to give consent to a member of the administration of a bank, i.e. a license, then the one who oversees it must probably have at least so much knowledge, can't be someone from a road that is just close to this or one of the coalition parties. So our amendment is sincere, well-meaning. Colleagues and colleagues, what doesn't work for us in the banking system and where else, say, in state-owned companies? It doesn't work in our control room. Look at how many bankers the Irish forced in the night when they found those fantastic bank holes. What about us? We're clapping them. And people are asking me when we're going to take those who took us away, and our people in Pomura can't live, and some people are taking possession of billions of our money. And nothing happens. Nothing happens. A representative of the Attorney General's Office says we're going to convict the first drills of the holes, maybe throw them in jail in 10, 15 years. I understand that: never. This is a mockery of the rule of law and a mockery of all those who are now unemployed and on social nurseries. So here's the thing that really touches me. If we're not capable of doing anything, then I don't know what else to say. Then you have to go home and do something else. Now the proposed issue of permits, first of all this. [[…]] We also give a new name, the new title of Article 54. This shall be referred to as a Member of the Bank’s Supervisory Board in the supplementary proposal for a law. We say that Article 54 Appointment of a member of the Bank's Supervisory Board. And this Article 54 implies Article 54 of the amended bill. So I also want to clarify these matters. Now, one brief explanation. It'll be very short. The proposed issue of licences to members of the supervisory board of banks has the basis for the legal order of the European Union – are we still members or are we no longer members? – which puts the functioning of administrations and supervisory boards and corporate governance in banks at an ever-increasing pace. Why are we already making a banking union? Why? For more control. And especially so that the taxpayers do not pay the bank holes again, they patch the bank holes with donations, because we are not shareholders! With donations. When you give it to Karitas, at least someone says thank you and says hello to you on the road, and when you put it in the bank, they look at you badly. And I'll tell you one more case in the end, you'll see what's going on. There's only one case because I don't have time. The European legal order, for example, lists only Directive 2013/36/EU requires the supervisory institutions to pay particular attention in verifying the statutory characteristics of the members of the management board and the supervisory board of the banks for the purpose of assessing whether an individual candidate is appropriate or not to perform the function. While the members of the board must already be authorised to perform their duties, it is also reasonable to introduce an authorisation to manage the function of a member of the Supervisory Board who supervises the member of the Board. We believe that the process of verifying the suitability of a member of the Supervisory Board and, consequently, the decision to authorise is an important condition for improving the quality of bank management and further ensuring that applicants for members of the Supervisory Board comply consistently with the requirements of the European acquis – not the Balkan, European acquis – to carry out the relevant pre-election procedures. From this point of view, the authorisation of a member of the Supervisory Board is merely an additional confirmation that the requested procedures in the bank have been properly carried out and that the applicant is suitable for the performance of the function. In this case, the authorisation of a member of the Supervisory Board will certainly be merely a formality. If the candidate for a member of the Supervisory Board fails to meet the eligibility criteria, we believe it is correct that such a candidate does not obtain a licence to manage the function of the members of the Supervisory Board, in particular with a view to protecting the interests of the bank. That's what this is about. We also point out that in the event of a subsequent finding that a member of the Supervisory Board does not meet the eligibility criteria, the Bank of Slovenia should prohibit the performance of the functions of an already appointed member of the Supervisory Board. How we came to read, among other things, the guidelines issued by the European Banking Authority, the European Banking Authority, the Guidelines on the assessment of the suitability of members of management or control bodies and key function holders, 22 November 2012. Short stuff, very useful, very nice reading, well-structured. Maybe I'll just read one piece. Chapter 3 discusses the evaluation carried out by the supervisory authorities. Request for authorisation or information — Competent authorities shall establish a procedure for the submission of a licence application or notification for the purpose of appointing and re-designating members of management or control bodies. Rules should be laid down when to submit an application for authorisation or to send a notification in accordance with such a procedure and so on and so on, of course I do not intend to read all these guidelines. But it's an extremely useful reading, so you always find it in my drawer. I would also like to recall the opinion of the European Central Bank of 9 September 2011, when the then Ministry of Finance asked the European Central Bank for an opinion on the amendment of the Banking Act, in particular with regard to the Supervisory Councils. Among other things, the ECB welcomes the provisions of the bill introducing the authorisation to act as a member of the supervisory board of the bank. Thus, the ECB did not invent New Slovenia, the ECB. Next, I would like to remind you of the decision issued by the Council of the Bank of Slovenia on the prudential nature of the members of the Board of Governors and Supervisory Board of Banks and Custodians. This, of course, summarises the above-mentioned guidelines of the European Banking Agency on the assessment of the suitability of the members of the management or control bodies and the holders of key functions. I recommend that you read Article 18 of this Decision. Very useful reading, you also always find it in my drawer. Dear colleagues and colleagues, especially coalitions, I strongly recommend that we really consider whether someone who rules as a congregation, as a member of the National Bank in Slovenia or someone appointed by the Assembly as a member of the Supervisory Council, or whether this should know something about banking, let's say about these 408 articles of the Banking Act or it could be someone from the road, just because it will be ours if we give any credit to anyone. Because that's how things have worked so far. It's my fault, too, because I've been a Member for eight years. But I do not want to work this way, but I have never been a member of the board or a member of the supervisory board of the Bank of Slovenia, but I was on the investigative committee in the previous term, which sought the culprits for the bank hole, led by my colleague Marko Pogačnik. However, of course, all the doors we knocked on were locked, but in the name of bank secrecy we did not get exactly any information. Even more, arrogant performances of people who represent the so-called eminence of the Slovenian banking system. Of course, I respect, I have great respect for Mr Frances Arhar, but when it comes to housing, so to speak, to the state association of banks, after the licensing of members of the supervisory board, we must not listen to the housing association of banks. Why not? I'll prove it on the case. Earlier, Luka Moon, who says something and then runs away, of course, as he always couldn't get past the 2004-2008 mandate, when he had a fantastic increase in gross external debt and said it was the fault of the then government, or the finance minister, who had too low taxes. It is true that we dropped our taxes at the time, but how much less did it run into the state budget. How much did we actually save taxpayers money for, given that gross external debt had grown to EUR 40 billion at the time? So these comparisons can really be done by those who really have no idea what they are saying. We asked Mr Gaspari, the then Governor of Banka Slovenije, in the previous investigative commission, why didn't you step on the brake so that the commercial bank wouldn't go into such a credit expansion? He talked about thinking about the formation of so-called dynamic reservations, but in fact it was in some way impossible for the European Commission and PricewaterhouseCoopers to review the house. By the time Banka Slovenije talked about forming dynamic reservations, the bankers had, of course, jumped. Why? Because they said yes, and now we won't be able to do any more bank balance sheets with reservations. We know how the creation of the dynamic reserve fund works, which is, of course, filled in during the accelerated credit growth period and is drawn from it during the period of slow credit growth. Therefore, the creation of a dynamic reserve fund depends on the credit operations of each bank. As I have already announced in the position of the Group of Members, the adoption of our amendment to Article 54 is a condition to support this law, with which we have really great difficulties, we have talked about it and I agree with many, including the coalition, which says it is imprudent, that it is enormous and, as such, practically also non-operable. If, when we left the government in 2008, we did not see to it that, as far as possible, we would pay off the country's debts, the crisis would be significantly stronger and more brutally cut into our lives. Believe me. At that time, how much did we have? Debt was 22% of gross domestic product at the time. In absolute numbers, this was €8 billion. Just imagine, if we were then, say, 16 billion euros or 20 billion euros and we added to this debt all those debts that governments had raised, which then came for our government. And about privatisation. It is true that simply many political groups here in the National Assembly cannot simply switch over and agree that private property is significantly more effective than state property. I know that many times I am actually a runner, but again I list 8 countries, this is an interesting octet, a list of 8 countries with the largest ownership stake in banks: Costa Rica, Sri Lanka, Ethiopia, India, Iraq, Syria, Cuba and Slovenia. We can say that this is our Slovenian principle. Okay. We can say that this is our Slovenian folklore. Okay. We can say that this is our democratic socialism. Okay. But the citizens don't have any of this or have less and less in their wallets. Always less in my wallet. Believe me. And, of course, we are also concerned that the bad claims on recent official data are still in our state banks 4 thousand 174 million. Four thousand million still bad claims! What can happen to that? Recapitalisation. God forbid! And when we, Members of New Slovenia, on the ground, meet with economists and ask how they are being serviced by Slovenian banks, say that this chapter has long been completed, and that they are no longer engaged in it to go abroad for money. Well, thank God that we are in the European Union, with domestic banks, it is simply not possible to get money. Of course, statistics also show that, in fact, our state banks now service virtually less the Slovenian economy after recapitalisation than before the recapitalisation. And at the end of the day, there's another whimper, which isn't a whimper, but it really hurts. In the 1970s, we built our own cultural home in our village because we were far from Belgrade and Ljubljana, all alone. Then we gave that cultural home for free to one Slovenian company because unemployment was extremely poor. And of course, then the privatisation came in between, and so on, thank God there are about 70 people working in this plant today. This is an Italian company that manufactures high-priced leather products, women's purses of €4,000,500. It's in our village. And this Italian investor wanted because the entire facility and parcel owned by NLB Leasinga, I stress, NLB Leasinga, and this Italian investor wanted to buy this property and, of course, to rebuild it as it was suitable for the production of a plant that works for world brands. He faced the incredible arrogance of people in NLB Leasing – I will say this knowingly – who first set him the price of a million 200 000, then 800 000. The Italian investor was willing to give half a million. GURS value, by the way, 236 thousand. Because of his arrogance, he packed up and left. And nothing to anyone. Nobody gets hurt. For us, however, every job is precious. A registered unemployment rate of 21 % has been breached by the mumurje. And that is why today we are proposing an amendment to Article 54, so that we have qualified supervisors, who are still materially responsible for their work today, but I do not know how many supervisors in Slovenia have already responded in a material sense. Therefore, I suggest you support our amendment to Article 54. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u115	Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. More? Okay. Then I'm asking you to sign up. The word has magic. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u116	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear fellows! Personally, in these amendments, I'm purely, so frankly, a little skeptical. To support this, not to support or appoint members of the supervisory boards of banks, and I will also try to argue why I am skeptical here. I am not 100% sure that this licensing, as proposed here by the Bank of Slovenia, would ensure a more successful business of the banks themselves. I am of the personal opinion that the owners must be able to do so and that this must be ensured by the law itself. Above all, the fact is that we do not have only state banks or Slovenian banks in Slovenia and that we also have foreign banks, if we look at the composition of the supervisory boards of these foreign banks, we see that this is mostly about people with rich experience, people who are probably not under 55 years old. It will probably seem strange that he will then come to Slovenia and that he will have to come to the Bank of Slovenia, which I have said several times that I do not have, I would say, the greatest confidence and that I am also convinced that he should bear considerable responsibility for the situation and the rehabilitation of the banking system in Slovenia. Who would do this licensing is a question for me. Some ideas were also that this Association would be members of the supervisory councils. Perhaps someone will soon find out that there is a market niche here, where he will be able to serve richly. However, I should be convinced by someone mainly in the sense that this would have some additional value for bank management. Now, if it could still make sense before 2013, when we had some mixed ownership in the so-called state banks, when someone could have argued that, I don't know, a minority shareholder demanded that this member have it in the supervisory board, and then that didn't come. See, today all state-owned banks are 100 % state-owned, 100 % maintained. This means that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Finance can convene a universal assembly every day, call off the entire supervisory board, appoint a whole new supervisory board and not least call off the administration. And I think you're going to have to take responsibility here for the government and for the Ministry of Finance or for the Slovenian state holding company. At 53rd and 54th, however, I absolutely assess that this article is essentially poorly written — what are the conditions for the members of the Supervisory Board. That is, I would say very one such flat-rate provision, which has knowledge, skills and experience in controlling and monitoring, managing banks and companies of comparable size and activities such as a bank or other comparable transactions. Here, however, it might be reasonable to consider writing in the law itself, I would say, a little more acute conditions for appointing members for members of the Supervisory Board of the Bank of Slovenia. Last but not least, members of the Supervisory Boards are also personally responsible under the Company Act with personal property and, above all, who will exercise licensing, in what way this licensing will be carried out. Here I have a personal, I'd say, kind of concerns. Banka Slovenije knows that it can also call off somehow, withdraw the license for members of the bank's administration. We know it's never happened in current history. And this work of the Bank of Slovenia, for example, was not understandable to me. I'll try to give you a plastic case. A member of the board who had a licence and then wanted to go to another bank when he went to another bank and Banka Slovenije did not issue him a licence. That's the same thing: they let you drive a red car, they don't let you drive a blue car. If they didn't give him the license then why didn't they take it back or call it off as a member of the board? So a lot of these things are. Some licensing, here I think it might go, too, I'd say, for some personal partial interests. Someone at Banka Slovenije will like someone, someone will not, and Banka Slovenije will not, for any reason or other, grant him a license. Last but not least, the Association of Banks of Slovenia has a number of concerns, especially the fact that foreign banks, that then these people should do some licensing before the Bank of Slovenia, perhaps if they say here that this is a license before the European Central Bank, maybe someone could convince me a little bit more. However, I think that there is a type of tool in here on the basis of which I would say that this matter is deleted and, above all, that this licensing or by the association of members of the supervisory councils or any other institution or institution of the Bank of Slovenia, I am of the opinion that there will be no added value here. So I personally will not oppose this amendment, but I will not support it, I will squeeze the quorum for the reasons I have just said.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u117	Does anyone else want to discuss this point? No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am now putting Article 126 into the debate and the amendment of the SDS Group, together with the editorial correction relating to the second reference, to Article. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. The word has magic. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u118	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I would like to start by thanking my colleague Verbic for finding the error that has unfortunately occurred to us in the amendment, but it is not a substantive error or a substantive correction, but it is only an article. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have repeatedly stressed that Slovenia is the only one of the transition countries that, for the second time, has saved the banking system at the expense of taxpayers, the last rehabilitation has cost us more than EUR 5 billion to Slovenian taxpayers. The question of whether this will be the last sum we are talking about is not ruled out that this recovery will be even higher than it can be seen at a given time. We have also reviewed several times, that where tax money is included, that information should be a little more transparent, namely that those matters involving taxpayers' money, or which are subject to measures to the resolution of the banking system, should not be covered by banking secrecy, of course not generally, in order for everyone to be able to view, but primarily for the purposes of the National Assembly, for the purposes of the National Finance and Monetary Policy, the Commission for the supervision of public finances and, of course, in the case of a parliamentary inquiry into banking. I think that all those who are interested in reaching the bottom of who is responsible for this bank hole, which has created such an amendment that we have tabled in the Slovenian Democratic Party, will also be supported. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have never said that the size of a bank hole is the product of crime of five billion. But it's hard for someone to convince us that these 5 billion are just a result of the economic crisis, and that's not it. And we are convinced that responsibility must be taken, that responsibility must be taken for both governance and bank management. I think there are a number of reasons why this amendment should be supported. Unfortunately, on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, the coalition of this proposal has not supported, which means that the government of Mir Cerar continues the practice of the government of Alenka Bratušek, who has vehemently rejected these proposals. I would say very positive to me that one of Desus' members merely announced support for this amendment. I think, if not today, sooner or later, this proposal of this amendment, or that the confidentiality of the data, where tax money is included, will also be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u119	Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 324 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided today in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, it's an evocative proposal for a law amending the laws on forests by emergency procedure. With regard to this point, two draft laws have been tabled in the legislative procedure, namely the proposal for a law amending the Law on Forest Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Forests (AGF), the law being dealt with by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank and the proposal for a law amending the Law on Forests (AGG), following an urgent procedure by which the proposer is the Government. The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food decided, in its debate on those proposals, to deal with them in accordance with the third paragraph of Article 117 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. At the same time, he decided that the follow-up procedure in accordance with Article 127 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly would be guided by a proposal for a law submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following an urgent procedure. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 117 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I give the floor to the applicants of both proposals for supplementary explanations. I give the floor first to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Mr Mih Marenčet.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u120	Mr President, thank you so much for your words. Dear Members and Members, all together a very nice greeting on behalf of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food! In October 2010, the European Union adopted a new timber regulation setting out the obligations of economic operators placing wood and wood products on the market. The Regulation entered into force on 3 March 2013. The aim of the regulation is to combat trade in illegal timber and timber products. To this end, it lays down three main obligations. Firstly, it prohibits the placing on the market of illegal timber and timber products on the European Union market. Secondly, operators placing timber and wood products on the market of the European Union for the first time require the establishment of a so-called system of necessary care. Thirdly, the trader who buys wood or wood products that were first placed on the market of the European Union is obliged to store information on suppliers and buyers. A key element of the system of care is that operators putting timber on the market of the European Union for the first time must carry out a risk management procedure to prevent the placing on the market of illegally obtained timber or timber products on the European Union market. Therefore, on 15 July 2013, the National Assembly adopted the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Forests. The basic objective of the amendment was to ensure the implementation of the wood regulation in Slovenia. It has been stipulated which instruments must include the necessary care in our legal order in order to assist owners in establishing the system as required by the Regulation of the European Union. Moreover, the introduction of so-called carriers was further justified by the fight against the grey economy in the implementation of works in forests and transport. With a view to further reducing the administrative burden of the system, complementing the Forest Act of 7. 3. 2014 set out certain exemptions for the use of the carrier. For the purpose of effective implementation of the rehabilitation of the natural environment, the agglomerations affecting the Slovenian forests in early 2014 also provided for the same amendment to the Forest Act to postpone the application of the provisions concerning carriers for up to 30 years. 4. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. With the proposed amendment to the Forest Act, which you, honourable Members and Members, will decide today, we propose to extend the suspension of the application of the provisions concerning the carrier to 31. 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The main reason is the intensive rehabilitation of forests that have been damaged at the time of the already mentioned agglomeration. The additional reason is also very clear that there will also be major problems in this year’s area of acorns, which are not rare in the event of such extraordinary events in the forests. On this occasion, I would also like to point out that the rehabilitation of damaged forests is going very well, since over 60% of Iglav or close to 40% of the ranges in common have already been repaired. On this point, we believe that most of the damaged forests will be saved in three years, which is a very good result compared to similar events from abroad. In the current amendment to the Forest Act, we are still correcting the terms in view of the change in the organisation of the customs authorities involved in the supervision of the European Union, namely the Wood Regulation, since, under the Financial Administration Act, all the rights and obligations of the customs administration of the Republic of Slovenia and the powers of its services have been transferred to the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. In addition, in order to effectively prevent acts on the European Union market in timber products made of illegally cut wood, the competent authorities are given a legal basis to impose measures on infringements to remedy identified irregularities and deficiencies within a specified period of time. Several times the Regulation of the European Union also provides that the Commission shall prepare up to 3. 12. 2015 Report on its implementation in the Member States. The fact is, in the last few weeks, the Commission has proposed pilots, i.e. pre-complaint procedures for as many as 8 Member States, on the implementation of the European Timber Regulation. According to the Commission, these countries have not adequately demonstrated the implementation of the European Union and the European Union Regulation on [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] supervision by the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. [[…]] On the basis of this report, the competent RS Ministry will propose any changes or additions to the whole system in the law itself or propose the creation of a separate law, as some other Member States do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u121	I also give the floor to the representative of the proposaler of the bill, Mr Zvonk Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u122	Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Act amending and supplementing the Law on Forests, Official Gazette of the Republic of Slovenia No. As a result of the natural accident, this is the case with the aubergines, from the beginning of 2014, it established a transitional period during which, in the transport of forest wood varieties, carriers are not required to carry out remedial work as quickly as possible, but only a document can be kept on the use and transport of forest wood varieties. The transitional period shall expire at the end of April 2015. Since only 35% of the planned agglomeration was performed in 2014, it is essential to ensure that the effects of the agglomerations can be addressed as quickly as possible in the future and thus prevent the spread of diseases and pests of the forest tree. Until now, logging has been carried out in more accessible forests, and cuts will have to be made in less accessible, especially in private forests. Therefore, according to the SDS, an extension of the transitional period should be ensured for at least 2 years. Immediately after the introduction of our law, the government has tabled its proposal to amend the law and to supplement the law, which extends the transitional period by just one year. That our proposal is better, the Commission for Agriculture, Forestry and Food of the State Council has been defined and the representative of the Slovenian Farmers' Unions has even advocated an extension of the period without carriers for an indefinite period of time. Since EU Regulation No 1 is amended as follows: 995/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council in Article 20 provides that Member States must report on the application of the Regulation in previous years by 30 April 2015 and then the European Commission will decide on any amendments to the Regulation, and will take an interesting view of the European Commission regarding the application of the Regulation in Slovenia. In the opinion of the Slovenian Democratic Party, the present Charter will fully satisfy the requirements of the Regulation on traceability of wood assortments. Therefore, Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party also supported the Committee's proposal for amendments to Article 3 of the bill extending the transitional period of the Government's proposal, which was up to 30. 4. 2016, and reduces the transitional period of the SDS proposal, which was 30. 4. 2017, on 31 December 2016, proposed by the Coalition's parliamentary groups. In fact, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we believe that by 31 December 2016, there will be no time to find, on the basis of the European Commission's assessment, that a carrier in such a form as is now in the current law is not required and represents only additional bureaucratic and administrative obstacles that can only be invented by ignorant government officials. We are pleased, however, that by introducing our law, we have accelerated the introduction of the Government's law in order to resolve this issue in a timely manner, because with 30 April 2015 chaos would arise and operators would pay large penalties, as carriers would enter into force on the basis of provisions issued by general decisions for a particular area, not for each parcel. That is why we are happy and will also support this change of law with the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u123	The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Vice-President, Mr Simon Zajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u124	Thank you for your word, Your Honor! As the Chairman has already said, the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food is at its 10th emergency meeting. 3. 2015 considered two draft laws dealing with the same social relationship as the parent labour force. For both of them, it is a matter of extending the period without the necessary carriers, transporting forest wood varieties by extending the deadline to 30 following a government proposal for a law. 4. 2016, while the proposal by the Group of Members and Members is to extend the deadline to 30. 4. 2017. In accordance with Rule 127 of the Rules of Procedure, in addition to the decisions already put forward by the President, the Committee also adopted a decision to exclude any of the articles contained in the proposal for a law on the basis of which a proposal for a law would be prepared. As material, the members of the Committee received an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service, which has no comments on the text of the proposed amendments. However, I would like to point out that the Legislative and Legal Service does not have information on whether the regime in question may constitute a derogation from the traceability system governed by EU Regulation No. 995/2010. The Committee has also received the opinion of the Commission of the National Council for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which supports both proposals by favouring the adoption of the draft law. In the course of the discussion, the Director of the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber of Slovenia presented the views on the draft law, which supports the extension of the deadline without the necessary carriers, but at least until the end of 2016, and the representative of the Union of Farmers of Slovenia, which supports the extension of the period without carriers, while the Trade Union of Farmers advocates for an extension without a time limit. The representative of the bill's parliamentary proposal pointed out in the debate that the SDS Group was ready to support the government's proposal for a law, but provided that coalition parliamentary groups put forward a compromise proposal to extend the deadline beyond one year, as proposed by the government, but long enough for the consequences to be resolved as quickly as possible and with as few complications as possible. At the proposal of the coalition parliamentary groups and the SDS Group, the Committee adopted its amendment to Article 3 of the bill, which the Government did not oppose, extending the deadline without the necessary carriers up to 31. 12. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In the debate, the Committee also identified and adopted the amendment tabled by the SMC Group to Article 3, which summarises the comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service. In the light of the amendment adopted, the text of the completed proposal for a law incorporating the adopted amendment is prepared on the basis of Article 133, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. The amended bill is an integral part of the Committee's report. In conclusion, on the basis of Article 128(2) of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee also concluded that the proposal for a law amending the Law on the amendments and additions to the Law on Forests, the first hearing submitted by the Group of Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank, was not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u125	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the SD Group of Members, Dr. Franz the Crusader.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u126	Mr. President, the well-respected High Council! The SD Group will support the proposal for amendments to the Forest Act prepared by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food and has been tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The adoption of the bill will ensure more effective implementation of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council adopted in autumn 2010 and the Commission Implementing Regulation of July 2012 aimed at preventing illegal logging and related trade. In addition, this bill aims to close as quickly as possible the rehabilitation of forests damaged in the agglomeration between 30 January and 10 February last year. The new Forest Act, which was adopted at the beginning of 2014, adopted, inter alia, a transitional period which provided that transport of forest forest varieties did not require carriers, but could only be governed by a special instrument on the use and transport of those varieties. The purpose of such a solution was to prevent the spread of disease and the spread of forest tree pests as quickly as possible. Today, we know that the recovery of the agglomeration that has affected 51% of the area of Slovenian forests has not yet been completed and will continue in this year and most likely in the coming year. The biggest rehabilitation in this period will be the igures, so a large proportion of the sanitary cuts due to the underprivileged are realistically expected. Since forest rehabilitation activities will therefore continue, it is a key solution to this Act to extend the transitional period of validity of that instrument for the transport of forest forest varieties. This transitional period would expire on 30 April of this year following the current arrangements. However, the amended proposal for a law adopted by us on the home committee extends the validity of such an arrangement until the end of 2016. So far, transport of forest wood varieties will not require a carrier whose purpose is to implement a system or traceability principle required by European regulations. This means that we must have adequate proof of the origin of wood at any time of the transport process. Following the current regime, traceability is sought through the obligation of forest land owners as well as other land on which forest wood varieties have been obtained to maintain and maintain records of the use and transport of these forest varieties. In addition, specific monitoring is carried out in state forests through a specific electronic system. However, the main purpose and public interest is currently the greatest one to ensure the rehabilitation of our forests after the acorn and, in this case, to allow for greater deregulation and greater traceability of wood for this transitional period. Finally, it is worth mentioning that the draft law gives the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia additional power to impose measures on violators who place timber and timber products on the market with a legal error to remedy identified irregularities and shortcomings within a specified period. So far, this has not been settled in the marriage. As we say, the Social Democrats will support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u127	The word is given by the Group of the United Left for her by Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u128	Thank you for your word. When we received a proposal from the United Left Group to amend the Law on Forests, we first thought that Minister Židan would like to establish his forestry company by emergency procedure, so we took a breathed breath when we saw that it was only a minor change due to the removal of the consequences of the acorn. A joke on the side. It affected 51% of the areas of Slovenian forests. This requires many cuts for sanitary reasons to prevent the spread of pests. Fortunately, we can see that there has not been a foretold replication of the underlings. For this we must especially thank the weather, not so much for the measures taken by the Government and the forest managers. It should be noted that the risk of decommissioning of pests has not yet ceased and measures should therefore continue. The Slovenian Institute for Forests estimated that 9.3 million cubic metres of wood would have to be cut. In 2014, approximately 3.5 million cubic metres of sanitation were realized or 38 %. So there is still a lot of work to be done by forest managers and forest owners, especially because these 38% are mostly wood from more easily accessible beds. This means that bringing the remaining 62% will be much more difficult and, of course, needs to be done. The extension of the moratorium on the use of carriers may be an incentive. I say an incentive because we know that the main obstacles to recovery are elsewhere, at high costs, labour shortages and, above all, poor forest management. We are therefore pleased that the moratorium is being extended for a year and a half, and we would be even more pleased if it were extended only for a year, as originally proposed by the Government. The vehicle is not intended for itself, but is intended to prevent the sale of wood on black or even cutting in foreign forests. Therefore, we would not support the proposal of the Farmers' Union in order for the moratorium to be valid for an indefinite period of time. The wood market needs to be regulated, this is one of the conditions for economic management of forests, but of course we can talk about whether the carrier can be simplified. We like to talk a lot about the forest being our greatest treasure, but in practice we do not treat it that way. Therefore, I did not mention entirely by chance the idea of establishing a state forest company. The consequences of our acorns are so slow, mainly because we have many remote forest owners who do not know and can not manage these forests, so the forest is only a tax burden for them and for society a lost opportunity. It is therefore high time to introduce a public service that will benefit both small forest owners and the country. The essence of this service will have to be that a small forest owner can leave wood to the public service. The public service will manage the forest in a sustainable manner. Part of the revenue from the sold timber will cover the costs of the public service and part will go to the small owner. Small non-farmer owners would thus receive some income from their forests and, on the other hand, less neglected forests and abuses. We hope that in November 2016 we will have an effective public service in the field of forests and that the sanitary disposal of damaged wood will be completed at least in grave. I really do not want to see them taking renewed emergency measures again in November 2016.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u129	The New Slovenia Group of Christian Democrats has the floor for her, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u130	Thank you, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, representative of the government! Christian Democrats welcome the agreement reached by the two proponents of almost identical proposals of the Law on Forests. The Slovenian Democratic Party with the Forest Act, version F, and immediately for it by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia with the Forest Act, version G. In fact, both novels proposed an extension of the transitional period in which transport with forest forest ranges does not require a carrier, but sufficient documents of use and transport are required. The discussions reached an agreement between the two proposing parties to extend this transitional period until 31 December 2016. The extension of the transitional period is necessary according to the data of both applicants, since the rehabilitation work in the forests due to the removal of the consequences of the acorno February 2014 has not yet been completed. Moreover, according to the Institute for Forests, only 35 percent of the sanitation was to be performed so far. Further addressing the consequences as quickly as possible would prevent the development of pests and the spread of diseases that could cause major secondary damage. We have been opposed by Christian Democrats since the introduction. We stress that they are an unnecessary burden on forest owners. In particular, farmers would be subject to an additional bureaucratic procedure, which would make normal work more difficult for them. In part, the Minister quickly saw this when he proposed the removal of timber carriers transported by the owner from his own own forest for his own use up to a quantity of 6 cubic metres. We call on the Ministers to prepare, during this transitional period, everything necessary for the final termination of the carriers. The system without their use will be fully ready after two and a half years. Members of the New Slovenia – Christian Democrats – we will support the proposal of the novel.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u131	The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mr Simon Zajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u132	We will, of course, support the proposed changes in the SMC Group. First, under the Financial Administration Act, all the rights and obligations of the Customs Administration have come to the Financial Administration. In accordance with this amendment, the proposal for a law amending the Law on Forests correctly amends the statement of the competent authority in the law. In addition, in accordance with the provisions of EU Regulation No. 925/2010 gives the Financial Administration the power to impose measures on violators of the Regulation to remedy identified irregularities and deficiencies within a certain period of time, since it has not had that power under the current rules. However, we also support the extension of the suspension of the operation of carriers to 31. 12. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European We agreed with this date on both the members of the coalition and the opposition as well as the government. In this way, we do not impose an additional bureaucratic obligation on private forest owners at the time of the removal of the consequences of the acorns, which I hope will be eliminated by then, but which must still be kept by the record sheet. At the end of the year, the European Commission will also submit a report on the implementation of the Regulation and recommendations for its implementation. On the basis of this report, Slovenia will, if necessary, develop a new system of due diligence. Date 31. 12. 2016 is, in our opinion, also suitable for the preparation of these possible changes, so, as has already been said, we support these changes in our parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u133	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Bojan Podkoršek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u134	Chairman, thank you. Dear Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! Let me present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Forests. The main objective of amending the Law and supplementing the Law on Forests is to continue the unfinished rehabilitation of forests by the stomach, which affected Slovenia in 2014, without unnecessary administrative procedures, i.e. carriers. With this proposal, we are convinced that a large percentage of the wood still in the forests can be removed from the Slovenian forests, further enables the removal of damaged and damaged trees, thereby ensuring the transportability of forest roads, preventing the spread of diseases and pests of forest trees, and especially the isolation of trees that endanger the lives and property of people. Since the proposal for a law with a supplement brings a period without carriers by the end of 2016, we will support this law in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u135	The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Benedict Kopmajer is responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u136	Dear Mr. President, the Secretary of State! Allow me to present to you the position of the Desus Group on the proposal for a law amending the Law on Forests. For the second time in this mandate, we are dealing with the so-called hybrid law, which is the first in the field of agriculture. We had two proposals for amendments to the Law on Forests in our consideration. The first one was put before the government by a group of Members and the second one by the Government. The difference between them was not limited to the type of procedure, as the Government proposed that the proposal should be dealt with on an urgent basis and that the group of Members should be treated on a regular basis, the difference was also in the various solutions to the same problem, the extension of the period without carriers. The Group of Members proposed that the period should be extended by two years and the Government proposed that carriers as an additional instrument to ensure traceability of timber should not be allowed until the end of April 2016. The members of the committee reached a compromise between the coalition and the opposition, so we adopted an amendment which introduced a provision in the amendment that the carriers would not be needed until 31 December 2016. As the Minister informed us at the meeting itself, about 60% of the damaged eggs and about 30% of the leaves have been cured in our forests since then. Illustive forests that have not yet been repaired are threatened by an epidemic of Lubadadar if the forests do not quickly clean up. The minister also informed us that 6.3 million cubic pounds of wood were cut last year, which he said was a record cut, which he would like to repeat this year. Members and Members of the Desus Group will support the bill, but we would like to point out that, despite the fact that wood cuttings in state forests are still mandatory for transporters and marker plates on logs, according to warnings from the people of Kočevsko, Gorenjska still happens to be the site of the state timber. They warn that trucks drive wood from state forests at night at unusual times, and there is no control, which the carriers seem to know well. I therefore appeal here to the competent ministry and the competent services to ensure, however, the control of illegal logging and disposing of state timber, as this means not only financial damage to the state but also permanent destruction of Slovenian forests.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u137	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, I conclude with a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will take place in 40 minutes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. I also adjourn the sixth session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 6 p.m. and 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u138	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the National Assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 8th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft law on banking under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 3. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We decide on the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD to Article 4. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 1. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Group to Article 53. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 54 and the amendment of the Alliance's Group to Article 58 shall become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, with a vote of 3 to 60. [[The vote was 3.]] [[Against 60.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. As the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the Alliance to Article 53 has not been adopted, the amendments of the New Slovenia Group to Article 54 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the Alliance to Article 58 have become irrelevant. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 126. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u139	Mr President, thank you for the floor. In view of the fact that in Slovenia, for the second time, at the expense of taxpayers, we have also tabled an amendment to the Banking Act in the Slovenian Democratic Party, namely, that, in the case of fiscal money, taxpayers' money to withdraw the degree of confidentiality, it withdraws for the purposes of the National Assembly, for the purposes of the Finance and Monetary Policy Committee, for the supervision of public finances and for the possible commissions of inquiry. We have already tried this proposal in the mandate of Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek, we are trying again now. We are aware of the problem of the banking system, and in the Slovenian Democratic Party we are convinced that we owe taxpayers the duty to initiate a measure that will enable taxpayers to be aware of what happened to the money that went up in Slovenian banks. We expect from the Government of Mir Cerar and today from the coalition the possibility that this amendment will be supported. On the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, the coalition of this amendment has not supported and has somehow indicated that the coalition and the government of Mir Cerar will continue the policy of the government of Alenka Bratušek. Support for this amendment is also some kind of support from the SDS Group itself to complement or amend the Banking Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u140	We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 126. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 42. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD to Article 324. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 2. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. Since, in the second reading, consideration of less than a tenth of the articles up to the full proposal for a law, the motion for a law already proposed in the introductory explanation that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, should carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 44 votes against 16. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 16.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. On Tuesday, 31st the third reading of the bill will be carried out by the National Assembly. 3. 2015, after the final vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendments and the articles to which the amendment has been adopted. Amendments to these Articles may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. We continue with the adjourned 2nd item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Forests by Emergency Procedure. Since no amendments have been tabled for the second reading of the amended law, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body made the proposal of the law inconsistent. We're voting. 65 Members and Members were present, 65 of them voted against. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. We are moving on to the conclusion of the legislative procedure for a proposal for a law that was not the basis for the drafting of an amended proposal for a law. The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food proposes to the assembly to adopt the following decision: Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Forests, first consideration submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank, is not suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, Mr Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u141	Thank you very much, President, for your word. In the parliamentary group, we supported the law proposed by the Government earlier. Although we had introduced a law in the parliamentary group one week earlier, which, unlike the Government, provided for the extension of the moratorium on the implementation of carriers for two years, which was also advocated by the Commission for Agriculture, Forestry and Food of the State Council, as well as by the Union of Farmers of Slovenia. However, the Rules of Procedure could be applied by the Government, despite the fact that it later introduced the law by emergency procedure, and this procedure of our law was premature. On the committee itself, the coalition's parliamentary groups tabled an amendment, which represents a compromise between our law and the government, because of the circumstances that follow, we supported this amendment and also the law. We are pleased that the government has hurried with this law because otherwise they would have been created after 30. The 4th effect would be disrupted by the removal of a pharynx or the implementation of this phalange by carriers. Therefore, it seems awkward when now our marriage is not suitable for further consideration. We are pleased, however, that this situation has also been resolved in good time by our initiative.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u142	Be quiet, colleague Han. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 14. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 6th item of the agenda – third reading of the draft toll law in the framework of the regular procedure. On Wednesday 25 March 2015, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the assembly decided, on a proposal from the Government, as the proposer of the draft law, that the third consideration of the draft law should be carried out at this meeting under the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service, or the Government, did not warn me that the amendments adopted at the meeting of the home working body or of the National Assembly made the proposal of the law inconsistent in the second reading. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 49 votes against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of agenda item 14 – Proposal for a candidate for the Minister of Education, Science and Sport. We're moving on to decision-making. We will decide on the next proposal for a decision. The Minister of Education, Science and Sport is called Mag. Claudius Marquez. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u143	Thank you, President, for your word. Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, Ministerial Assembly, Colleagues and Colleagues! We will not support Ms Klaudija Markež's candidates for Minister of Education, Science and Sport in the SDS Group. In fact, we cannot even support the candidate, for the President of the Government questioned her on the proposal. I quote when it was clear that SMC was the most serious candidate for minister and before Markež proposed on the same day of the afternoon, Prime Minister Miro Cerar said: "If it turns out we have an even better candidate or candidate, I will wait another day for a decision." Today, instead of 90 minutes of praising their candidate, SMC members have chosen only 30 minutes to praise or defend their candidate for minister. The government negotiated for 10 minutes, but we wanted it or we didn't want it quiet. This week, the media has been digging up a few things about her. We will not judge whether media records are valid or ordinary gossip, but rather open to those who say that everything is probably wrong or that some story about a minister or candidate is likely to be found. The People's University of Ptuj, silent on why she was employed by Wolf, says that alcohol would not be allowed at sports events, but it is painted with a glass in hand, today we have all Members of the letter of the gentleman who spoke about the car accident and so on. In the SDS Group, we will not judge whether they are journalists' ducks or whether they are facts, but probably where smoke is, it is also a fire. In the SDS Group, we agree with its advocates that the lady is okay, that she is good, that she is nice and that she has a lot of will to do. But unfortunately, when we look at her political and professional experience, this CV is more empty. Political experience – a half-year-old Member, a member of certain committees, spoke to the Education Committee on exactly one occasion. Professional experience – Director of the Human University of Ptuj. And that's it. No local experience, no other experience from other areas to cover. Her general answers at the hearing, we'll talk, we'll study, and so on with all the stakeholders, we're worried. It's the Minister who's preparing the laws, and it's the Minister who's enforcing the laws. With such general feelings, we believe that the candidate will not be in favour of all the tasks that await her. But we hope we're wrong, but that's what the future will be about.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u144	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Desus Group, Mr Uroš Prikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u145	Thank you very much, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'll be very brief. Initially, of course, the Desus Group will normally support the proposed candidate. We will not judge her on the basis of such or other writings in the media, we will judge her, but only after a while, after her work. Now and at this point we wish her great happiness in this work, it won't be easy, it will be difficult, it will be hard. Happiness and all her knowledge and experience from the past that she has accumulated will, of course, be needed. But we will lose one very good and dedicated Member. Once again, the Ambassador's Desus Group will support her and we wish her great happiness on her new path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u146	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SMC Group, Mrs Irena Kotnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u147	Dear President, Honourable President of the Government, Ministers, Colleagues and colleagues! Today, I have heard quite a few words, or a few opinions, about whether a future candidate is suitable for a minister or not. Many times it has been said that she lacked professional knowledge or that she did not give specific answers to her working body. As I said in the debate today, which one of us sitting here knows everything. Which one of us knows everything here? I don't think anyone does. However, I believe that something is very important, namely that the future Minister has the will and that the future Minister has the power to acquire new knowledge in areas where she does not have experience. The second thing I would like to mention is that, given that I met her at this time in the parliamentary group as a colleague, she has a very responsible attitude to work. I think that this responsibility and all these personal characteristics that it has shown in cooperation with us will also bring to work at the Ministry. At the presentation and not only at the presentation, even what we had contact with her, is very proactive, is open to discussion, to cooperation. I think these are the characteristics that will help her in her work, so to speak, in finding a way for solutions in the field of education, sport and research. I believe that she will carry out her work with a great deal of responsibility, and that is why I will support her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u148	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SD Group, Mr Matjaž Germany.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u149	Thank you very much, President. The Social Democrats will be united and unanimously supported by candidate Klaudija Markež, who has proven herself to be a model collaborator in recent months, a fast learner. We believe that the advantage for her is that she does not have experience in the political ring. That may be exactly what will make it so different. It is very important for the Social Democrats to support our intentions to amend Article 57 of the Constitution and also the attitude and view of the Higher Education Act. Social Democrats are aware that we will have to do much and much to negotiate and negotiate with partners in the Alliance in the field of higher education or education, but we believe and know that we will be able to do so. Our voice, the voice of the Social Democrats of Lady Mag. The mark is definitely coming.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u150	Explanation of the vote on behalf of Dr Simon Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u151	Thank you very much. I will, of course, support the candidate, our resident colleague mag. Klaudijo Markež as the new minister, for this extremely important area of Slovenian society and politics. On this occasion, I would like to thank her for all the good work she has done as a member of our SMC Group and wish her more good and successful in her new function. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u152	We are moving on to a decision on the decision to appoint the Minister of Education, Science and Sport. Claudius Markez. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 46 for them and 16 for them. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 16.]] I'm guessing he's a mag. Claudius Markež appointed Minister of Education, Science and Sport. I congratulate the Minister of Government on her appointment and wish her a successful discharge of her duties. I ask the newly appointed Minister to swear before the National Assembly in accordance with Article 113 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. /Applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u153	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u154	She wants to speak in front of the National Assembly? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u155	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Mr President of the National Assembly, distinguished President of the Government and all ministers, my future colleagues! I'd like to thank you for your confidence. I am aware that the responsibility you have given me on my shoulders is immeasurable, but I believe that it will overcome reason, consensus, social dialogue and even the heart. Thank you very much. /Applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u156	Because the MP is a magician. Claudius Markež appointed Minister, in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members, is temporarily unable to perform a parliamentary function. I will immediately inform the National Election Commission and ask it to inform the assembly which candidate or candidate will replace or replace that Member in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members. On the basis of a notification from the National Election Commission, the Mandate-Election Commission will report its findings to the assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 6th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed on Monday, 30. 3. 2015, at 12.00 p.m.
