ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 12th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Jana Jenko, Mrs. Vojka Šergan from 12 noon onwards, Mrs. Anita Koleš from 12 noon onwards, Dr. Jasna Murgel, Mr. Kamal Izidor Shaker, mag. Matthew Tonin, Mr. Franz Breznik, Mr. Joseph Horvat, mag. Marko Pogačnik, Dr. László Göncz, Luka Mesec, mag. Branko Grims, Mrs Ivan Hršak and Mr Uroš Prikl until 3 p.m. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to 28. On the day-to-day basis, this is the debate on the reply of the Ministry of Infrastructure to Mr. Jank's business question regarding the construction of the second railway track between the copra and the savage. At its 11th meeting, the National Assembly decided to hold a discussion on the response made by the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Peter Gasperšič, to Mr Jank Webra's question on the construction of the second railway track between Kopro and Divac. I give the floor to Mr Janko Webr for an additional explanation of the proposal for a discussion on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, President. A nice welcome to all, and in particular in the introduction, I also thank you for your support to colleagues and colleagues so that we can discuss today one of the most important investments in the Republic of Slovenia for sure. However, in the response provided by the Minister of Transport, we can find that we have not reached all the necessary data and facts that could speak about the fact that the construction of the second railway track between Kopro and Divac is extremely important that this is a key project and investment not only to increase the competitiveness of the port of Koper and the Slovenian railways, but also in the interest of the Slovenian economy, since more than 400 companies are involved in this activity and the number of employees is also appropriate. I really wonder why we should not take advantage of this extraordinary natural gift in Slovenia, and this is especially the fact that Slovenia is a maritime state. And access to the sea is one of those high-priority starting points that place Luka Koper among the most important and successful North Adriatic ports. The transport in Luka Koper is growing the fastest compared to other North Adriatic ports and, last but not least, the classification of this section between Koper and Divac means that we are talking about a small section, which is extremely important for the entire Mediterranean route from Lyon to Kopra, Budapest and Kiev. So the economy depends largely on this section and whether we can take advantage of this opportunity or become a weak link in this chain. If we become a weak link, they will benefit from this in both Austria, Italy and Croatia. In fact, we have something to point out in this matter – not only this international aspect and the exceptional importance for the economy, but also whether, as a country responsible for building the infrastructure, we can afford to be exposed to the security aspect of the existing road from Kopra to Divaca. Each year, an increasing quantity of cargo along this route also requires more and more demanding maintenance. The fact is that this line will soon be saturated – with this growth as recorded by Luka Koper – and this can happen to us already in 2018 or 2019. However, if one of the risks or disruptions of an existing route occur at a specific location or an accident and cargo spills in the meantime, it means that the whole region can become a water-free region and this is a disaster for a large part of Slovenia, in fact, Primorska is cut off from the world. Can we really postpone this by building a second track, which would also greatly improve the security aspect of the operation of this infrastructure? If we look only at the impact of Slovenian Railways and Luke Koper and, last but not least, logistics within this activity, we find that it creates 10% of the gross domestic product. All the indicators and factors that we include in the studies and the project to continue this construction also talk about the ability to create 3,000 new jobs during the construction period and the operation of 6,000 new jobs in logistics. Isn't that what we urgently need in Slovenia for our breakthrough? When we ask ourselves how to finance such a construction, if we are not fast enough, if we are not effective enough, we will miss the opportunity to draw on European funds. We have already missed one of the opportunities because we could probably get as much as 85% of the funding for this project and the problem would be solved. Thus, it is an extremely important challenge for us to capture the rest of the European funds and also make an investment within the deadline to enable the successful economic development of Slovenia in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u3	I give the floor to Dr. Peter Gasperšić, Minister of Infrastructure for further explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u4	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I thank myself for the opportunity to discuss such an important project as the second track between Kopro and the Divinator, especially since the initiative for this debate came from coalition types. At the outset, I would like to point out that there is no doubt that the second track is necessary and is therefore also among the priority projects of this government. That is why the Ministry of Infrastructure is working very seriously and very hard to create the conditions for the implementation of this project. So this year we obtained a building permit and European funds for the construction of the first part of the second track project, which is the so-called extraction track. An invitation to tender for the selection of the contractor is under way. In the last year, we have raised this percentage to 98% of all land with the right to build from 80% of the total land obtained for the second track, while the other 2% is only a matter of months. We are therefore counting on a building permit to be issued in the first half of next year for the entire track of the second track. This also means that the Ministry could, in the first months of the following year, draw up a call for construction work for the execution of the second track and also publish it as soon as funds are provided for it or when the financial structure is closed. In the short term, a public international call will be drawn up to carry out an evaluation of the estimated value and possible rationalisations and optimizations of the project. In parallel, in line with the Government's decision, and the fact that we cannot currently finance the project from budgetary resources or with the additional indebtedness of a country causing an increase in public debt, we are also actively looking for alternative funding options. We will definitely run for part of the funds in the European call for so-called CEF funds. In order to ensure the maximum share of European funds, we consider the most appropriate application of the project to an open invitation to tender, where the remnants of the envelopes of the cohesion countries will be shared, thus opening up the possibility of funding in a share of more than 30%, in theory up to 85%. The first such call is expected at the end of 2016 or at the beginning of 2017. However, we have a number of activities to run successfully. We have thus informed the European Commission that we want to activate the technical assistance of the Jaspers mechanism, which operates within the framework of the partnership between the European Commission, the EIB and the EBRD. Experience has shown that projects receiving the assistance of Jaspers are much faster approved than projects that do not make use of this aid. We have submitted the project for review at the European Investment Advisory Centre, which is a joint initiative of the European Commission and the European Investment Bank. Their first activity will be a review of the project task for carrying out the evaluation of the estimated value. All these activities are important for the inclusion of the project in the list of certified projects for the EFSI Guarantee Scheme, a guarantee scheme under the so-called Juncker Fund. This will help greatly to mobilise private funding and thus fill the current investment gap. Let me also mention here that, at our meeting with the Vice-President and Commissioner of the European Commission in early October this year, we have received important assurances that our efforts are being made to find solutions for financing the second track in the right direction. After the above steps have been carried out, we will also prepare everything necessary for the publication of the public call for a so-called interest test to verify the interest of private investors in the implementation of the projects. The government will, of course, decide on this. We also continue to examine the interest of neighbouring countries in financing the project or in investing in the development of infrastructure owned by the country, as it is known that more than 70% of the benefits of the construction of the second track will be borne by neighbouring or frozen countries. Finally, let me stress that I really look forward to today's debate and look forward to your constructive proposals and thank you in advance for them. I certainly assure you that this government and the ministry I run are working intensively to create the conditions for the early implementation of the project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u5	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u6	Thank you very much, President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! The construction of the second track of Koper-Beautiful is a story that really has a long beard. It began in 1996 when the Ministry of Transport and Communications then ordered the production of a study on the eligibility of increasing the capacity of the Divača-Koper single line. The main conclusion of the study was that only by technological reorganisation of the existing track and by interfering with existing infrastructure, it was not possible to manage the expected increase in traffic and to create sufficient reserve capacity on the railway or to provide a lasting solution to the problem of capacity merely to build a new railway connection. Since then, the realization of the second track project has been faced with many obstacles all the way from the nature of the obstacles, which can still be understood to a certain extent, to bureaucratic obstacles, which we do not understand in the Desus Group at least. We believe that this project is crucial for the successful development of Luke Koper and, of course, for the competitiveness of Slovenia in the field of freight transport. One of the latest so-called bureaucratic complications is the failure of the bid to obtain funding for the second track under the European CEF programme. Soon thereafter, and probably not by chance, a study was also made in public by analysts at the International Transport Forum at the OECD, ITF, which identified the second track project as economically unsustainable or risky. OECD analysts see an alternative in the back terminal. Let me return to the unsuccessful candidacy of the Republic of Slovenia for the CEF invitation to tender. At the time of receiving this news, in our Group of Members, we have assessed the responsibility of the Minister of Infrastructure for this disaster. The fact that the Minister has already stated at the hearing as a candidate for the Minister that we will not need another track for at least the next 30 to 40 years gives us the impression that the Minister and the team have not made all the necessary efforts to be successful when preparing the application. In the Desus Group, we estimate that Slovenia is missing an important economic and development opportunity, given that logistics is one of the strategic activities important for the country's long-term economic development. However, if we are aware of the importance of the second track as a country, all other excuses are totally inappropriate. On the one hand, we are listening to claims that this project represents the country's priority, and immediately thereafter, the Ministry's many doubts about its economic injustice, which is at least illogical. We must honestly ask ourselves whether we really want to implement this project. In the Desus Group, we are concerned that the Ministry of Project Implementation is bound by the search for a private investor. We fear that we will not find him at this stage because of the high value of the project and the increasing number of facts about the railway connection between Trst-Divac, which the Ministry of Infrastructure is silent about. In European funds and EIB funds, with the corresponding guarantee of the country, we see the key and the only possibility for the second track project to be implemented. However, in order not to repeat the TES 6 story, when the price has risen beyond all reasonable limits, we need to revise the second track project in both design and cost terms. All of this cannot be avoided by the OECD-ITF study already mentioned, but first some data. From 2009 to 2014, Luka Koper has doubled her transhipment. The growth of the total transhipment since 2009 shows that in Cyprus it increased by 44 % in this period, in Hamburg by 32 %, in Rotterdam by 15 %. It is difficult to accept from these data the claim of the study that the construction of the second track is not economically justified and that the construction of the rear container terminal in Divač is more meaningful. Who really benefits from this? The proposal for a back terminal has provoked a series of responses mainly to the professional public, which has made it very clear that it represents the position of the OECD, that we are literally returning 50 years ago to history. Three times transshipment would be a huge waste of time, high transshipment costs, which would burden the port, and a great threat to the environment when road traffic increases dramatically. The port of Koper would become completely uncompetitive to other comparable ports. This also raises public doubts about the impartiality of the study, as some authors were employed or were advisors in two major European ports. The interest of both ports or logisticians in the purchase of Luke Koper is well known. Such information raises great doubts about the credibility of the results of the analysis. Our parliamentary group joins the expert assessment that Luka Koper, in cooperation with Slovenian Railways, is already achieving exceptional traffic today and is far from the most competitive of all other ports in the northern Adriatic, even if we compare container transport with northern European ports, which are trying to gain their market share within Europe. This is also evidenced by the last decision of the Mercedes factory, which has undoubtedly chosen Luka Koper to tranship its luxury vehicles. Experts point out that the first rail track will reach maximum capacity by 2018 at this trend in traffic growth in Luka. Therefore, in the Desus Group, we join in the question that we are likely to hear today: How forward, when the first track reaches its maximum? Do we really want to divert cargo to the ports of neighbouring countries? Members and Members of the Desus Group believe that the project to build the second track of Koper – Divac is necessary for the further development of the Slovenian economy, so not only Luke Koper and Slovenian Railways. We therefore appeal to the Minister of Infrastructure to ensure the conditions for the implementation of this project, which means that the project's revision should lower the price to the real level and then ensure that the quality of the applications provides financial resources both for European funds and for possible state-guaranteed loans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u7	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matjaž Germany.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u8	Thank you very much, President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, secretary, minister, team! Today we are opening a debate on whether Slovenia will have the courage, whether it will know and be able to bring to a close one of its development priorities, which has been defined as such for decades. That's the second track from Divaca to Copra. We believe that this debate is necessary because in the performances of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Media we perceive messages that could mean that the construction is moving far into the future or that this project would even remain unrealised, which would have devastating consequences for the Slovenian economy. At the same time, this would jeopardise the exploitation of the developmental capabilities that our geographical position and the fact that we are a maritime state give us. We think that the question is not the second line yes or no; the question is how. It is the policy's duty to agree on this. This is also the purpose of today's debate. The second track is necessary for Luka Koper, for the Slovenian economy and for Europe as a whole. We reject the OECD studies, which misrepresent the construction of the second track as economically unjustifiable, as it is based on the incorrect assessment of the growth of Luka Koper, it is treated economically separately from the other logistics network, foresees the unrealistic earnings of any private partner in the construction and proposes unrealistic alternatives in the form of cold terminals. The second track project is well prepared and well rated and the maximum rating is therefore known. Given the management of investments on railways in recent years, we can trust that we will also be able to make a second track, even without exceeding the time and financial deadlines. Real assessment of the construction can only be made by the market, so instead of new studies we demand that we unify ourselves as soon as possible on acceptable construction models and then complete project documentation and close the financial structure as soon as possible. Secondly, it obtains a building permit for the entire project, and thirdly, it carries out an international collection of binding bids for construction, plus a financial model that can prove real assessment and potential contractors for the project. Postponing the project would pose a major threat to the project, as in the meantime it would be possible to miss the deadlines for the exhaustion of European funds and the possibility of favourable funding, and then perhaps it would be too late to have positive effects. The second track is not only important for Luka Koper, it needs the Slovenian economy and Europe. Central and Eastern European countries and their economies import largely through this Slovenian port. This means that we are also building a strategic link between Europe and the northern Adriatic and its ports for the construction of the second track. The public and policy have been very excited by the studies produced under the auspices of the OECD. Before all of us are charged with a new Melagoman project, it must be said that the study is based on wrong assumptions. First, taking into account accurate cargo growth data in Luka Koper, it is expected to exceed the threefold of today’s. It offers ice terminals as an alternative, but ignores the time and costs of their construction and operation. The potential private partner is expected to recover the investment within seven years. Of course, it's not worth it, but that's not how infrastructure is built. The construction effects will last for thirty years, and profits can be distributed as well. Last but not least, the study does not take into account the effects of the second track construction on the whole system, such as 60 % of the freight on the railways coming through the port of Koper. As such, we must reject the OECD study as unprofessional and we expect this from today's debate. Last but not least, we want to stress the importance of building a second track for the entire Slovenian economy and its strategic importance for Slovenian state investment. We are convinced that the project documentation is well enough to begin with the acquisition of building permits, a high standard which the project and documentation ensure that there should be no unnecessary incentives. Social Democrats are convinced that it is now a policy task to unify as soon as possible on acceptable construction models, and then complete the project documentation with possible rationalisations and close the financial structure, obtain a building permit for the whole project, and carry out an international collection of binding construction offers and a financial model that can show the real price and potential operators. Postponing the project would pose a major threat, as in the meantime we could miss the deadlines for drawing on European funds and the possibility of favourable funding and then maybe build up too late. Therefore, we expect from today's debate a simplification of support for the continuation of this project, we expect support to continue the project prudently, but quickly, so that we do not miss the deadlines for European funding and favourable funding. We therefore expect to overcome the Slovenian practice of delaying development opportunities and to take a bold step forward together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u9	The text is given by the Joint Left Group, for her by Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u10	Thank you, Mr. President. Good-bye, everybody! In the Group of the United Left, we share concerns about the response of Minister Peter Gasperšič, who was responsible for today's debate. The Minister is already his entire mandate – let's remember the presentation of his ministerial candidacy on the Home Committee – by his actions at sometimes more, sometimes less open position that building a second track between Kopro and Divac is not his priority and not the priority of this government. After presenting the draft budget for 2016 and 2017, we can even say that not only these government priorities are obviously not other investments in the basic infrastructure of this country and its railways and roads, but also in research, development, education, health and culture. The government of the second track project has also confirmed the work of the Ministry of Infrastructure itself. In particular, this is reflected in the documentation project, which was poorly prepared, even without a closed financial structure, and has in any way sought to involve a private investor whose participation should probably be paid with at least partial, if not total privatisation of the port of Koper. However, the Minister's answer to the question asked by the Member States predicts that it will not be any different in the future, so we can only expect more such or other excuses, why we will not carry out the second track project at the end. There are many reasons why this would be a disaster for the country and its inhabitants in particular. The economic and development aspects are generally highlighted. The first track is projected to reach and exceed already in 2018 or no later than a year later. The alternative to the second track that the OECD has recently raised – we also know who was sitting in the OECD study group, which also explains the conclusion of the same study and proves its only controversy – that is, the construction of the new rear terminal in Divaca, this conclusion, would not have had about as many positive effects on the Slovenian economy, it is estimated that the second track in 20 years would result in some EUR 9.4 billion of GDP, Luka Koper would have become 30% less cost-competitive than today, and the cargo would then start to be diverted to neighbouring ports. This would result in a severe weakening of the company itself, which is extremely important for the region and for Slovenia as a whole from a social point of view. Luka Koper is one of the largest direct employees in the region and indirectly along the entire freight route there to Prekmurje. The weakening of such a company means a serious social bomb. However, these are not the only arguments in favour of the second track project and also in favour of other infrastructure projects. Studies have shown that shifts of excess load to roads have also been harmful to the environment. It would result in greater crowds, more traffic accidents, increased noise, more harmful emissions and more rapid destruction of roads. The negative effects on GDP are estimated at between €400 million and € 1.37 billion without additional rail capacity. In short, a second track project is needed economically, developmentally and environmentally. The questions that remain open are largely whether the current project is optimally set if there is not, how can we prepare a new, better and also how to obtain funding as quickly as possible and the necessary permits to begin its implementation. We expect both Minister Gasperšić and the rest of the government to be more concerned than looking for excuses, why another track in such a constellation cannot be built, dedicated to doing their job, that is to finding answers to how to build a second track and start with a long-term consideration of railway infrastructure, which means much more than just setting up tracks; it is the basis for economic and social development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u11	The text is given by the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats, for which Mr Jernej Vrtovac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u12	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Mr President, distinguished Minister! In Novi Slovenija, due to the many years of funding and construction of the second track of the Divača-Koper railway line, we already requested an urgent meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space in February, if you remember. It is almost incomprehensible that in all the known facts we are still talking about the same thing today, we are still going around in a circle and we do not find a solution, except that we all know that its construction is strategically important for the Slovenian economy and that the project remains a priority for this government. But we don't know the right answers at the same time. In fact, we know nothing more than we knew a year ago or even in 1995, when we started talking about the importance of building a second track. That is also true, the answer of the Minister of Infrastructure to the questions sent by Mr Janko Vebra, and that is why today's debate is also on the part of New Slovenia – we say – welcome and perhaps we can find a solution. It would be a shame if we only talked about known facts, so let me point out the most important or the facts that remain unanswered. Firstly, the value of the investment is still estimated at €1.4 billion, and ever since the launch of the mandate of Minister Gasperšič, even after you have still been appointed, has been considered that we do not need a second track, you are still saying that they will publish a public order to revise the value of the project and analyse possible rationalisations and optimizations. Remember, at the open invitation of the CEF Fund, at which EUR 13 billion was made available, Slovenia fell out of the European Funding game. But why? Only because the project did not have a closed financial structure, so it was not adequately prepared, and despite numerous warnings that such an incomplete application was in advance condemned to failure, did the Minister ensure that it was not otherwise true. Perhaps the minister now expects and hopes that the revision will bring more favourable figures so that the second track can be built for €700 million. Only in this case would construction be financially sustainable. The country has spent €48.16 million on all studies, documentation, various research and land purchases, which is 3.7% of the estimated investment value. Of this, nearly 8 million euros were spent on project documentation and some 40 million euros were spent on land purchases on the route. In comparison, I would like to say that two new ERs could be built for this money in Ljubljana. Third time. The OECD study – by the way, we have deducted 160,000 euros for it, and this study has shown a different reality. The construction of the second track is not economically justified and poses a great risk to the country, they say. But, interestingly, the coalition or part of the coalition certainly rejects this study, as we have heard, and the question arises whether the minister therefore advocates it. The OECD says that the project should be obsolete – of course, since we have been talking about it for 20 years – and as such inappropriate for today’s situation. As an interim solution, the proposed construction of the rear container terminal in Divača and Sežana, which is expected to be sufficient by 2030, should be deducted from EUR 30 to EUR 50 million. However, this means several million euros per year more costs for Luka Koper, which should take care of twice the cargo. From Kopra to Divaca, therefore, transport by truck, which means more than a thousand trucks per day on the road, a lot of extra costs and waste of time if we are accurate. The OECD also expects the restructuring of Luke Koper. Fourth time. The Ministry of Infrastructure is now exploring a set of possible models of public-private partnership, for which we will reopen our wallets by taxpayers. On this basis, it will examine the interest of private investors in the second indent. Only within the framework of the interest shown will the most appropriate model for which the Ministry will prepare a call for a private partner. In Novi Slovenija we are convinced that in today's dynamics of the ministry we can talk about time-far away dimensions. We are also convinced that without a national input, the project is not feasible because any form of a public-private model does not constitute a solution. The fact is that revenue generated on a 27km long track cannot cover the private’s stakes and should offer it much more. What is this, at this point the state is not giving an answer. Minister Gasperšič is now proposing to the government, if we sum it up, that Slovenia re-candidate this project only on calls where the remainder of the cohesion envelopes of all members of the European Union can also be obtained. This means that the European Union's co-financing rate wants to increase by more than 30%. Therefore, we will not run on this year's second call for the allocation of funds from the CEF mechanism. Well, at least one step forward has been taken – we will no longer respond to calls that are clear that we cannot compete with them if we do not have the funds at all. These so-called residues from the so-called national envelopes will be available over the next two years, perhaps even in 2018, but we still do not know how much money will be available. It is also not yet known whether the private partners will be able to be offered a share by the minister or the government in Luka Koper and at the same time in the Slovenian Railways. We also do not know whether the second track will be planned to the intended extent or whether it will be intended only for freight, but not for passenger transport, which would be of considerable value for this investment. What do we even know? Dear colleagues, we no doubt know that the current track will reach its maximum capacity in 2018 and will no longer be able to take on additional cargo. That traffic in the port of Koper is increasing and that this moment is the fastest-growing port in the northern Adriatic is a fact. Therefore, without a second track, it will no longer be able to compete with other neighbouring ports, such as Trieste, River and Benetkam. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! We Christian Democrats regret that Slovenia is losing its logistics and transport competition because we cannot agree on and decide on key infrastructure projects in the field of transport. Our neighbouring countries have virtually no such problems. Without us, I stress, without us, they agreed and began to build a new Baltic corridor that bypasses the Republic of Slovenia. The question is why the new corridors, despite their outstanding geographical position, do not take our country into account. One of the possible answers is given by economist Jože P. Damian in the Saturday annex of 24. 1. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I quote: "They are obviously aware that one of the four motorways of the sea between Asia and Europe leads to the northern Adriatic, they are aware that the increasing flow of containers from China and between Central Europe and Asia will have to be brought through the North Adriatic ports, namely Ravena, Venice, Tržič, Trst, Koper, River, and they are obviously well aware of the possibility that Slovenia will not do its own homework according to historical experience. That's why they're building a ride around it." Ladies and gentlemen, I share this opinion, this is a demonstration of our abilities. Mr. Secretary, however, says there is still no hurry. We believe and we regret it at the same time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u13	The text shall be given by the Group of Non-Aligned Members, for which Dr. Bojan Dobovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u14	Thank you. All those who accompany this meeting are respected! The port of Koper and the second track, these were the subjects of the pre-election battles, the promise, and everyone promised more or less that they would build this railway. In particular, this was the interest of our interest group, which we joined and then later established a SMC party. That was a promise. Now we have a priority, which is a very stretching concept, and members of the coalition explain it very differently. So we used this term to make people feel that something is going to happen, and nothing really happens. This is a strategically important project, and we see that we are on a strategic path now that migrants are flooding our territory, and even more important strategic projects are the link between the Adriatic ports and the Baltic Sea and the Mediterranean corridor. The reference to getting money from Europe. Here we miss the active role of our Commissioner, who could have helped a lot to move this project if of course we had an interest. Also, the role of the minister, who at the beginning of his term of office said that this was a long-term project, moved to the future, and that is how all activities concerning the second track are now taking place. If we just look at the price. As such, the price has not been revised for a while, and the market situation indicates completely different things. In other words, we could build in different cases. Reference to a private-public partnership – we have had quite a few of these projects, for example, in Denmark and Sweden, and more or less, it has proved to be a private gain and a public expense. I believe that we are not able to carry out such a project to such an extent and with such supervision that the project succeeds. Again it would go to the detriment of something and I am afraid that this would go to the detriment of Luke Koper, because it is of interest that Luke, as the only perspective of Slovenia, is privatised. It is a matter of disregarding the multiplier effects of the development of Luke Koper and the second track. Here I would have acquired both companies in Slovenia, jobs as already mentioned today, for the construction period itself, and after the track itself had been built. It is the acquisition of logistics companies that have driven the development of Slovenia. If we look at what solutions have been proposed so far - an OECD study that has suggested something that we have already had in the past. If we look at it, we had this solution before 1960, and Luka Koper made her own choice, rented a loan, and built the first track. Will we now witness similar developments? We had a similar situation, loaded across the road to Divaca, and then reshipped to the railroad. The costs are enormous. If you consult with logists, it means that the costs will be at least 30% higher if we also ignore cargo damage, delays in loading, and thus we will not be competitive. What do we have to ask ourselves? We need to ask ourselves who it is in the interest of not having another track. We know that there are projects such as Trieste-Live, that there is development and is already very well developed, railways via Pontebbe, which will bypass Slovenia. This is where we lose our logistics as at the development of Luke Koper. It is also about showing more interest in the development of railways from Kopra to Trieste. Here is the problem that big players are involved in the game, especially the interest of Italy. I wonder where our institutions are, where our security services are, to assess Italy's interest in bypassing Port Koper and transferring the entire transfer of the transhipment to other ports in Italy, which will then form the backs for the railway via Pontebbe, the inactivity of our institutions or the incompetence and inaction of the government in this area. If we look at it more broadly, we can conclude that we do not include multiplier effects, so that we do not express these effects in European projects. I ask myself: How much and what are we able to gain in the European market? How many of these resources are we able to obtain if we have not been successful in our current applications? How much money is that? How strong are we in Europe to gain this by the people who represent us in the European Union? And: Why can the Italians and the Austrians know what the future of the country is, what does infrastructure mean and how do we gain these resources and not be able to express them? I ask myself: What will we do in the future, what will be the government's activity and what will be the activity of the minister? With reference to some OECD studies. Why did not the Italians and Austrians warm themselves up for similar studies, but they relied on their knowledge and joined the projects? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u15	The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mr Danilo Anton Ranc.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u16	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Dr. Milan Brglez, Minister of Respect, Dr. Peter Gasperšič, Honourable Secretary of State of the Methods of Dragonja, Honourable Fellow Member and Members! The second railway track project between Kopro and Divaca and other infrastructure projects such as the third development axis and other energy projects are priority projects of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and are extremely important for the economic development of Slovenia. Members and Members of the Modern Centre Group support such an important government decision and also the Minister in their efforts to implement these projects. In the past year, the Ministry of Infrastructure has already obtained a building permit and European funding from the first CEF call for the dekani-Koper extraction route of EUR 20.5 million. The extraction track represents the first part of the entire second track project. 98 % of the land was obtained for the construction of the second track and within six months at the latest the Ministry will also obtain a building permit for the remaining part of the route. According to the Ministry of Infrastructure, the project is more or less ready for value assessment and will be forwarded to the European Investment Bank Audit Advisory Centre in a short time. The size and complexity of the project dictates the need to implement different sources of funding for the project. Due to budgetary constraints, the fiscal rule adopted and the government's related decisions, direct budgetary financing through debt is not a solution in the medium term, and models for financing the second track are therefore also sought through European funds and through public-private partnerships. In order to obtain European funds, the Ministry will make an application for it at the first call when the funds of other national envelopes are available. This call is expected by the end of 2016 at the beginning of 2017. In implementing the project, the Ministry of Infrastructure faces not only limited public funding sources, but also the fact that the public-private partnership process is professionally demanding and cannot be designed in a short time. The process of designing a public-private partnership model for comparable projects is approximately 2 to 3 years. The construction of a second track between Kopro and the Divinator benefits the promotion of the economic activity of the whole of Central Europe and Eastern Europe and thus Slovenia. Therefore, from a developmental point of view and in terms of the cost-effectiveness of public finances, it is also essential to ensure a greater share of EU funds, which is extremely difficult to reach in a relatively small national envelope in the current financial perspective. At this point, let me mention that no government so far has done as much for this project as it has, even though all previous governments had better baseline opportunities to obtain funding resources. After 20 years of talking about this track in Slovenia, only this government has decided that the second track is a development priority and has begun to seek solutions that are also acceptable to taxpayers. The capacity of existing railway infrastructure will be filled in by 2020 until 2025. During this time, the whole project cannot yet be implemented, and this OECD study as a preliminary solution proposes the establishment of a back-up terminal. This solution would, of course, allow container growth, but at the same time may have a negative impact on the competitive competitive advantage of Luke Koper, so this project is in its opinion and is not in any way a hindrance to the project's follow-up, perhaps some intermediate phase in finding optimal options. Due to the size and technical complexity of the project in the SMC Group, we support the review of the estimated value of the project with all possible optimizations and rationalisations. We also support efforts to verify as soon as possible the interests of private investors and neighbouring countries to cooperate in the implementation of the project. However, this government and the minister cannot be held accountable for a pre-optimistic project that could have been designed for excessive speeds, so there is a need for some patience to optimize the funds or projects. So far, the activities carried out on the second track project are a condition for the start of an investment, no matter when the conditions remain. All these preliminary procedures must be carried out as only in this way does the project demonstrate a maturity level before the final implementation itself. While the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted at its letter meeting in February this year the conclusion that the realization of the construction of a second track with public financial resources is difficult to carry out, it imposed on the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology to propose, in accordance with the Public-Private Partnership Act, a possible form of public-private partnership for the implementation of a second track investment. On this basis, the Interdepartmental Working Group and agreed cooperation with the OECD were also considered. Therefore, the Government and the Minister shall endeavour, taking into account the decisions adopted in February, to find solutions that will result in a real closure of the financial structure in a way that will be favourable and acceptable to the State and to its citizens as well. We have not pushed the question of the second track onto the side track, but we are saving it intensively. The Modern Centre Group supports the implementation of infrastructure projects such as the second track, the third development axis and other infrastructure projects. We believe that these are extremely important projects in the infrastructure area, which have a multiple effect on economic growth and allow for a balanced and polycentric development of Slovenia and the economic growth of the whole country. For the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and also for the Ministry, this project is not an issue, but it is only a time for implementation and implementation. This also applies to other infrastructure projects of relevance to the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u17	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u18	Dear Mr. Minister, distinguished colleagues and respected colleagues! Mr Gasperšič said at the hearing at the Minister's candidacy that he was opposed to the project because of non-economics, but today he said he knows more about the project and that a solution should be found to cover this deficit in the project. Even today, he cited the possibility of making use of a significant share of European funds, and it is known that this is very unlikely or very unlikely. The estimated value of €1.1 billion without VAT seems to the OECD Group or the ITF Group that have produced a Koper-Divic investment study that this estimated value is too low, with a key question whether all the final elements to be taken into account are known and taken into account. Let me list just a few main; Are all key elements of passenger and freight transport with a width of tunnels taken into account; are risk elements taken into account in the construction; are all financing costs taken into account and, last but not least, the modernisation and further development of the port of Koper? It would take at least three years to organise and successfully implement a public-private partnership. This time for the implementation of the public-private partnership, as well as for the construction of the Koper-Divač project itself, can be bought by the construction of the side and intermodal terminal, which must be performed by Luka Koper itself, with an important segment that also needs to be changed in Luka Koper. Of course, it is very important to recognize the fact that this investment is only for 27 kilometres of track and that a picture of the further modernisation of the entire fifth corridor, from Kopra to Graz, is necessary. When we were rejected at Juncker's invitation to tender, we stressed that by autumn we expect a strategic view of the further development of transport infrastructure for the entire corridor. We know that the 27 kilometers of the track are only a fraction of this corridor, and this is too small for the entire view. We underline the following in the Slovenian Democratic Party. It is necessary to identify all the target elements that we want to achieve so that the investment can be assessed realistically and definitively. Of course we don't have these today. The investment will also include Luka Koper, of course, this will benefit most from this construction, because now Luka Koper is acting as if this investment is not at all relevant. Build both necessary terminals, both side-by-side and intermodal in Divača, to ease the bridge until the second track is built, while questioning the very longevity of procedures in Slovenia and the ability to build in time. The rest of the railway infrastructure should be modernised in the fifth corridor, because we cannot achieve the desired goal by investing in 27 km alone. Carry out the investment of the second track with a public-private partnership where opportunities with shares are open both in Luka Koper and in Slovenian railways. However, the Minister and the Government should provide the National Assembly with a comprehensive review, which will be specified financially and in time for the railway route of the entire fifth corridor in the Slovenian territory. On the basis of a comprehensive view, we will also know the time dynamics of the fifth corridor, which is our final objective, since the section of the debate, section or project Koper-Diviča is only a small part of the whole project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u19	We are done with the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Mr. Tillen Christmas has the word to prepare themselves for the mag. Alenka Bratušek and Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat. Before that, Mr Weber as a proposalr. Please, Mr. Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, President. It is clear from the views of the groups of Members that we are all truly aware of the importance of the second track investment in the National Assembly, and at the same time it is also clearly stated that the OECD study, which even speaks of the non-economic or economic inequitableness of construction, is a study that is obviously more in favour of the Minister's position, both at the time of his candidacy and otherwise at the time of the activities that we have been pursuing in the last period. I would really like to point out, as a proposal for this point, the following fact that, however, we can also find out from the material that I have submitted further to this debate that the project for the construction of the track is prepared to the maximum extent possible in accordance with the standards that apply to such important European corridors. Which means that the value we are talking about today, 1.4 billion euros, is certainly the highest value to be considered when we are talking about providing finance. If the State approaches implementation in a way that this is not a public-private partnership, we can immediately deduct value added tax from this amount. That's over 200 million euros. Given that this investment takes into account the cost of unforeseen works of €7% and €67 million respectively, we also have possible surprises during the construction period already included in this investment value. Finally, extremely high environmental standards are also taken into account on this track, so that crossing the Glinščica valleys and all other measures necessary to maximize the environmental requirements remains practically open only to this issue, which is also sought by the Minister and raised again; therefore, whether certain technical solutions can be reduced and, of course, deplete the project somehow. Of course, we must be aware here that this reduction is possible only again in the context of what also allows for rules and standards for such an important European corridor in which the second track is included. Therefore, we can assess, even on the basis of these professional grounds, that there can be no major deviations upwards, especially if we go to the public tenders which show in the last period that the values for these tenders are lower than they were at the time of the evaluation of this value. The next, which is an outstanding and crucial question, is in fact this. It is also clear from the material that we have obtained from the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and that it has actually responded to this event, and also from the material that I have submitted to today's point, that even if the Ministry and Government insist on private partnership, it is clear that without public funding, it will not work here. So why wait for a private partner, but if building an infrastructure is a duty of the state, not a private one? Also, if a privateer comes along, we'll have to subsidize this private once again. The case of Deutsche Bahna also shows, according to the Slovenian Chamber of Commerce, that the private person was willing to submit a total of 7.4% of the total value in this case. So more than 90%, 93%, still needs to be provided by the country, even if we are talking about a private partner. So, why are we waiting for a private partner? This is really something that we should get an answer to today and a clear commitment to go forward with this project, because we have purchased all the land, the building permit will be obtained, the technical documentation is ready and respected assembly, see, we recently sold, they sold the New Maribor Credit Bank to which we have invested 870 million euros. The value of the second track without VAT and with some reliefs is moving around about one billion. If we go into the projected reduction of some interventions, we will also get an estimate of €800 million. So, look, we have already donated a second track to a foreign financial society in this period, and we ask ourselves whether Slovenia should be in charge of providing, say, 50% of the funds in this investment, only 400 million to help the economy in order to help create jobs; so, in order to help people. So when we talk about banks, it is never a problem to invest 5 billion that do not actually return these funds to the economy, but when we talk about Luka Koper, about the second track, about Slovenian railways, about 400 companies involved, this is a huge public financial problem in Slovenia. As long as we look at this effect of investing public funds and also borrowing, we will certainly only sink and others will overtake us because they do not really wonder whether it makes sense to invest in the railway because the North Adriatic ports are truly extremely promising. And no other country does that except for us. I think it would be a good time to give the economy an opportunity and every euro invested in this investment shows studies will return to the country at 2.5 euros. So if we invest a billion, we get at the time of exploitation, if I may say so, these lines, 2 billion and a half as far back as the state. Where's the question here, why don't we decide to go to construction?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u21	I give the floor first to Dr. Peter Gasperšić, Minister of Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u22	Thank you, President. Dear Members and Members! Allow me to respond briefly to these introductory discussions. I also find that the opinion of most of us here in the hall is that there is no doubt that the second track is needed. But we need to talk about how to get to him. And we need to come in a responsible, sustainable way. There was quite a few speeches and criticisms about how we did this at the Ministry if we ordered some harmful study. I wouldn't argue with that, but I couldn't agree with that. I think that the study was done responsibly, precisely and also their results are experts, I think, adequately argued. I would say, however, that the study did not propose that the second track should not be worth the alternative to an ice terminal, but that the ice terminal is an intermediate solution until Luka Koper and all of it, I will say, infrastructure develops to this extent that it will not be by building this project, a difficult project – we are talking about a billion 400 and billions of half, which are certainly not small funds. We have to take responsibility for this project. In my view, it is our key task to discuss how, in what way. In February, the government decided to do so with the public-private partnership due to restrictions on public funding. This analysis has also shown us that public-private partnership is not a simple solution. It is not a solution that could facilitate the matter if we are not here as a country willing to offer something to potential private investors. Certainly these are difficult tasks, for which it takes quite a time both for analysis and for preparation, this time has been estimated at three to five years. Here we are now asked whether we are going on this path or whether we are looking for other solutions that are still possible, but we need to study them as soon as possible. I am talking about some other alternative funding options, where the country would properly engage, have also activated together with the logistics companies that are most profitable – Luka Koper and Slovenian Railways. In short, we have already examined all these options and will also do so, so that we can get to this project in a faster way, and above all, I stress only a sustainable way. The OECD study on economic eligibility shows that certain risks for the country may be associated with this project if we fail to make the project properly, in an appropriate manner. They would be very irresponsible to say that studies are not necessary. On the contrary! I think that studies are necessary if I want to attract a private investor into the project, and I think that studies are also necessary if this project is decided to be financed by the State. Thus, it can be said that this project brings so many benefits that it is indisputably clear that it brings positive results to the country at the start, in some ways because we need to know, as a country, where we are going to invest certain funds – say, we are talking about where we are going to invest a billion euros – we need to know that there are other alternatives. We have here available energy rehabilitation, we have available hydropower plants, we have available many other projects that also have multiple effects. We're here from the point of view of the country, when we decide where we're going to invest, actually have all these things in mind. The country's resources are not unlimited; we need to find an appropriate balance in order to meet all these priorities. The second track is not the only priority, but it is one of the key priorities and we must therefore find the right, appropriate ways here to be able to carry out all these important projects. However, we cannot focus all our resources on the project, but we know that we have problems, say, already in maintaining existing infrastructure. That is why it is a difficult task here to find an appropriate solution that will be sustainable, which we will be able to afford, to finance, but we will not then stop the development of infrastructure in all other areas. Here is the difficult task that the government is facing, which the Ministry is facing. All these development priorities must be taken into account. I wanted to point that out somehow. I am not saying again that now I want to degrade the importance of the second track; I just want to stress that it is important that we do this in such a way that we do not compromise other development priorities. I hope that we can really talk here about how we can get this project into an economically sustainable framework and find a way to finance either with a private partnership or with the resources of the country, and, as has been said already today, I think that the involvement of companies that will benefit the most from this project is that of Luka Koper and of the Slovenian Railways. These attempts have already been made on our part, and these discussions will continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u23	Mr. Tillen Christmas has the floor. Get ready, mags. Alenka Bratušek and Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. I am honored to be an isolated, coastal or coastal Member so that I can somehow start this part of the debate in order. If we start somehow at the beginning, even as SMC, we see this second track as one of those projects that will allow the developmental breakthrough or progress of this country at several levels. The fact is, it's not an easy project, because if it were simple, we wouldn't be talking about it now in 2015, but when the first debates started, 20, 30 years ago – we would have had it now. So in the sense that ever since we got here, this has to be in one year, that everything should be standing, moving on, I think it's kind of illogical in principle. Because, unlike what is in others, when only a promise has to be made, like the SMC, we have decided to do this; and there is a big difference between the promise and the implementation. To make it happen, you have to think about something else than what you're going to say in the media. In these times, as I see it, if we look at infrastructure and so on, we are somehow at the beginning of where flows will go within the European Union, where flows will go within the world. I think that this decision on the second track is not just a decision on the second track, it is the whole railway network in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, the whole railway network in the area of this Europe. Given that Europe also sees this as priority projects, we are somehow on the common denominator, when we find that actually improving transport means jobs too, means economic growth and so on; that we will not talk so much about where to take it, that we will give to those who are socially weak, but that we can actually give them a decent life through work and development. So this is kind of about those three basic points. The first issue that we may have missed a little bit and will also need to be reconsidered under this project is the industrialisation of this country; the real industrial areas. We have Luka, we've developed Luca, we've had a plan, we've had the Economic Zones Act, we've got a lot of other things going on, and there was a whole lot going on, and in the end, we're just staying with Luke and a little bit of an effect on industry. There's gonna be a lot of thinking here about how we're gonna do it. The second thing is, it is true to improve the rail network, and the third thing is to make the most of this natural monopoly that we have been given. Because it is a fact that Slovenia does not have any excessive happiness with natural wealth in terms of mines, in terms of what else, hydrocarbons. We have some small oil, just for a sample, we have some minerals, if we're talking about lead, mercury This time we've kind of overrun and we're looking for those new or permanent ones that we've always had, that's what we've been saying, this geostrategic position that I think a lot of Slovenians have been carrying bread for centuries. [[…]] If we look at, since the ancient times, we've been going through major roads, there we've been talking about the width of 3 Feet, 6 Feet, then we've come back in recent times, under Austro-Hungarian, it's also been found that this is an extremely important area for transport, and now we find it again. It is similar to fashion, when something new is invented, which has been known for a long time, it is necessary to build and upgrade to the next level. So if we look at some numbers, some of the interesting ones that we got, let's say this one. Number of freight trains per year: 2009 at this foot 13 thousand 690 in one year, 2014 – 20 thousand 936. Index 153 %. You have to admit there's something growing. If we look at the average daily number of trains, we go from 38 to 58. If we look at the gross mass of each train, we find that it was practically the same, which means the fact is that the overload has risen. If we move forward as far as the capacity of the current track is concerned, it is said that the first track, which is extremely burdened, has the specifics of the mountain railway, which is in some ways also expensive, because it must, after all, be practically re-established for six years because it is so much used. And we find that in the first 10 days of September, at a maximum capacity of 72 trains per day, we had between 74 and 80 trains per day in six days; I stress, at a capacity of 72. So, it has some potential for this track, it's actually pretty much spent, and here's the argument for the second track. If we move forward as far as the trans-shipment is concerned on the entire rail network, we find that more than half of it comes from this narrow throat that is supposed to be saved by the second track, and that is what we are promising. So when we're talking about the second track, we're not talking about the Coast wanting something, we're talking about the country wanting something to have and to fit into this European space. We're talking about this being the first bottleneck we're saving. We're going to have to solve the entire route, which is the Hungarian border, because the average speed right now, I understand, is just below 25 kilometers per hour. Far from wanting the cargo government to fly 160 an hour, because I don't think it makes much sense for us to drive iron ore at this speed, because I think that then electricity costs us more than the whole load, but to some meaningful numbers, that we will be competitive, that we will be some day before or always at least a day early on the target as our competitors can. What do you say we move on? What's the danger now if this gets a little messy? This is what was repeatedly said that these transport flows could somehow bypass us. If they get past us, we have serious problems because getting them back is much harder than getting them in the first place. Since the fact is that the first to be connected is that the first port to be connected in a good way with one of these key corridors will lead to the market. As Slovenia, we certainly want us to be leaders in the market, but not to be followers, because those who will be first connected will probably also dictate the pace of development, will also suggest how the integration of North Adriatic ports will take place, because, after all, one port in all is very few, we are talking about everyone else. And here it has our relatively great potential, given that we look at the River, Trieste and so on, it is the only one that can spread back and forth in the hinterland with both transshipment capacity and capacity for the industrial area and others. The fact is that this network to be repaired will also have a positive impact on Slovenian railways. We've been following him for years as a patient. The increase in pre-shipment is one of the possibilities not to become a patient, but that we will have something else from Slovenian railways than to a large extent every few years rehabilitation or re-capitalisation. We can further see that some of the positive effects that we would like to have, which we are often talking about, are also jobs that have higher or higher added value. We are also talking about how we want GDP to grow and so on. This effect, for example, of this second track, or of the entire rail network, undoubtedly has a lot of benefits. In addition to Luke Koper, pilots, shipkeepers, repairers, logists, Slovenian Railways, as already mentioned, freight forwarders, the industry involved in this, financial transactions, it is said, from insurance companies to banks and so on, the country benefits from this in some way. If we look at Luke's current data, they contribute to the state budget, to the municipal budget, and so on, just over 40 million euros, which is not enough for 170 million traffic. We have a compensation for the use of building land of about 5 million, we have dividends of about 2 million and a half, we have a concession that they pay each year, now after the new Ankaran and Kori municipality, about 5 million euros. We are talking about the corporate income tax, about 3 million a year, we are talking about paid social security contributions where our cashiers are fed, and here we have over 10 million euros on an annual basis, plus something comparable to income. We also have the rest, we have investment in the local environment, sport and so on. And then where everyone else is, if we're just talking about Luke, we have all the other companies that are also investing in these areas. I think that once again it has also been found that an additional million tonnes of transhipment will bring some less than 500 jobs in this area. If we want to raise employment, as we imagine it, it is said not only with shopping centres, but with industry, with the re-industrialisation of Europe, which is also happening now, we have somehow all come to this conclusion – if we look, Germany is pulling industry back from China to itself, if we look at France and so on – it is time to think about it in the same way that we in the SMC have imagined that this industrialisation, this improvement of logistics connections, and so on, that we will be able to do the next 50, at the end of 100 years. It is said that we will not only be consumers, but also produce. We have pre-positions, you can see this also from data on how Slovenian exporters are currently growing, and this is one of these things. If we look at one of those mistakes that I actually think is in the wider circle, we agree that this potential for overload has been underutilised in terms of the industry being built in the back. Why? For example, at the final stage comes a series of materials used by Hyundai in production through the port of Cyprus, and then the cars bring them back to port to take them forward, and they are produced in the Czech Republic, and elsewhere. These are the potentials that we have somehow failed to take advantage of in recent years and I think we will have to take advantage of them. Since 10,000 jobs in the industry, probably brought by an additional thousand jobs in Luka Koper, something counts in this area, because in the end you know that the Coast or Primorsko met quite honestly with the tsunami. Speaking of the rear terminals, the Eagle Giants, and so on – what were the plans that were bold when Luke almost kneeled; when we were talking about what happened in Inter-Europe and so on. This was a number of such ambitious plans without some serious foundations that concluded there, that in fact the current Coast is, if we look at it, also through Istrabenz and so on, slightly on our knees or on our knees. Projects such as this promise that we will be able to get together on the coast, not only on the coast, but also on the whole of Slovenia. If we go any further to the question of how the project will be financed. Now, just like my college professor at the seminary in his textbook, he wrote that after his independence, suddenly there were countless new economists who, until they started talking, didn't know what they knew. There's a similar situation here. For my understanding of funding, we need to clear up certain things first: we need to have a financial structure found, we need to have a revised project, and from there we are discussing how we are going to finance it. Surely there are many ways in which each one that is somehow given in advance as a salvation is not saved — until the number is on the table. We still have some potential here. Every day, we can hear, we are interested in other countries, we are interested in companies, we are interested in different institutions, eventually the development bank, and so on. He's interested in Juncker's fund then through some institutions – yes, potentially. They are interested or we are interested in European funds. So, there are a lot of possibilities for funding. In these options it is definitely necessary to find the right Internet, and we will need this Internet when the numbers are on the table. Since decisions must be made in any case on the basis of facts and calculations, there is absolutely no need to make decisions on the basis of feelings or intelligence. Two must be replaced as soon as possible by facts and fears with concrete risk calculations and the second track theory must be replaced with practice. Because of the fact that theory, from a theoretical track, can benefit a very narrow group of people, from a practical track that works, but can benefit the whole of Slovenia, or even the end, as we find, a wider Europe.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u25	The word has magic. Alenka Bratusek. Prepare Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat and Mr Jan Škoberne.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Good-bye! Dear Minister, what you're doing with the second track is unacceptable and harmful to our country. Although we have heard many times today, I will repeat again why the second track is extremely important for our country. First of all, it's a big infrastructure project. I believe that you remember or realize that the whole of Europe is talking or has started to talk about major infrastructure projects that are supposed to drive the European economy. The 300-million Juncker package was also created precisely because of this. For the first time, the second track is important for Slovenia because it is a major infrastructure project and thus an additional positive pressure on stable economic growth. This should be understood by you, Minister, after one year, and at the same time by the whole government and the entire coalition. Secondly, I hope that you know that Luke Koper, without a second track to such an extent that I am not talking about any bigger, is simply gone, so I do not understand how he can be back on the table today or another track or some other project worth one billion euros. Those were your words, Your Honor. But it is true that the second track is a project that has been following you since the very beginning of your ministerial route. For the first time, at the hearing, you said that the second track would not be the Ministry's priority or our country's priority for at least 30, 40 years. Then you changed your mind under the pressure of coalition colleagues and colleagues, of course, and this project suddenly became a priority project for you and your ministry. Following – again under the pressure of coalition colleagues, not from SMC – I believe that from Desus and SD in particular – a call for a European project. I put my hand in the fire, Minister, that before you sent this project up, you knew the answer would be negative. I don't know if you thought that would be an alibi, that you could say that now there's no money, and now there's not going to be that project? First or second large your fiasco in relation to the second track. Third. OECD study, which said the same. With that part of the study that the project with a billion 400 doesn't hold up, I completely agree. But you also chose this study as an alibi – I told you that this project in Slovenia is not sustainable and unnecessary. In fact, from the very beginning, you give yourself a ball, it is needed, it is not necessary; it is necessary; it is not necessary; it is a priority, it is not a priority. I can say, Mr. Secretary, that I appreciate you and I know your past work, so my attitude towards this project is much less understandable. The words that this is a priority project are insufficient, necessary and will be action. But most of all, I'm surprised that the only thing you agree with when we talk about the second track is the value of this project. In short, you continue to support that this project is really worth, I think, about a billion 400. In my opinion, this is the only thing you should categorically say: no. Minister Omerzel left an updated €460 million project on your desk at the time of handover, so I just don't understand why you insist on such a high-value project and who here must have earned a few hundred million. Minister, after all your public appearances and in the National Assembly, I do not believe that the second track is your priority project. These are just words, actions show everything else: in the 2016 and 2017 budget, in these two years you have provided for the second track – I think in both years together – EUR 16 million. For 100 years Slovenia will need to provide a second track with this dynamic and thus enable the development of the port of Koper, enable the development of Primorska and enable the development of Slovenia! To be patient, Mr. Ranc from SMC told us. How patient we are! Because if you weren't, you'd be on the table today, or you'd have been interpreting your competent minister a long time ago. I believe it's hard when you say something, and in this one year, nothing was done on this project. It's hard. I believe that you, or quite a few of your Members, are getting less and more patient when we talk about the second track. It is not important to be patient, however, that we are aware that this project needs to be brought into a sustainable financial framework. I agree that finding a private partner, if it is not possible to obtain it, is your obligation to seek out public funds in order for this project to be implemented. Let's stop fooling around! And, Minister, finally, once and for all, give us a clear answer: this project will, will stand, will be built by then.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u27	Dr. Peter Gasperšič, Minister of Infrastructure, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u28	Thank you, President. I would like to respond to certain statements made now by honourable Member Alenka Bratušek. In particular, on the table by the predecessor of Minister Omerzel, I had documentation assessing the value of the project to EUR 600 and several million. That's not true, I don't know if he left anything like that, then I didn't see it. At the same time, he left the Investment project a programme in which the project was estimated at these billion 300, at those 2013 prices, now at current prices of 400 billion with tax. However, we are aware of Minister Omerzel's claims that he estimates that this project could be built for half as much money as possible. As far as I'm aware, these assessments have been very resilient, so I'll say, over the thumb based on some estimates of concrete prices. But we know that this project isn't just concrete, it's a lot of other things. So even if the concrete were half priced, the project wouldn't be half priced. However, I agree that this is in fact, as you said, a major project and that the European Union has recognised the importance of large projects as driving the European economy and is therefore setting up certain mechanisms. One of these is the Juncker Fund, with which such projects, which are risky, are not most attractive to private investors and because of the situation in which European Union countries are unable or difficult to finance such projects due to public funding constraints, in short, to make these projects easier to finance with private investors. We have also embarked on this path; in fact, before this Juncker Fund was created itself, the government has decided to try to secure its financial coverage with the public-private partnership for the second track project, which is by no means an easy task. I would also comment that Luke Koper is not without another track; this is an exaggerated statement. The port of Koper will still exist, but of course it has limited capacity for development. Certain developments will still be possible, including with the spare capacity that we will establish by modernising this existing track, including by building an extraction track, the capacity of this existing link will increase to 17 million tonnes, which is in fact only slightly less than today's total transhipment in Luka Koper. So I will say that if we keep this share of distribution of the transhipment, how far along the road, how far along it goes, this would be enough for the whole transhipment somewhere up to 25 million tonnes, which is estimated to be achieved between 2020 and 2025. So I will say that further development is possible, but also then Luke Koper will of course be able to develop, but most of the cargo, the growth of the cargo, will have to flow onto the highway network. It's just a comment that you don't have to be the black side of the bell, that Luke Koper will just end if there's no other track right now. In no way does this mean, of course, that the second track is not important, it is not necessary. Also, what I said in my opening statement for the Minister's City was that the second track in the form it was intended to take for the next 30, 40 years. This was a statement based on the data then available. Now we know that this need for a second track will come sooner, but it will not be possible to build it if it is not economically sustainable. That's the question we have before us today. We need to ensure that the second track of investment, which will be economically covered, and I do not think any Member State can afford to invest in projects that do not then come at the final stage of some coverage. This would simply be harmful for taxpayers. Here are the tasks that we have yet to perform, and I agree that this assessment of the value of the project is necessary. We have already prepared the tender documentation, already my predecessor has already had matters in this direction prepared to a certain extent. In fact, things are still being checked with the European Investment Bank, so that this call will be so designed that we will also get the desired answers that we then need to close this financial structure more easily. As has already been said, we are also reviewing the project at the so-called World Centre of the European Investment Bank. In English, they call Advisory Hub at the EIB, where the project will be examined and based on this will receive approval. If it is assessed that it is sustainable, the project is approved and placed on the list of projects for which a guarantee is then granted under this so-called EFSI mechanism or so-called Juncker Fund, which, by the way, is not a fund, it is a European guarantee mechanism for such infrastructure projects. What else could it be that we knew in advance that applying for a European call for funds on the first call for proposals will be unsuccessful? [[...]] Of course, we were not able to know this, but it turned out then from the reports that came out that the probability of success was relatively small, since the application was three times more than the resources available. Then, for example, the neighbouring Republic of Austria, which is very much mentioned as being successful and visionary in its financing of infrastructure, could also have been relatively modestly successful in obtaining these funds. If I am not mistaken, they have received EUR 50 million of the 400 requested for one project and they have not received funds for another project. We have also received €50 million of European funding in this call, half of which is for the draw track, half of which is for projects on the rest of the Slovenian European Corridors network, where, of course, we must also make sure that the requirements of the TNT Network standards are met. In fact, if we do not do so, we will not benefit from the second track project itself if we do not meet the requirements of these standards on the rest of the network, then in Slovenia we fall off the TNT networks, which is a serious damage to the Slovenian economy and logistics at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The replica's got Mrs. Mag. Alenka Bratusek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I will again assure you what I said, what I did with former Minister Omerzel before I said these things. So we're talking about a project worth about €640 million. But I am now, after this intervention of yours in some way, sadly, convinced that you made the cross personally across the second track. If I had hoped before the meeting that we would get answers that would optimistically convince us that you have ideas about how, how, whose money and until when, I am now firmly convinced – but I see no reason – that you are personally against this project. If you say today that the trucks go from the railway to the highway, Mr. Minister – get in the car now and drive from Ljubljana to Koper or from Koper to Ljubljana! Instead of your goal of getting more trucks on the railroad, you say that Luke Koper's development is enabled by bringing some cargo after this slow 40 kilometers an hour, and we'll put everything else on the road. This has convinced me that there will really be no second track under your ministry! Dear colleagues and colleagues in the SMC, you are the one who will have to decide whether such a minister still has your trust.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u31	Thank you very much. It was more controversial than a replica. Next up is Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat. Mr Jan Škoberne, Mr Marko Ferruga, please prepare.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u32	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. Hello, all Members and Members of Parliament, Minister of State, Secretary of State! The port of Koper, as all the predecessors find, is also the most important port in the northern part of the Adriatic Sea and therefore there is no doubt about it. The economy is largely linked to Luka Koper or dependent on Luke Koper. Therefore, we must not allow ourselves to be missed by an opportunity that not only preserves the current scope of Luke Koper's business, but also guarantees the development of the region. The construction of the second track provides, as we have already heard today, 3,000 new jobs, 6 000 jobs in logistics and, last but not least, represents the fundamental social development of the region. The current capacity of the existing railway track is not unlimited. It is important to take seriously the conclusion that the current track, taking into account the growth of Luke Koper, will reach its maximum capacity by 2018. Therefore, with respect and respect, the Ministry of Infrastructure must accelerate all the activities necessary to start the construction of the second track as soon as possible. The distinguished Minister of Gasperšič reiterated today that a building permit was issued for the construction of the extraction track and that financial resources were also provided. The Prime Minister has repeatedly ensured that this government will accelerate all the activities needed to build a second track as soon as possible. Also, the Minister, who has been quoted or acknowledged by some as saying at the hearing for the Minister that we do not need another track for several years, has said several times, including at the Committee on Infrastructure and at today's meeting of the National Assembly, that the second track is necessary to build if we want Luka Koper to maintain the scope of her transport or that it will be possible for this port to develop to the extent that the current trends show. With regard to funding, Minister Gasperšič reiterated today the government's position: for the first time, that the state does not have money to finance a second track, not from budgetary resources, because this would create an additional hole in the state budget, and that it does not intend to provide public debt, that is to say to hire a loan or to tender bonds for this construction. It is therefore looking for financing models for the construction of a second track from European funds and from public-private partnerships. I believe that the ministry, as well as the government, should think more about public debt, because I am also afraid, as some other debaters have said before me, that we will not be able to secure a public-private partnership as soon as possible or that it is difficult to find candidates who would invest a billion 400 billion billion billion and a half in the construction of a second track because their investment would return very slowly. Let me get this straight. I expect that the government and the Minister, Mr Gaspersic, will do their utmost to build the second track as soon as possible. It was also said that the land has already been bought out, that the building permit will be issued; hence, the problem is the financial means to secure this investment. That is why I expect the Minister to do everything he can to find a way to secure these financial resources and to do everything he can, because I will do it again in the end that the investment is economically justified and the construction of the second track is urgently necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. Jan Škoberne has the floor. Mr. Marko Ferruga, Mr. Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u34	Madam Vice-President, Honourable Minister, Secretary of State, colleague and colleague! Technically, there is relatively little more to say in this debate because it is indeed a political decision. That's why I thought it was a nice dilemma, or why countries would come forward to organise the Olympic Games and what they would do after the Olympic Games were won. Of course, the Olympic Games are announced with the aim of promoting the country, the city, the region in order to bring more people, more investment, more development, more new ideas in the near and longer term. When they successfully promote this, they find that the event of the Olympic Games is at the door and that it is essential that, as a country, as a city, as a region, all these potential investors and newcomers offer as much as possible to bring money, new jobs, factories, financial resources, whatever they need on the next visit to this site. And what do they do? Primary infrastructures are flying, mostly transport infrastructures! Because connectivity for all these people is crucial that they ever intend to return to this environment again. They modernise railways, roads, municipal infrastructure; in short, as has already been heard today, they undertake major investment projects that, on the one hand, strengthen the domestic economy, stimulate economic growth while at the same time allowing this city, this country or region to be seen as a potential source of new growth, i.e. as a city to invest in. I'm sure I couldn't agree with the fact that the second track is only important because of Luke Koper. Far from it! He's also important to Luca Koper. If we mature and look at the investment opportunity to build a second track only through the prism of Luke Koper, this framework may even be too small. We need to think about what this means for all the other companies, for all the other investors, perhaps those that are not yet there, or especially for those that are not yet here. And above all, we can't look at seven, not 15 years, not 20 years. A major infrastructure project such as the second track, such as roads and railways in general, must be understood in the context of a long-term understanding of the development of a country, region and city. Procrastination in such projects, of course, means that it will be a year or two or three longer until we can compete between the cities, regions and countries that have already done this or that are now doing it in parallel with us and hope that we will be so far behind that they will be the first to regulate the links. If there's no connectivity, money, factories, jobs, people don't come. If none of this comes, there is no economic growth, there is no economic growth, there is no new jobs, there is no state treasury and so on. Of course, it is most ungrateful to be in the role of Minister of Infrastructure in charge of carrying out this project, which is responsible for finding money for this project, to find investors. At the same time, I also find it difficult to understand the Minister's statements, although I believe they were not meant to be; if you do, it will, but Luke Koper will wait a little longer, but it will be in a slightly worse competitive position for some time. I believe it wasn't meant to be what it sounded like. But, above all, these short-terms or, in this case, even the medium-term and lack of visionary ability to place such projects and to understand the context in which we put them, we must be afraid. When Barcelona decided to play the Olympic Games, when London decided to do so when Beijing decided to do so, they updated a large part of public transport infrastructure while performing a remarkable sporting event. And the growth that's happened to them, and it's still happening to them, and it comes from this project, it's not based on them having a great show for athletes and viewers. It comes from the fact that there were secondary and tertiary effects in the new ideas, new investors, and people going back there. Because conditions were created, not because he was a good flamethrower. Slovenia must create the conditions and one of the conditions for investors, factories and jobs to come to Slovenia, is also the second track, the third development axis, the north and the south, and there is still a lot to do. With regard to the issue of priority, it seems to me that they are clear in a given context, and that is why I wish us good luck in this project to the Minister, the Ministry and all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr. Marko Ferruga has the floor. Mr. Daniel Krivec, Mr. Jernej Vrtovec, be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. Hello, Minister! This psychosis of the second track or Trnuljce wakes up, repeatedly, 25 years, each year probably has its causes and its consequences. Here I have two books, two such, I will say, important authors, namely Mr Petrinja, who was the first director of Luke, and Mr Korelić, who has done much for Luka. And maybe I'd start with another interesting fact that I previously checked on Wikipedia. In the early 19th century, the Americans were two centuries ahead of us, starting to build a railway, which is called the East West. If I read Wikipedia correctly, they did this even in three years or some three or five years in battle. We've been fighting for these 27 kilometers in 25 years. It's just a call for all of this. But I'm going to start, if you'll allow me to quote, I've read both books with pleasure, and I'm just going to start reading to you, and you might get a connection to today's situation, which is almost like a deja vu of everything that's going on here today. As early as July 1963, there was a re-meeting in the executive world – this is now the government, if I translate from that dark grey regime where everyone suffered – and then, I will not read everything, it was ordered that "the investment group make a realistic estimate of construction costs as soon as possible..." [[audible signal]] Opala, sabotage of the coastal MPs. May I continue, Vice President?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u37	Yes, you can.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u38	So, "as soon as possible, a realistic estimate of the cost of construction of the railway connection to Kopro... to determine the financial obligations of individual stakeholders to finance investments will be taken into account also by the foreign loan and the investor will also identify these options." Most important, though, was the conclusion that he was building and investing. Regarding the level of investments, the opinions were different, "and the financial structure could not be completed." Pika. And then, "although it was clear that the construction of the track would be much more expensive." How much, you didn't know. Despite the conclusions, preparations for the construction of the track progressed very slowly and so on. Then I'll come to this side that seemed important to me. "Rentable business of Luke Koper" – this is on page 70 – "has enabled the return of all the interest loans" they had for this rail – which is from 1967, it is said, so many years around me – and then there are further questions, "What is the earnings of the Slovenian Railways now on the Koper-State border?" He doesn't know. "The revenue of Slovenian railways, in particular business profits, is for the benefit of the whole of Slovenia. The current capacity of the track is maximized" – this was in 1971. "Necessary construction of the second track of Koper-Divača is stalling" – already at the time. "It should have been built three years ago. History seems to repeat itself."But it does happen again!? "The current attitude of the government and Parliament – this is what we are talking about for that socialist ugly lumpo – "until the construction of the second track is the same as the relationship of the management of the Slovenian railways to the construction of the Koper-Prešnica railway. It was in 1957–1967 in Luka Koper very little... because there was very little trade in Luka Koper at the time” and also Luka Koper was not established and so on. Basically, it's hard for me to listen because now Mr. Minister is experiencing these attacks, but these attacks should have been in line for 25 years now, because one year since Mr. Minister is here, something could have been done, but not everything. But if all governments took one step at a time, one piece at a time in this mosaic, I think we'd have this second track now. Everyone's here, and I think after all these public studies, 80% of the people are for this. Yes, because the second track is very important, but we also need to take the second track in the context of all railway updates. So far the railways have been neglected; why, it is a big question. Whether it's a question of greed or something else I don't know, I wouldn't even speak. However, if I go back to the other gentleman, Mr Korelić, who also writes beautifully and on page 66 is very important, what he wrote is: "Key developmental and systemic problems and shortcomings, and in particular understanding of the importance of the port for Slovenia, we also had to resolve several times in the cabinet of the Prime Minister. Despite the principled support and requests of the Prime Minister, individual ministers either acted on their own discretion or, rather, did not regulate what was agreed at the meetings." He was Director Luke for quite a number of years, and then let's think about how and what. As Tillen said before, unfortunately, there was such a big political tsunami on our coast that all of these powerful players, such as Istrabenz, Intereuropa and Luka, were quite slow. Here I see again some re-animation of our coast, which is important, and I think that if we all realize that this project is about some renaissance of Slovenian railways, if it goes, perhaps too far to go here for some Cerarov's marshal's plan or Cerarov's new deal after Roosevelt and that we see here, we all see, one great opportunity for the development of Slovenia, which also Tillen has already spoken, some industrialization based on the development of logistics and then these free-duty zones and then these – not only business deals, it's already belts, but actually attracting all these potential companies from the Middle East, which have a huge, enormous interest, and here we all know, then we can make a big breakthrough. And we in Slovenia actually care about this breakthrough. I don't think any of the clients look different. The only thing I regret is that we're throwing pollen under our feet and we're talking about it, but there's only one thing to do: find out the actual economy of this project. That's a first. Since Alenka already mentioned what former Minister Omerzel was, there was a whole series of ministers who were one for this project, the other opposed; but Omerzel said, as far as I have here from Primorski Novosti, on 23 May, "there is no money, so the projected reviews of the second track project will not show that the value of the investment is not €1.4 billion, but €700 million." So what we've been told is that we can deny it. However, we must not forget one important element for the development of this second track and for the development of Slovenia, because in fact the second track is not our coastal project, but I think we should all take it as all-Slovenian, if not pan-European. It has already been said that there are very many stakeholders in these Central European countries who see great potential in development and Luke Koper and the second track and this rail corridor, which is very important for these Central European countries, and I will not mention them. But there is also another option or, I will say, even conspiracy theory, as far as these matters are concerned, and this is that some countries, including neighbouring countries, do not want to see Slovenia become one of the players here. And here to talk about links that the priorities of Trieste or Trieste are something else, I think we need to be very careful about these issues. But with the Slovenians, as far as I have seen now that I have entered into this policy, there is an extraordinary interest in such a partial, clientistic approach and understanding what state- and state-of-the-art means to any of the things, let's say. And then it's this unfortunate greed that has clouded the minds of individual people and everything they should have in their places. Important in this matter, as I said before, is the economy of the project to see if it is really sustainable or not. That's one thing. The second issue is extremely important and here I also appeal to the Minister, this connection with Luka Koper, with the leadership of Luka Koper and the Slovenian Railways. These three must act in an extremely coordinated manner, because if each one will draw on his own side, which is a typical feature of the Slovenians, us, to pull each other to our own side and then lose that focus where we should go, then we lose energy, time and money. And time is our enemy here. We have also found this because commodity flows are relentlessly looking for opportunities and looking for the optimal option where they will go. If it is not in Cyprus, it will be either in Trieste or in the River and we must not allow it, because I think that Koper is also at this point far ahead of both ports, even before Venice, if you want to by looking at these numbers and everything, and also the partners, the great freight forwarders, speak and are very interested in coming and investing with Luka Koper further in development and everyone is saying that we have potential. The only enigma in this matter is the role of Slovenian Railways. I couldn't see it here, even though I have to admit that they just stepped in and gave me all the available information that they have with them, which I have to thank them for, but I still haven't felt that Slovenian railways want not only updates, but also this second track and that they are somehow more actively involved in this project, which I think is important to them as well. Once again, I would like to draw attention to the statistics we have received regarding the load of the Division of Divac-Koper. Here I noted something: "Regular maintenance works are performed only on Mondays, which according to the burden of the track is not enough. Regular maintenance works can no longer be maintained in such a form without the provision of safe and orderly transport. Because of the exploitation of the single line of transport, this must be constantly and there is a great danger that the system will collapse." The following issue, the capacity of the Koper-Divič route is 72 train compositions, 72 trains, while the statistical maximum number of trains from September is the Koper-Divič line, 74 to 80. So we've already exceeded the maximum tolerance here. All statistics show that this is really necessary. So you don't have to argue here not to talk about how and what you should do, but it's really what Tillen Christmas said, but it's important now. I appeal to you again, Minister, you know that the coast is extremely nervous about this second track, and the various answers that will not be concrete are difficult to accept on the coast. You also need to understand that we all want just one thing, and that is to get it started as soon as possible. Let it be done in stages, let it be done, say, five kilometers, two kilometers, three kilometers, whatever, just to do something. For the draw track may be some option, I don't know, but we have to start with some action, because otherwise all talk about this priority through all the governments is free. We really have to do this because otherwise the food flows will pass us around and, as has been said, it is difficult to get back into these corridors. And even in 2020, if I am not mistaken, this corridor will flow and if we do not make all these standards and parameters, we will burn. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Dr. Peter Gasperšič, Minister of Infrastructure, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u40	Thank you very much. For a short time, I would respond to what was now said to be done, even though it was only two or five miles [2 or 5 km] away. This is the most dangerous thing that we can actually do on this project to go, I'll say, after the pieces we do, and we're not able to do this whole thing, because then we're going to build something, and it's not going to work, and we're going to expose ourselves to further risks, blackmail, the project gets out of control, financially and on time. In short, there's something worse we can't really afford on this project. It is crucial that we ensure the feasibility of the project as a whole, because it is only then that it will perform its function, and for the project as a whole we will also provide a financial structure. This is what we must strive for, and I agree, of course, that we must work to the full on these things. But the worst and unacceptable thing would be actually a project to cut, make certain pieces, and then hope for how and when the matter will be fully filled in, because then we are exposed to all the risks that mean and annexing these parts, uncontrolled irritations – I think we have already had enough examples in history so that this is not the way to deal with things. I hope we don't do this, at least I wouldn't do it that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr. Marko Ferruga has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u42	Thank you. I'm sorry if I may have said it wrong, but I just wanted to tell you what they told me in Luke Koper's leadership: we need some clear signal that this will actually go on because both you and Luke Koper want to increase these overloads. You have to step in here together and show it because the big shipping people want to have some assurance that it's actually going to be. We actually, and you don't have much blame for this here, but for 25 years, it's been said that it's gonna be, it's gonna be. These food flows, this is what I want to tell you that these food flows are going to be diverted and then the game is over for everyone, and then we're just going to be one of the smaller bows and lights that don't play a role, some provincials and that. We need to be ambitious and we want to actually have a port that will be trendsetter, one that will lead here at this work, because we have all the conditions for that to be. This is important that then and the trans-shipment develops and the country will also have from this and that new interested freight forwarders and large shipowners are coming to us and then we will actually start working with this start. Then these are the multiple factors that exist and all these things. There's actually a lot of stuff here. As soon as those real signals come from the field, then you know we're on the right track. Otherwise, it's all free of charge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u44	Thank you. I would like to respond to the debates and perhaps first to the Minister's warning that it is not advisable to build on works, so that there is also a specific question. I hope that the application submitted for the issue of the building permit is a whole section. This is very important information. If we are talking about building permits for the whole section, we are talking about the whole track or the whole investment. The next thing I want to respond to is when the minister talks about important investments in Slovenia. But Mr. Minister, look, the second track, you say, we need to think about energy recovery, then we need to think about building, say, hydro power plants – I think you've been saying. I would expect the Minister of Transport to point out, in addition to the third indent, the extension of the first, second but certainly the third pier is one of the largest investments, a state spatial plan has been adopted allowing Luka Koper to adopt, after construction, not from the current 17.9 million tonnes, but from 35 to 40 million tonnes if the third terminal is built or extended first or second. So Luka Koper is planning and the country has also adopted a state spatial plan to increase capacity from 17 million tonnes to 35 to 40. But, Minister, you don't mention this as an important investment, which really sets off the alarm that the second track isn't exactly the kind of investment that would sit in the Ministry's top priority. In addition, colleague Ferruga spoke about economic eligibility, but again he did not respond. But look, even in the material I have submitted to this debate on purpose, I have also provided some analyses of the economic sector that say that the investment is economically justified. If we also owe a 5% interest rate, after 30 years of this one billion Slovenia will contribute two and a half billion euros. If we are in debt with a 3% interest rate, there will be 3.3 billion Euros from one billion in Slovenia. In addition, we need to know that the European Investment Bank is offering us a loan at a 1% interest rate! And why are we not taking this into account in this economy? Why do we not take this into account that at least 50% of European funding can be obtained as grants? And the financial structure is relatively simply completed. Indeed, as expected by the economy, make a call for works already, as other countries do; first they start building and then they apply for European funds and, of course, they are guaranteed that they will get the money. It's even bigger than if it's somewhere in the beginning. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u45	Peace, please. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u46	I'd say it's still completely unclear when the investment starts. [[…]] So, only an investment can be relatively easily closed or closed with financial resources, but, Mr Minister, I have not heard from you today the possibility that you are willing to discuss other forms of financing, except public-private partnership. That is why we have heard that even without public funds, 97% of the funds must be made available by the State if someone wants to go with 7% as a private person, and this means that in these 30 years, when he expects this investment to be paid back, we will subsidise EUR 32 million annually to that private person. So if we rent a loan with a 1 % interest rate, we pay these liabilities with dividends paid by Luka Koper, with the concession paid by Luka Koper, and also with the utility paid by Slovenian Railways. When the minister talked about that, because if there's no second track, Luka Koper will still be. Of course it will! But it will redirect its cargo to Trieste and it will create a problem with Slovenian railways. Slovenian railways undoubtedly generate 40% of their realisation by transport – or 60 – from Luka Koper. And in fact, if there is no Luke Koper, if there is no second track, pardon, if there is no second track, then you can actually sign off Slovenian Railways. Freight traffic will then no longer be profitable, it will be a big addict, if I may say so, from state resources, but if this is built, it is one of the most profitable, profitable companies in Slovenia. And why should it not, however, start to happen in a way that Luka Koper is one of the most important and profitable companies and that Slovenian freight railways are also one of the most profitable companies that actually run across the country. When we talk about so-called industrialisation – yes, look, when we have a cargo heading to Luka Koper, we have all the information that the European economy needs. If we can't recalculate and interrupt this and say that it can also be built and done in Illyrian Bistrica, this can happen in Gorenjska, Kočevska, Dolenjska, Prekmurje, Štajerska Short, we have all the options, let's take advantage of it! All the information you get is what the European economy needs, right through this cargo.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Daniel Krivec has the floor. Mr Jernej Vrtovec, Mr Primož Hainz.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to all present, especially to the Minister! In the introduction, the minister said that the second track was needed and the priority of this government. However, in view of the debate, I am quite in doubt whether everyone believes this. During his discussion, the Minister also had a lot of, I would say, moving away from this issue, which he had originally said; just when he was comparing other projects that are completely outside the infrastructure area. It noted that 98 % of the land has already been obtained; it is said that 2 % is still missing. Given that we all know that placing in our country is a difficult matter, I also strongly doubt his second claim that a construction permit will be obtained in the second year. I would really like this to happen, but 2%, or 0.5%, or even a small fraction of some land that is not acquired, can be a very large obstacle here, and also a later obstacle when we decide to re-apply these projects to the European Union's funds. That is why I would like to see this actually accelerated, because only one parcel can be at the end of the obstacle, even since the Minister has made it clear that this project cannot even be implemented in stages. Later he talked a lot about the invitations we applied for. In most people's opinion, just for form, we didn't even believe that we could get anything. It speaks of the possibility that we will be able to obtain funds from these remnants of envelopes below — I have to say that I only hope that this will be possible, but there is no guarantee here. Secondly, there was a lot of talk about how these projects could be financed. However, if we look at little practice in the area, most of the infrastructure, which is strictly infrastructure, we are talking about railways, roads, maybe others, are building countries in one way or another, with such or other instruments. For example, if we go for Croatian highway construction, we know that this is a concessional relationship, not a public-private partnership. In the case of the second track, reaching the concession probably means a little more effort and giving concession to the whole railway network, which was already an experiment in the past, but obviously the case was not mature enough at the time. Public-private partnership has already been mentioned by colleague Weber that it is probably only through VAT, which can be justified or unjustifiable in the case of various instruments that we can somehow obtain that part of private in this investment. If we touch on this other problem, mentioned by our colleague Bratuškova, regarding the level of this project, I myself was present at the hearing of my colleague Omerzel, who, in the previous term, spoke of a significant reduction in this investment, but unfortunately in one year we did not have a single document on the table that would in any way attach to it. On the other hand, everyone is now saying how they stand for the second track, but in the negotiations with the European Union, with regard to the new financial perspective of this signal to the European Union, even with one fact, I would say that we have not indicated. In the new envelopes, which we have from the negotiation of new financial resources in the perspective of 2014-2020, we have allocated at least the infrastructure. So that the words of the colleague of Bratuškova are a little bit on their toes, as the current minister would have said, responsible or could have done much more. The very frameworks that have been negotiated do not even enable him to do so. Previously, it was very well said that the fifth corridor and part of this second track is only one part of one of the more difficult sections between Kopro-Cradac and the continuation. But we all know that from Divaca forward we can still drive with speed and axle load, which does not even meet the TNT threshold criteria. So, for nothing, if we're only talking about one department, if we can't see the whole thing. I think we're gonna have to talk about this a lot more. We have another big problem, we're all talking about the need to make a decision and so on and write it down somewhere. I believe what colleague Marko said earlier that in all the strategies in the past there was a second track, but the railways were inside, but apparently those who implement strategies that are operational do not read it. I would not have launched myself 25, 30 years ago, as the historical framework has always been very plastic, but we could have spoken since we had the opportunity to obtain European funds through this new instrument of TNT networks, and this is what we have been saying since Slovenia's entry into the European Union since the abolition of borders and this period somewhere since 2000, or if we have been more concrete since 2004 when we placed ourselves in these European corridors, there have been quite a few things done on this project since then. I think that the state site plan was adopted somewhere in 2005, 2006 and since then this has also been the basis for the situation to be placed in a manner and that land can also be obtained as a result of, of course, a building permit, which is one of the most serious conditions so that we can even discuss the financing of such projects at European level. We all know that the project was somehow set up a long time ago, when the highway program expired, and it was also designed from the point of view of construction very rich, including from the point of view of equipment. That is why I still believe that the estimates of this investment amount are quite high and that this 400 is actually this extreme limit and that it would probably be possible to reduce this project significantly for the assessment of these project conditions and everything. These are elements that are clearly, with the marginal conditions that were put in place at the time, also highly ranked from the point of view of the investment itself and are likely to be complemented or modified at this stage. Speaking of railways and this second track, I hope you are all aware that there is no problem here with the flow of this second track, the track itself, the complexity, the inclination and so on, but here is another great moment that hinders the greater flow, and this is the power supply of our rail system. You all know that we are practically an island in the middle of Europe, perhaps one part of Italy still has a power supply of 3 kilovolts one-way, all European countries with a supply voltage of 25 kilovolts alternately. This also causes great problems in terms of logistics. This route would allow for a substantial increase in permeability if, even after energy capacity, it was covered in the same way as for a modern route. When we talk about some investments, sometimes we just forget that there are many other problems on the other hand on the railways that should be eliminated. If they had been removed, this permeability of the line would probably have been significantly better. It is true, however, that in the event of a major accident this means a pocket, it is said, there is no alternative and from this point of view I do not have any problems with the need for some parallel track or other track to be built. Before that, there were also talks about the priorities that Luka Koper has. I think that, compared to Trs and River, it has even larger ones than only those mentioned now. Both, Trieste and River, have practically completed their development, because in the back they have steep hills, the real expansion is not possible. The port of Koper, on the other hand, has an open space against the back and still has great potential for development. From this point of view, this location is certainly also more suitable in the long term for some new programmes. Earlier there was also talk about maintenance of this track, about regular maintenance works that are limited. However, they are limited from this point of view, as I said earlier, that this line in all technical elements is actually obsolete, especially from this point of view of the supply voltage, which prevents the faster movement of trains and also the higher number of trains on this track, which would mean that at certain times it is also empty and that maintenance is easier. It is a shame to talk about regular maintenance works on infrastructure, because we also have this problem on the whole infrastructure on the roads, and perhaps the best way to do so is on highways. Earlier, there had been a speech to be made that the importance of the second track should be recognized. I believe that all those of us sitting here are aware of that. All these years, we have also proved this through discussions, but I am not sure that the responsible or this government is fully aware of this. In the past, the Minister also had various statements on this issue, including various statements on the third development axis. He had great ambition to make a third belt against Vrhnika, but we found that he built anti-group fences, so I am not entirely sure that Minister Gasperšič always knows what he is talking about because something else has happened against Vrhnika. There's something else I'd like to point out. The previous reference was made to the OECD study by the Minister and to this excuse for justification and inequitableness. I believe that, as an expert, he knows that justification and inequitableness on infrastructure is a very broad concept. He himself said that the neighbouring countries, both Italy and Austria, did not even look back on these studies, but were building their infrastructure just so that these surpluses, which would be created, would later be cashed and excused for a study. We all know that in roads there is a basic condition that something, some PLDP, is said to be the number of vehicles transported in a time unit, but if the road is not, if the road is wrong, we cannot achieve it. There's a similar case here. It is true that we can ask ourselves whether there will be a third pier or another three first, but if it is a decision that we need the infrastructure that will allow for some developmental breakthrough of this area and of the wider country, and that we need logistics in this country, then not one and not the other should be questions, but just some goal that we must achieve as soon as possible. The intermediate phase identified by the OECD also speaks of a back-up terminal. I don't see any problem with that. I think that it has also been said in the past that Slovenia is an important factor in terms of logistics, and the back-end terminal does not rule out a second track in any sense, so this is no excuse for this solution. However, we have a problem because we do not have a country's energy strategy or transport strategy, and probably elsewhere I do not talk about health care, or we have some documents that no one reads. Every year, the new authorities or new officials would like to write a new strategy, a new study, and so on. I think we have a significantly bigger problem here than just to come to a solution and implement this second track and also to redesign it appropriately if I am now purely direct or to look at it in terms of financial sustainability. As I said at the outset, whoever looks at this project finds that it's actually richly dimensional or too rich, if I'm purely direct, so I believe there's a lot of reserves in here. But two things are important to me. The fact that the building permit is indeed obtained, not when it will, because this 2% of the land is not such a negligible information as the Minister has said. Without a building permit, I don't think there can be any European source at this point. And secondly, to really decide whether we want to build it, whether we need it or not, we have found that yes, but whether we want to do it, and in a suitable way. It's probably the source of this, if the decision's solid, they'll find it. I think today's debate will be useful, and I also believe from this point of view that it is not a dilemma whether the track is needed or not. Whether this is a priority or not, I am not quite sure about the debate so far.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Jernej Vrtovec has the floor to prepare Mr Primož Hainz, Mr Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u50	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! In this assembly, we clearly agree that the second track is needed. Mr Minister also agrees. We only have a problem of agreeing – and here, thank God that we have this problem – how we will finance this second track or project. Here in this place, Mr. Minister, a hat down because you are about whether the country should go to this project of 1.4 billion euros or that without a private partner you are going to build just a little bit to oppose it, a hat down, because otherwise TES 6 can follow the story that is known. At this point, I must agree with you that you are also, whether reasoned or not, in any way, opposed to these desires within the coalition. Here in the opposition, as far as it's concerned, you won't have a problem. As for the other problems you have in defending the 2nd indent project, you are initially responsible for this. I don't buy that as an expert who knows about this project, you were a secretary of state, and so on, you went just a little bit on the nose to think of talking at hearing, ah, and that's what we're going to need in 30, 40 years, and it's only today that you've found that you've turned out to be new indications that you were wrong at the time. You didn't know exactly what you were saying, and in a certain element, you were right, not at all, given what the OECD study says. And here I see this gap between you and the members of the coalition, not even the opposition, but you, the OECD study, which you have recently paid for, give it 160,000 euros, buy it, while members of the coalition, at least some, don't buy it, reject it. But what's so important about this study? The study doesn't say that we don't need another track to make the second track not okay. Far from it. Don't fool the public that the OECD study says this just because we don't like everything that's foreign. The OECD study, the ITF, of the OECD International Transport Forum, says that this is a major financial risk. That's the first thing. And it's a risk when we're talking about the 1.4 billion-euro project. Yeah, that's true, actually, because we don't know how this project will cover 1.4 billion euros. And when we are talking about a private partner, Mr Minister, I ask you what I have already asked you at the hearing and then later in the discussions on this subject, what are you suggesting to this private partner, the investor, in exchange for helping us build this track. And say this now here before this assembly, otherwise you do not go out of the National Assembly, for this blinding is slowly enough, but also from your side. If you swear that we need a private partner, okay, then tell him what we're going to give him in return, because no one's so crazy that he's going to help us build the track, and he won't know what he's going to get. But if you think we're gonna get a private partner after we start building, you're wrong, and I hope you're not listening to members of the coalition. Furthermore, what else does the ITF say, including with regard to the business model Luke Koper, restructured by Luke Koper. If I am not mistaken, these days it is said that Luka Koper is even thinking — I just ask — that she should even consider buying a wine company and so on. Wait, Luka Koper could give money somewhere other than some other business opportunity. But at SDH, in the country you run, is how Luka Koper is going to do business and where she's going to invest. The OECD points out in its reservation what kind of business model Luka Koper, whose majority owner is a country, expects appropriate optimization, resolution of various business doubts and placements. At the same time, I would like to add importance to the fact that we have to talk about the second track in the sense that it is a regional project and as a regional project involving other European Union countries, Hungary, Slovakia, Poland, Austria, even the Baltic States, if you wish, must participate actively in this project, because otherwise you can forget all the CEF funds and all the European funds. I recommend that you contact Hungary and maybe run together on these calls. It is therefore necessary to connect as soon as possible with those countries which are of strategic importance that the second track will be. So we can't talk about the second track just because of Luke Koper, but we're talking about a regional project. At the same time, when we are talking about the second track, we must also talk about the third pier or the construction of a new pier, or, as some civil initiative says, about the new channel, instead of the pier, because the capacity of the port of Koper will also be limited if it does not also pray with the second track. This goes in parallel and you must also give an appropriate answer to this dimension as to how it is to build this. The fact is, in this logistics game, we are being rushed by neighbouring countries. We have already discussed this on the committees and we do not need to discuss it now, but let us talk about how we will get the closure of the financial work, the financial structure as soon as possible. Once again, those Semmerings, Pontebba, are all major infrastructure projects. Here is the problem that these countries don't want to outrun us, because our infrastructure, which is our window into the world, our roads, railways, if you want, reminds Austria 30 years ago. If you're just comparing that we needed to update or remedy the consequences of a year and a half ago, it's all about how we're capable of doing one stone for European projects, and for us it's a very big problem. A year and a half to electrify the Divača-Koper line! That's a little funny. It is funny that we are a country that is not capable of ensuring normal conditions. If you don't mind, I'd like to say that. Right now, I feel like the government is having some sort of a mix-up about what we're going to do. While we are talking about February, so you spoke six months ago, issuing a building permit to run for European funds to look for a foreign investor, we have a problem not knowing whether this project is really worth 1.4 billion euros or not. Which is why I'm asking, how's the review of this evaluation? Is that really 1.4 billion euros? So let's do the order, what we're going to do first. First, of course, we need to review whether the estimated value is real or not. And if it's not real, let's start working on other assumptions, rather than, let's just say, once again, fall into TER 6, let's approach things more carefully. For in the end it is the taxpayers who will pay it. Finally, I've read it once before, but Otto Pestner kind of coincides with the second track when he says, "I've been standing at the station for days and weeks and years waiting like so many others on the train coming. The eye is attached to the windows, to the door of the wagon, and I realize I've been dreaming for 30 years." We've been dreaming about the second track for 20 years, but we'll also be waiting for 30, as it turns out. Minister, I believe you're having a hard time, but at the same time, don't fool yourself that you didn't know at the hearing, what you were saying, and we're not really going to dream about the second track for 30 years. Let's do all the procedures as soon as possible, not on the door to the nose, but let's just start getting everything we need to get to this construction, of course, on the pre-condition that the financial structure is closed. Not something to do in this country, as a custom has already become, for TER 6 is still a living story, an overpaid highway cross is also a living story. Of course, we have to be careful here. I do not agree with the fact that the State would invest in this project without knowing how much financial resources and, of course, the taxpayers would, of course, fix all of this together, as usual. But I wish you a successful run at the next call. You know what happens if you fail at all predictions. Although I'm not threatening you, I wish you all the best, but the questions are mainly in this part of the hall, not in this part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr Primož Hainz has the floor. Get Mr. Tomaž Gantar ready, Mrs. Mag. Lilliana Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u52	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State. Of course, I will not recite poems or poets, nor will I talk much about the economy, because of course I am not an economist. The fact is that I did not see the text which would not believe that the second track, that is, the railways we are talking about, is necessary for the development of the Slovenian economy on the relationship between Kopro and, say, Vienna, that is, Central Europe. Of course, I don't think there's any doubt here. Of course, I see the matter simply politically. I see it in the context of some actually advocating for the sale of Slovenian property, according to some neoliberal theory and, of course, under the sign of Christianity, we are sometimes quoted by Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia. Of course, I must say that the interviews we had with representatives of the Czech Parliament, the conversations we had with representatives of the Slovak Parliament, the two of us convinced us not to sell your property, because now that we have sold everything, we are barely buying back all that to satisfy the minimum social conditions of life with us. Of course the same goes for the Poles. In Poland, you saw, a few months ago, they were bragging about how their GDP had grown, I think, 27 to 23 000 euros, so GDP per capita, I don't say, I apologize for round figures, but the fact is that they themselves found out that the Poles had almost nothing or very little, because all the cream, as we used to call it, went abroad. And only in this context do I see the question of Luke Koper, which I must say is that it will not be the second track or very late, then Luka Koper will be cheap, someone will buy it, if possible, as some require, foreign capital. Of course, we have sold something again, or we will give something away, which we should not do in the long run. Through this political context, of course, I see that things do not happen at Luka Koper, but this requirement after construction is very old, not to say that, of course, the possibility of going on the road means suffocation and horrifying stimulation of every cargo that goes into or comes into Luka Koper. Of course, that's not what I said. Then, Your Honor, I think you'll make a project that will work. I do not believe that we have no people, I do not believe that we have no arguments, and I do not believe that we would not find this energy, so that the second track project in this context, i.e. the Central European connection, would succeed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Gantar has the floor to prepare himself for the mag. Lilliana Kozlovich, for her Mr Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u54	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Say good-bye again to all, Minister, to the rest of you! Actually, I'm a little confused about this debate. On the one hand, of course, we are all here who discussed and were in the Chamber, including the Minister, some advocates of the second track. On the other hand, many doubts remain in the air that this is actually a priority government project. I must say that I am sorry, but every time you explain the arguments, it seems to me that you are getting involved in the matter, that it is even less likely that this project will actually happen, that you are not entirely convinced that this project is meaningful and that we are also able to carry it out. I will not repeat with debate most of what has been said, not our view of the Group of Members, who, of course, advocates this project and sees it as meaningful and necessary. And I personally believe that, for the development of the port of Luka Koper as well as for the development of logistics in Slovenia, Luke Koper connects with the backdrop of the key or essential importance. And the fact is that all this potential of Luke Koper without a second track will simply not be possible to exploit. Of course that means Luke Koper won't go out tomorrow. However, it means that this will in some ways become one minor port in battle, which is in force on this market, which is definitely increasing. We know that there is an extra tube or, as it is called, the Suez Canal and so on. So the interest in this type of overload is undoubtedly great. This is also the subject of data on the increase in transport, not least the increase in transport in Cyprus, the economic crisis and all the problems in the past years, despite. Recently we had another meeting in the Chamber of Commerce in Cyprus, I think this month, where also the president of the section of Slovenian spies at the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, Mr Čedomir Bojanič said that we will simply not have any problem with the railway in 2020, because we will not need it because the traffic will be diverted, freight traffic and, of course, we will not really need another track anymore. If, of course, we continue to communicate also externally and signal that there will be no other track. And so far, we've been working more or less in this direction. I have not yet heard a very clear assurance, whether it be you, as well as the government or the Prime Minister, that someone will come to the people and say, look, whatever it is, the second track, the procedure is like this, we will do it after some scheduled deadlines. But it's not said, we're talking about the second track, and at the same time we've been exposing all the problems we've been having here, and we're not really being credible at all, we've been talking about the second track for almost 20 years, and we can't be. Why isn't there a decision on the second track? Now, let's leave the problems that have been with obtaining the building permit, and I believe they will be resolved. The main problem is obviously because we don't have a closed financial structure. So, in this case, we are looking for a private partner for a public-private partnership that will invest a significant part of the funds. Here, too, I fear that illusion or expectation is too great. Even in the view of Dr. Ellen Twrdy's deceiving of the Faculty of Transport at this meeting, it has been made clear that finding a strategic partner in this way is nonsense or just an excuse for nothing to happen. I personally think that the expectation of one such public-private partnership is rather utopian. First time. I think that in Slovenia there are such partnerships or to this extent we have practically not. On the other hand, if we look at the interest of foreign investors in Slovenia, it is said who would invest in Slovenia, and there is virtually not much of it. Because we have a lot of problems within us because we have bureaucratic procedures, long-term procedures, a low degree of trust, because they don't believe in the rule of law and probably a lot of it, so there's virtually no foreign investors. Where do you get your opinion or some sovereign belief that now we're going to get a private partner who's going to be 27 kilometers away or what I know exactly how much he is, invest and be willing to invest? I think it's completely unrealistic, and if we don't start talking about more real, more finished financial construction, of course we can say goodbye from the second track. I believe that if the decision is not taken very quickly, we will not really need it anymore. Another thing is that it is extremely important and there was virtually nothing to talk about. This is in fact a project of building the Trieste-Livic track. That's the fact, that's what the talks about. There are records. I believe whoever is in this business is also aware of this part of the project. It is hard to imagine that an investor who knows that another project, such as Trieste-Divača, would be willing to invest and enter into business with a country to invest in another track. This is not what we can expect, and this is the path that is supposed to be part of the Mediterranean corridor that connects ports in Spain, France, Italy, goes through Trieste, to Divaco, Sežana, Ljubljana, of course down to Budapest and then to Ukraine, this is the Mediterranean corridor. I believe that it is indeed going here because last year the EGIS railway association Trieste was established in Rome with its seat in Trieste. It is interesting that the founder of this company, this association in addition to the Italian railways, is Reta Ferroviaria Italiana, also our DRI, is said to be the director of infrastructure development with Mr Kač at the moment. Thus, they are the responsible partner in this company responsible for this section of the line, and the commitment of Slovenia, at least yesterday I looked through the internet and looked for it, is clear that by the end of this year the State Spatial Plan for this section of the line was adopted by the end of this year. This is written down, it can be miswritten, but the exact chronology has been recorded on websites since the establishment of the company. If this is true and Slovenia's commitment is clear, then we probably cannot expect this second track because it will happen sooner. I understand that if this is true, I would understand Italy's interest that there would be no second track because competition between ports is quite great. But here I do not understand Slovenia's passivity in this project because it actually goes to the detriment of Luka Koper and also works our port or this area of economy in Slovenia. And on the one hand, I find it interesting that, even in these debates, you too, the Minister, these options and these variants have never been mentioned as if there is no one. While it is essential or essential for this second track. The project is clearly assessed, prepared, the value of this project Trst-Divič is about 300 billion, the Slovenian share is estimated at about 300 million, this is all written down, so these are numbers that I do not make up. And if that's the case, then there's no doubt it's going to be a project the second track is going to get ahead of. And Luke Koper, because there is no connection to this work, remains like a appendix, so left to her fate in a way that can be expected. By doing so, he loses any opportunity to maintain the position of one of the most important ports in the northern part of the Adriatic. So all the assurances that it actually represents a second priority are hard to believe. Therefore, I now expect that, if we are serious about the second track, we will stop talking about public-private partnership, at least in the way that has been presented so far, because I really do not think that there is any smart perspective, but that we will start preparing a concrete financial structure. Finally, even if there are doubts about economic eligibility, re-check these calculations. I believe that all the multiple effects of one project, such as Luka Koper, are difficult to take into account in one analysis of the situation, but it also seems to me, although I am from a completely different area, that favouring some rear terminal cannot actually represent a solution, I also find it difficult to imagine just hundreds or thousands of trucks between, I don't know, Koprom and Divino, there on the highway, all the burdens, destruction of roads and the environment and everything that belongs to it. So someone can do this, come up with a proposal that just doesn't live here and he's not here, he doesn't have the slightest concern and he doesn't care. I expect here, first of all, a really clear answer regarding the link between Trieste and the role of DRI in this, the DRI has – this is also published on their website, among other things, this link for one of the priorities. DRI is not someone who works through everyone and across the country, I think not, and the second track is their job after all. And, of course, once again, a clear assurance that the second track represents the priority of this government, with a slightly clearer definition, even a time-frame, because otherwise the new corridors will be set and distributed, I think in 2023, we will start to lose traffic, too much earlier if it is not clear to everyone that we will do so and that we want to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Dr. Peter Gasperšič, Minister of Infrastructure, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would just like to ask this question about the link between Trieste and Divec, there was no talk here, because the matter is not, in my opinion, very connected with the project that we are talking about today – about the second track. In fact, this project is a project where both countries, Slovenia and Italy talk about the possibility of upgrading, capacity building on this link. To this end, this association was also established, where the DRI leads the project case on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia. The case is also supported by European funds to co-finance these studies, this placement in space. On the subject of this project, there was also a question already raised by the distinguished German Member in this National Assembly, where I have also talked about this, namely, the issue of putting into space on this route. However, I must say that this project does not, in fact, have some bright future, because the Italian side has somehow assessed that the trans-shipment needs do not demonstrate the eligibility to build a new track, but rather are decisions to modernise the existing link. This is also how the project is now trying to continue in this direction. So we are not talking about a priority link that would be established here, which could in any way compete with our connection from Kopra to Divača and then onward. Each, as is now the case, i.e., on the Italian side, the priorities are not focused on strengthening and increasing capacity on this relationship. So much for a while, in that sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomaž Gantar has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u58	Thank you very much. You mentioned that there was some fluctuation of Italy or concerns about whether or not we would go into this project. But don't you think it's a very important argument here again or a factor that affects whether we get a private investor or not? Because two tracks at a distance, say, 30, 40 kilometers, which private investor would decide if they were preparing a project for him to take part in that bulkhead, or whatever. So it's hard to say that the projects are unrelated. However, the fact that this link to the second track was not envisaged at the outset and then in 2011 the Italians withdrew because they did not agree because the second track was not in their interest, clearly.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The speaker has the floor, Mr Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u60	Thank you. I think that here is the key to the answer why the second track is not classified as a real and real priority in Slovenia. Here I have to tell the Slovenian public, and also to all of you, I have been involved in drafting a coalition agreement on transport, at which time Mr Yuri Kač, Director General of the Infrastructure Development Society, was present, and he expressly objected to us entering this into a coalition contract, that is to say the construction of the second track that I requested in those negotiations at the time. Yuri Kač expressly objected to this coming into the coalition contract. I just want to reinforce what has now been exposed, if we solve this problem, I am sure that the second track will be built in a very short time.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Minister Peter Gasperšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Now I really don't know, you've completely lost me, I don't know what kind of problem we have to solve here, and what the project Trst-Devil has to do with solving our problem, the second track project. In fact, Trieste-Civil does not compete in any way with the second track unless, of course, the Koper-Trst link is established, and then we have an alternative branch. However, the neighbouring country obviously does not pay any attention to this connection and, as such, obviously will not cause any competition. For the transfer from Luke Koper to the interior, I really don't see the possibility of endangering our project in this connection. Except, once again, if we start talking about the connection between Koper and Trieste, which has been opening up lately, we know that this is actually something, but we can prevent ourselves from being competitive and from being attracted to the second track. But I think that these connections are still very, very far away, significantly longer than the realization, as we have a second track project, where we have a so-called building permit, and other connections are being placed in space, but we know what that means, both for us and for Italy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u64	The answer, Minister, has already been given to you by Mr. Gantar. It will be difficult to obtain a private investor if we know that another track is being prepared in parallel. On the other hand, it is also good to read Luke Koper’s point of view — if he wants to survive and if there is no other track, he must move toward Trieste. He needs to divert to Trieste. And they're even willing to fund the line against Trieste if there's no other track connection at the appropriate level. In addition, in the course of all this debate, I would like to draw attention once again to the security aspect that I referred to in the introductory part. At this point, we may be in an accident on the Koper-Friendway due to some natural issues or, otherwise, to the technical durability of the structure. There could be technical malfunctions. At that moment, Luke Koper gets cut off from the world. At this point, Luka Koper is becoming completely uncompetitive to all the other ports. At that point, Slovenia wasted its geostrategic position, its access to the sea, the fact that we are a maritime state. This can happen to us now. Are we aware of that? If we are aware of this, Mr Minister, we would have made a substantial difference in this project and today we would certainly be able to talk about whether the construction had started or whether the private would have decided to invest or not.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Minister Peter Gasperšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Madam President. One more time. In the case of Trieste-Girl connection, this is not a new route. We are talking about updating the increased capacity of the existing link. I really do not want the focus of today's debate to be lost and some kind of fog to be brought to the debate on the second track with this project, which has no real connection and virtually no impact. As to how Luka Koper is solving his risks, whatever happens on the existing track or the risk that the construction of the second track will not take place for some time. I think that thinking about looking for a link against Trieste is significantly more risky for the further development of the economy in us than thinking about the back terminal. If we were looking for alternatives from the point of view of Luke Koper, we'd rather head to the back terminal than the link to Luke, to Trieste. In this sense, I really would not want us to get out of our problem now, that is to look for a solution, to finance a second track, to ensure that this project is implemented as soon as possible. Once again, we are talking about financing solutions. Technically, we will be prepared with a building permit in the following year, and we can say that the beginning of the construction is practically just outside the door, as we have already issued a call for the selection of the contractor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u68	These warnings given by Mr Gantar and I are very well-intentioned. Look again, Mr. Secretary, if you don't understand what this is all about. The Director of the Infrastructure Development Society, Mr Jurij Kač, cannot run the Trst-Divič project and can also be involved in advising you whether the construction of the second track will begin or not. Let's decide what you're gonna do, what's the DRI priority. And at that point, the problems will be solved.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u69	Once again, Minister Peter Gasperšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u70	Thank you very much. I am truly sorry that we are wasting the valuable time of this debate on this issue, but once again I stress that this project is about studies, placements in space and such matters, where the DRI is actually carrying out these tasks for the Ministry and DRI is involved as a partner in this project, not Mr Kač, in any case, but the DRI company that performs these tasks for the Ministry, also, says, the preparation of projects, placement in space, is leading these matters to the ministry in the vast majority of the DRI projects. As far as I am aware of this project, he is inside as a representative of society, not Mr Kač, but Mr Profina, if I am not mistaken. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u71	The speaker has the floor, Mr Janko Weber. Then we'd give the word "magic." Lilliani Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u72	Once again very briefly. Even now, international lobbyists have decided to invest in the port of Trieste because they have followed the OECD study and also the view of the Ministry of Transport that this is not exactly a priority. And they also know well that at the moment that they will turn against Trs, Koper will start to fall and, of course, there will also be less interest and actually economic injustice, what you point out, Minister, the construction of the second track. And all traffic will go through Trieste and through this route in which the Slovenian company DRI participates. It even leads and coordinates the work for this. And of course it is of interest that the second track is not built, because all traffic from Luke Koper will then be diverted to Trieste and across this track. And there will be profits for the railways, for the port of Trieste and for all who will participate in this project.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Lilliana Kozlovich, Mr Matjaž Han, followed by Dr. Matej Tašner Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u74	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Dear Minister, when you took over the Ministry of Infrastructure, you have taken on one of the most difficult tasks in our country and, of course, also the responsibility for its implementation. But most of all, because it has been 25 years since this issue of the construction of the second track, or the modernisation of the railway, divides Slovenian politics, as we see it today. However, in this debate, when I listened to it, I found Mr Vrtovac's debate most objective, which I think is very realistic and objectively telling me how it is necessary to approach the matter. In fact, this dynamic that we were talking about, that we should really intensify it. Let me point out once again that it is 25 years, and I will not go into the period of Mr Pertinja, like my colleague Marko, because this was mainly about the construction of the railway itself, but we were aware as early as 1991, but today we are in 2015, and certain things have been done, but not sufficiently, that we should take full responsibility today for the Minister of Infrastructure, the current one. Already in 1991, we decided that the maritime state and clearly stated that priority is also the second track. Important, however, is the most important document in 1995, when a national programme for the development of Slovenian railway infrastructure was adopted, which stated in the point that the second track would be built in 1998-2000. And as a clue to what my colleague Ferlug used to ask himself, where are the Slovenian railways, where is their responsibility? In fact, 12% of this national programme has only been implemented since 1995. And certainly it would have been significantly easier if it had been a commitment at the time, and we know that this project, we know that economic growth was different than today, would have been significantly easier to find the means to build a second track. It was not until 2004 that this became a European priority, then it is a mag. Anton Rop helped with this, and he also prepared a location plan. These were just concrete steps that had been taken, and it was formally adopted in 2005 under the government of Janez Janša. In 2010, we discussed this again, and in 2015, of course, our government took this as a priority as a transport development strategy in the Republic of Slovenia. It specifically referred to the second indent as a priority, including in the foreign policy declaration. So there is no doubt that the second track or I am more of a second track I am talking about the whole railway infrastructure. Because it's not enough to build another track. Once we build a second track, we'll have a problem ahead. We need to build the entire Slovenian railway infrastructure. It's not enough to talk about the second track. We should probably also discuss the responsibility for why this railway infrastructure has not been substantially updated before and, if so, some of the responsibilities of the railway and those responsible, I will also touch Luke Koper. We are aware, and already in the time of the Republic of Venice, of the fact that this is of strategic importance, this area is the shortest route to Central Europe. Because it is, every euro created by Luka Koper means every additional euro in at least 400 companies in our country, and therefore this project is not local. Indeed, we may be most persistent in this, but it is not local and we need to talk about it to everyone in the country. Each additional million transhipment in Luka Koper also represents an additional 500 jobs. Not to mention all the other multiplier effects, as far as taxes are concerned, of all the logistical support that this development entails. Its development has indeed been from the very beginning when it was established when the transit amounted to 2 % and in 15 years it had already amounted to one quarter of all transshipment and had increased from 4 million tonnes to 17 million tonnes since 1991. As has already been said, railways have 60% traffic from Luke Koper. Thus, Slovenian railways must also be aware of their responsibilities in the construction of infrastructure. The danger we talked about, not only is it to redirect, it's the worst danger of being diverted to other ports, one of the dangers of being diverted to roads. However, if we do not build this project by 2023 because it is installed, it is said that we have committed ourselves to ensuring certain standards of this corridor, and we have entered into two corridors and if this is not built by 2023 when this is assessed, it can happen that we will also lose that we will no longer be included in this corridor so that we do not talk about economic damage. Therefore, I say that it may have been a long time since there were funds, even at the time of the investment initiative in our country, probably a lot of possibilities for this to be built significantly easier. The burden of the railway on this route is 90 % daily exploitation, one of the most burdened railways. It is also a difficult mountain line, belonging to this category, and this growth index has been 153 % since 2009. However, passenger transport has fallen somewhat, even in recent years, in order to make freight traffic significantly easier. Steps were taken, and now we're just about to get a building permit. However, this last year has not only been done, it is said, not only has procedures been accelerated to obtain a building permit, but a number of other things have been done. Among other things, modernisation of the cargo station in Sermin, which certainly helps facilitate the flow. Modernisation of the existing track, which is now in the final stage, data show that the flow itself will be – previously said 58 trains are daily capacity or average, now somewhere between 74 and 80 in September. And it is this modernisation that will ensure the accuracy of 85 trains during the day. This is how we can talk about the great progress that has been made. But when this extraction track is built, this flow will go to 102 wagons. Thus, this is exceptional compared to what is currently possible, and this is a great addition to greater traffic flow. But if the second track is built, it's 120 more and we'll get to 222. What we're talking about right now is funding. In public, the government has one vision, and there are a lot of these visions of how this financing is supposed to be. So, the government was talking about a public-private partnership, and then I hear an international invitation to tender is being issued, and then a holding company is supposed to be set up to commit to a mandate contract with Dars. Then, one third is supposed to be bonds, one part of the investment bank. It seems to me that what has been said before, including what Mr Wrotec said about the OECD, is a risky project and we must act responsibly here when we decide how we will finance. It is therefore necessary to check within this project whether it is indeed not foreshadowed. And this is what was at the very beginning of the speech, whether this project is dangerous to the country and is foreshadowed. What is crucial to me is that, at the same time, the financial sustainability of this project must be verified. I think we also need to know what Luke Koper's development plan is. We are talking about today's situation, but it is important – and here I would like to, because I come from the coast and perhaps know more about what is actually going on, I would like to invite all actors at the local level, both Luca Koper and both municipalities, the Municipality of Koper and Ankaran, to cooperate with the Government as well as the railways. Indeed, we are witnessing that Luke Koper, it was said that SDH was the one who, the minister, could not get involved in business politics, because he would immediately be told that he was politically motivated or that he was unjustifiably doing so. I'm really wondering about the business model. If he invests in another company, they are willing to invest, as previously said, in the construction of the railway track to Trieste. This surprised me when I was at this meeting that Luka Koper, along with the City Hall and the railway, was ready to invest in the track to Trieste. I'm really wondering about the business model. I remember Istrabenz very well, who, instead of engaging in his activities, engaged in a purely different activity. We know where the matter ended up. And also local communities, I think the time has come when we have to stop fighting, who gets more money from Luka Koper, whether we allow the construction of the first pier or the third pier or this is going to be an ice canal. I also think that this reference to press conferences and that Luka Koper is working independently against the Government of some research and study, it does not seem constructive. I think all these players need to sit down and agree on how they're actually going to function, but, of course, they also see what the development potential is with Luka Koper. And let me say something else about this money we're getting for the municipalities for the degraded area. It seems fair to me that these funds would actually be for the population, because we have and we are right to have it, and that we are also developing it, but that these funds are then allocated to the population that suffers the most from the degraded area, not for any other purpose. And in the end, this is really my call for all of us to agree together, that we are aware of this strategic comparative advantage that we have. I am prepared with my powers and behaviour, even knowing the local situation, to help the minister and, of course, other colleagues, if it is necessary to move this matter forward so that partial interests are not realized, because I fear that there are too many partial interests in this whole story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Han has the floor to prepare Dr. Matej Tašner Vatovec, followed by Mr Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! If people are watching us on TV today and listening to our debates, they probably are asking themselves at home on the couch, but why is this debate at all, because you all support the construction of the second track, the minister supports the construction, the Members support the construction, Janko Weber, who initiated this debate, supports this construction of the second track, and we have been fighting for two and a half hours, how would we build it? And I will try to explain to people clearly and in plastic terms that they will understand why such a debate has taken place. The fact is, for 25 years we've been talking about this second track, and of course, the minister is the last one in this chain, that I'm going to say, I'm going to run into all this anger of all these people, and there was a bunch of ministers, a bunch of governments that did what they did. The only thing we all know and find out is that we don't have another track yet. But it is true – this is a criticism, and only the criticism of the minister – that the only minister for transport, financial yes, is for transport, which gives statements that jump out of some of the talks and arrangements so far and gives some bad impetus to this other track: but there is no need for public-private partnership, but we do not know, but we will, and we will not, and so on. This heading creates this confusion, and this is also the reason for this debate today. And the last question of why this debate has taken place is this strong OECD study. I'll say, in these studies, it's what you pay for and what you pay for, and that's what you get. Whatever you want, that's what you get. Today, economic and such experts write everything, so much costs, and then they can find economics or, I'll say, some formula that writes you a plus or a minus. In this case, they did it for my understanding. There is no way, we will not be asking any of us in Europe whether this is financially sustainable or financially sustainable. If Slovenia has decided to have a second track, we will have a second track. But I agree, here you are saying that it is not economically sustainable, yes, gentlemen, if we looked at everything that is economically sustainable in life, then we would not have this Parliament, we would not have it, then we would not have any social resources, then we would not have public schools, then we would not have public health because it is not economically sustainable. Let everyone pay as much as they can and it's over. And I just can't buy that and I can't. Then in Slovenia, we would not have water in the villages because it is not economically sustainable to drive water to five houses, but in the meantime to make one kilometer of water. It's not sustainable, ladies and gentlemen. It's not worth it. They'll be in the middle of nowhere. From this we can quickly overtake this economic logic in some way. And another problem, where there are great expectations, is, above all, but I do not want to perform now in terms of SD, SMC and so on, we do not fight, but there is a great expectation in the public, we have a minister, the President of the Government has given a clear signal, the second track is a priority project of this government, and if it is not, the SD will also be guilty of being understood, it will not only be SMC, I am aware if everything is good, I am there, where it is bad, but I am not – I am not. Secondly, we have great expectations from the Commissioner. We have a Commissioner for Infrastructure in Europe. Already at the Potočnik they taught me and taught me everything everywhere, the Commissioners do not work for the country they come from, the Commissioners work for Europe. Look, I don't just work for the Radeče Congregation either, but when there's a Radeče project for the congregation, I'm going to go for the Radeče Congregation or for Laška, and it doesn't matter whether I'm on the left or in the right government or I don't know where I'm going to go for it. And the expectations of the Commissioner and the expectations of you, Minister, are abnormal for us to reach this second track. Since 1996, we've just been talking, and now we're here for the first time since 96. Years before this may not even be worth it economically, and this is the key fault that I will be referring to you, Minister, but I know that you are one of the 16 ministers, that you have a finance minister above you, who I do not believe you have right on your side, or that he is on the side of those who would build such a thing, and that you can, in fact, remain here, that you have made statements about my notions that I would never have. Lilliana said, yes, if we just build the second track, what about the other railway? Lilliana probably doesn't know, but I have to say that Slovenian railways invested a lot during this period. Pragersko-Hodoš was a 100 million project, financed well. Now goes the Wall Bridge and Celje and in Slovenia we have knowledge in this area and work well. This will slowly build up, and this is no excuse for the second track not to start building. I agree that it is necessary to obtain a building permit for a complex part, in which I agree with the Minister. I agree, and I believe, that this 2%, even though Ferluga or someone said, I don't know, someone said, is not such a problem, 2% is going to get land, but the project needs to be evaluated in real terms. I have some information and I will tell it as I got it, and I will also say it further: the DRI on this billion 400 "handed up" without a problem 200, 300 million for some control, for the papers to fold and so on. These things can, of course, be reduced. And the country, it may not have a plus for this investment today, but it will certainly have it in the long run, Koper will have a plus, Luka Koper will have a plus, if we want to continue to upgrade the geostrategic position of Slovenia, we will be able to make logistics centres from this title. They'll come together slowly and Slovenia will be, when we've been out of politics for years, we'll have a plus. But if we decide today, and we're in trouble today, and we're not going into this investment today, it's going to be negative very quickly. You know, a friend of mine told me, we'd need a threesome to get here to build it. But you know what three he meant? Franz Joseph, Mary Teresa, and Titus. This troika would build such infrastructures very quickly, and we look at everything through some economic logic. The economic logic of some economists, who are known mainly for finance, what Janko Weber said, in NKBM was not a problem to throw away 800 million, we sold it for 200, it went to 600 million, I don't know where. Here's a big problem to invest a billion 800 or a billion 200. And there's one more thing. With this billion invested in this construction, we could get something else. Our construction sector, which will have relatively little work to do in the future, could recover from this project. We have building knowledge, we have enough builders who can build it in some way, even from this title this country would acquire certain funds. Minister, you're not alone in this decision, but you can't be the one blocking that decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec has the floor to prepare Mr. Zvonko Lah, Mr. Benedict Kopmajer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u78	Thank you, Madam President. After more than two hours of this debate, it is clear what I have said in my position in the first place, that we have a splinter between some of the views of the Minister and the actions he is drawing. This was particularly evident in this longer debate that they had with the proposer, saying what this principled position of the government is that this track is necessary and, on the other hand, we have a lot of arguments about why this moment is not yet built. The Minister has also repeatedly discussed patience and perseverance in his public statements. But I don't think we're aware here that there's no time for this patience and perseverance, because there's something more important behind this waiting. The further development of Luka Koper – and of course we have all stressed this today, and I will stress it again – depends on the second track, but not only on Luka Koper, but on Koper, as a city, Primorska as a region and Slovenia as a country. Here we are talking about thousands of direct jobs in Luka Koper, even more, a few thousand jobs that are indirectly linked to the activities of Luka Koper in Slovenia, and what this would mean if the second track actually brought more such jobs. Here we are now playing or blinding in some way about how to approach the construction of this second track, at this point in fact, and this has already been exposed, this track must have already been in construction. Talking about the extraction track, the alternatives with the track to Trieste, is completely absurd. This also makes clear to the profession, let me just say two quotations. The President of the Association of Spedders said: "The load will be our customers before 2020," this is the point when this link is supposed to end, "to redirect elsewhere if we keep giving them signals that there will be no track." The president of the Slovenian Railways Administration says: "Mariando will first move his logistics to other corridors, what we will drive on this work after 2020 is a big question." In short, by stalling when we are patient and persistent, we are simply signaling that we do not have the serious intention of building this second track, and the logical consequence is that logistics and freight forwarders will begin to look for alternatives, other ports and their cargo along those paths that are more stable and long-term. I think that in this debate today it is important to stress, not how to build this second track, but how quickly we need to build it, how to find the right procedures. We also keep hearing about the need to verify that there are no clear numbers, what it means to build this track, that we do not really know exactly what we are talking about. I think that in all this 25-year debate, as well as in this last debate, which is going on for about a year, so many analyses have been made, so many studies have already been presented that we have a wide range of potential solutions here. And I'm wondering at this point whether the Ministry has checked them to see if Damian's study has checked the other options, not least the ones that Dars is proposing, and so on. There was also talk of checking the sustainability of the project. We have reported some approximation of this project for European funds, of course it has failed because the financial structure has not been completed. Did we do anything about it at the time? Has the sustainability of this project been verified? Has it been checked whether this cost can be reduced anywhere, is it a real price, or will it continue to rise, or do we have this information? I think that the Ministry is responsible for the fact that if there is such a strong public debate and also such strong public pressure that there is a second turn, such as those procedures the Ministry has taken to obtain specific numbers, specific indicators and actually says, see, it costs so much and so much, it is not worth us and the state will not go into it. In short, there is also a reopened invitation to tender at the door in November and, as far as I know, we will not apply for it. And this is also an indication that no step forward has been taken in this direction since the first call for proposals to come in November. There are, of course, a lot of positive effects that this construction of the second track, economic, as I have already said in the position, development and not least environmental. But it seems to me that at this point these are debates that are too long-term, obviously, for this government. We are talking about building a second track bringing more jobs and developing an economy at least to some extent so that it can function normally. At the same time, we also have an environmental aspect, which is probably not a priority at the moment, and a aspect of the importance of public infrastructure, public transport, which is very pedestrian in Slovenia. In short, I think there's some kind of blinding of the government and the ministry or some other moment blocking the construction of the second track, and I would really like to find out why this is happening.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Lah has the floor. Mr Benedict Kopmajer, Mr Franz Trček, should be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u80	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Undoubtedly, Slovenia has an extremely high chance of developing logistics according to its geographical position. And for this development of logistics, the most important is the development of Luka Koper, because logistics is not only a transshipment from ships to rail and transport through Slovenia, logistics is much more, and here Slovenia has quite a lot of options. It follows that there is no doubt that this second track would not be needed. We need it, absolutely, because we can't count on a short period of time for the funds invested in this second track to be repaid. If that were the case, even those two of the three mentioned earlier by colleague Han would not have built so many railways in Slovenia for those times where it cost a lot and there was not much traffic. For the third one he mentioned last, I think he just dismantled the tracks and closed the railway in Slovenia, not building. However, the question is, because of the system we have and our legislation regarding the placement of state-of-the-art projects in space, especially infrastructure, whether the second track is designed, designed or I think it has not yet been completed, but is placed in a space acquired or adopted by the State Spatial Plan, whether it is most cost-effectively planned. In fact, we need to ask ourselves, given the rumors we hear. Former Minister Omerzel said it could be built for 600 million. Locals say they got information from the Chinese to build it for 400 million. There's a financial structure that's been made in our country, but there's a billion 400 million. Now, if I compare this to an investment that we have invested in TES 6 which is about this size, a series of sizes, there we can identify and experts say that it was unwise to go to the second block of 600 megawatts because we cancelled more than 10 bidders, and that this was not cost-effective if we went to 400 megawatts, we would have fewer problems in the future. Here we now find that 200 million per year will be lost by this block. I'm afraid that's how we approached this second track. That it was too easy for the various space regulators, who just made some demands, to whom no one had put themselves on the edge, that it had been designed more richly, because we know with this excuse that we only have to count for 20 years ahead and what comes with a reserve, but here I think we should watch that we build what is most beneficial and most economical. There are rumors like this and there are rumors like this. It is true that we do not have much time, if three more years of this track are sufficient, and then Luka Koper cannot develop any further, we need to act quickly. I don't think that's going to work. However, if I am still talking about public private partnership, it is clear that the indirect or direct effects of the investor will probably not suffice for someone to give so much money and build a second track. If it does, it will take some rent back from the country or it will need some profit, so it is better that the state itself builds it in some way through the guarantee. However, I am somewhere certain that this track would be built there for half the money, and it might also be good to see whether we need such a speed for freight traffic, or whether there will be so much passenger traffic that it would pay so much to invest for a much richer and so much more powerful track in this area. Because freight traffic could happen to increase so easily that it would simply engulf this passenger traffic over the years if the port or Koper continued to develop with such a trend. On the other hand, we could also count on the indirect benefits the country will have with this logistics. One of the sailors told me that for four years he carried only containers around the world and that in the world only these North Adriatic ports have terminals in the ports themselves, that nowhere in the world is this to be transported immediately from ships to railways and to logistics centres outside the port. I just think that the River and the Copper probably have this logistics inside them that only takes their space. But if this is how the port works, it has to have a pretty powerful transport route. To build a terminal 30 kilometers away from the port, they have also said what it means, loading, unloading this cargo, for example, unloading cars for 30 kilometers and unloading cars on the train and then reloading them, that these locations should be looked for a little bit elsewhere, in those locations where this logistics would get as many of these multiplier effects as possible. For iron we know that around a radius of 500 kilometers it is necessary to have a center where both the profiles and the sheet loaded on the wagons, then cut into pallets and transport in the area, I don't know, 500 kilometers that such terminals exist, but the whole composition of the train 600 meters must be under the roof because it can't be outside, and that there are also interests of foreign investors. But the way we prepare to put these objects into space, to plan, to drive away any foreign investor, and it's also very difficult to plan then if everyone has to wait 5, 6, 7 years to get a building permit. I think that if we were to amend the legislation, it would still be possible to complete this project in some way, but it would certainly be necessary to build this line as soon as possible, because the economy and also gross national income will have long-term benefits from this track. It should also be seen a little further not only from today until tomorrow.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Benedict Kopmeyer has the floor. Get Mr. Franz Duck ready, Mr. Danilo Anton Ranc.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u82	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State! I will not talk about the need for a second track or the profitability of Luke Koper, because this second track should have been realized years ago before the Austrians decided to build a railway from Beljak or Villach, if you want to, to Gradac and forward to Vienna and to connect with it in the Baltic corridor, they wanted to talk to us about the railway connection via Slovenia, but they did not have an accomplice. We probably already know that the so-called Baltic Corridor will be around us. Unfortunately, who will answer, the Italians will build or link to the Venice railway route through Vidm to Trbiz. You know that pontebban. The Austrians will join and take the route to Vienna in Beljak to join these projects immediately, probably led by a European study on the development of transport flows in the Baltic, a so-called Baltic corridor, which foresees a further increase in freight and passenger transport without a corridor for freight transport, 164% and 150% respectively. With the corridor these numbers and percentages are higher, it is said that freight traffic shows a 184% increase in net tones per year and an increase in passenger traffic by, is not wrong, but by 493% per year or this is for persons per day. And there's something else about numbers or prices. By comparison, the Austrians will pay €4.7 billion for 127 km of 2 tracks from Celovac to Graz with a two-tier tunnel 32.8 km below Golica and Koralpam, as I said, only a two-tier tunnel of €32.8, as I already said will arrive at €2.3 billion. Our 27 kilometers of the second track, one billion or one billion 200, as far as I'm listening to these numbers. Why don't we ask our neighbor how he's building for a smaller price? All this information is from a project that Austria is building this part of the corridor, and I have it all on my computer, and if anyone wants it, I can show it to him. We are involved in this Austrian project. Heavy 40-ton trucks carrying dug-in materials from the Golica tunnel drive material across the Vič border crossing, through the old Dravograd core and, of course, destroy old houses that are already 800 years old, and eventually destroy the road that you partially rebuilt or rewired this year. But what if it ran out of money for 900 yards of this road? Would you like to ask yourself, do we know how to cash the Austrians for looting and destroying our roads because these heavy trucks are going 30 km across Slovenian roads across Radelj? And another rhetorical question, what would the Austrians do if the situation were reversed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Trček has the floor to prepare Mr Danilo Anton Ranc, followed by Mr Bojan Podkoršek. Mr. Benedict. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, House of Respect! As you know, at the 11th extraordinary session, I provoked us to vote on this debate, which is now going on until the end of the fourth hour. There's been a lot of talk. So far, some key, weighty, technical dimensions, data of a financial nature. Among other things, the minister said we were actively looking. Mr Ranc, who somehow expressed the position of the largest coalition party, spoke of size and complexity. Mr. Han was talking about abnormal expectations. It's insane that it's not built yet! I have to be a little personal, in 1994-1998, except for the summer of almost every month after 10 days on the coast, we worked on such a large interdisciplinary project called Koper 2020, which dealt with the development of the Slovenian coast. I covered the regional economy in transition there myself. In those certain development strategies, it was almost self-evident that the second track would be up to one of those years in which we are now. He's not here. Why he's not here, I'm not going to argue, I don't have time, and I don't think it makes sense. I'd like to turn to something else. I'll read two quotes. I quote: "Supporting the integration of the Republic of Slovenia into the trans-European transport and energy network, taking into account its central and transitional geographical position, the enforcement of Kopra as the leading North Adriatic or Central European port in connection with the Baltic-Adriatic transport corridor." And also: "With the Kori port and the connection to the Baltic-Jadran traffic bridge, with our place in the Alpine-Adriatic-Podona area..." and so on. We have written and already adopted this year, the first is the Declaration on Foreign Policy, and the second is this strategic document of the foreign policy of Slovenia, Safe, a successful and respected country in the world. A lot has been said about competition. We have three ports, North Adriatic, in the 1990s, I've accumulated the seas of these studies on their cooperation, up and down, but, you know, it's, unfortunately, similar to the current refugee crisis we're facing, at the same time playing for ourselves. Pontebana or Pontebba, on the other hand, you have serious infrastructure plans for Croatia, Pula-Reka, Rijeka-Zagreb, Zagreb-Hungary. You need to be aware of that. The minister himself admitted that if we do not move forward, we will fall out of these so-called nuclear transport corridors there in 2023. Che Guevara SMC, Mr Ferruga, said well that even when they did this industrial track for the first time, politics was not exactly inclined to do so. I am pleased today that there is a debate that, somehow, members of the coalition as Members have become somewhat active. On the other hand, I am surprised, when Mr Weber declares, "there's someone in the coalition who said that," but at that point, it would be possible to go a little bonkers. I am also not pleased with this statement here, which probably indicates some human resources rustling on the DRI and on the Slovenian Railways, SMC is over the railway, SD over the DRI, probably also partly justified, but, you know, it is a similar story to Dars. Apparently, this coalition is about to get a little taste for manpower and people, if they're under this pressure, it's going to be going through the media right now, and time seems to be moving on. In a good decade or in a decade, Luke Koper increased the transshipment by five times. It was about studies, we have a state spatial plan for the third pier, a terminal, whatever you call it, which in some, say, similar time period would double the number of preshipments. Some of the more optimistic things go even a little bit beyond that, from 17 to 40. The current Minister of Finance, my personal opinion is that this is one of the main blockades. I'm kind of looking at the minister here, but not to defend him, it seems to me that some key decision makers in this government aren't very excited about building a second track. But the current finance minister was doing a study in which he showed that, in fact, a million more transhipments meant 500 jobs. In short, what I have just said means 8,500 new jobs. And the whole debate about this, the second line of yes, no, Luka Koper, up, down, is essentially a debate, whether we want to develop logistics in Slovenia, whether it will be an important part of our economy or not. On the other hand, I am a bit of a layman who understands this area a little bit because I dealt with it before I came to Parliament, grieves the narrowness of this debate. The debate must, of course, be extended. Fourteen days or a week ago, I was in Brussels at a joint meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure and Transport of the European Parliament and of the National Parliaments, and I will say that I did not point this out at all. And there was an MP from Bohemia, from the Czech Republic, who pointed out that there was an urgent need to work on the corridor to the port of Koper. When the Minorite Monastery opens, I am talking to an Australian Embassy official from Vienna at 4:30 p.m. for economic bilateral cooperation who are asking me about this topic. He was very warm now, the late Excellency of Slovakia and so on. Sometimes a person gets the feeling that everyone else is more interested in this than we are, but maybe they're interested in this interest, yeah, because they're not going to do anything and we're going to do some circuitry. You know, most of the trans-shipment in the markets of Luka Koper is about Austria. Of course, Austrian logists are interested in picking up this cake. And of course, a few embassies are now listening to this debate, whatever it is. You know, in the short run, the dispatches are going to be going somewhere. Now, some debate that we need to move is a debate on how this will be financed, the basic infrastructure is always financed from the country, there has also been a lot of debate here about whether it is worth or not at current credit prices, at the current low favourable interest rate, as such infrastructure must at least multiply for the euro invested there to 2 euros to 3 euros. And now it's a question of whether we're capable of doing it or not. If we lack some knowledge, we need to order a little more research abroad. You know, and here's the problem with these studies, which we lack in knowledge, what we're going to buy, and also knowing what the interests of some gentlemen are doing to us. If a gentleman works for us in a competitive port for years, if he's already in a presentation at the Ministry, I'll say, the data is a little bit of a theft as it suits him, then this is, I'm sorry, a waste of money. And as Bojan Dobovšek has already said, perhaps some serious countries know how to do these studies themselves. We are now spinning here probably, I don't know, from that half-lapsy, or someone told him, the minister over a year about the reality of that price. And we're talking from 400 million to three times that amount. I'm sure there's probably someone in this country who can actually evaluate and calculate this. And, you know, now this debate guy, who says, especially the biggest party to the coalition, is a risky project. I mean, a risky project is the scene of kindergartens in a medium-sized municipality in Slovenia. The key question of how we will deal with these risks, what are risk management strategies, and the risk study that this will not be like the weight of one 5 pages, 3 graphs, we will move on. In short, it seems to me that the matter needs to be moved to the debate on how we will finance this, how we will attach it to the entire corridor, and not forget passenger traffic. Many here you say, ah, this line is pre-sealed, up, down, it's partly true, but it's partly about some standards on the tent that have to be valid. You know, I'm not allowed to drive from Maribor to Koper for 5 hours plus a delay of 5 hours 30 minutes. Because I don't drive for two and a half hours, we should, come on, maybe with the exception of Alenka Bratušek, who then came as a firefighter, all the premieres of the last 20 years should be in jail. I mean it very, very seriously. And, of course, from the Government and the Ministry, I actually expect these more active movements to start talking about the implementation of these issues, because otherwise these debates have been too much for 20 years. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr Danilo Anton Ranc has the floor to prepare Bojan Podkoršek and, Mr Igor Zorčič. Here you go, Mr. Rance.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u86	Dear President, Honourable Minister and both Secretary of State! Perhaps I would briefly touch on my view on infrastructure projects, because I am a great advocate of these projects not only infrastructure projects but also those based on some natural sources. And now, if, of course, I draw a parallel here between infrastructure projects and natural resources, there is, of course, a highway, a railway, a sea and I think, this is the wealth we have in Slovenia, and we have to somehow connect it to an organism, if I make a mockery of it. In my opinion, a country is an organism with a scar, a nerve, and this represents some infrastructure for the economy in this case. So in this light, of course, I would dare to evaluate all of our projects if I looked back at the history of the highway, if there was no where Slovenia would be here – probably somewhere even more backward. Then there's the second track, of course the third axis and the energy infrastructure. This is a matter of some fundamental state, some economies and economies, which, of course, we must recognize in one way or another, I will not say an opportunity, but a basis for the development of the economy. So all these elements are the bearers of economic and economic development, and without that, of course, I can hardly imagine any developmental perspective of Slovenia and the exploitation of these natural resources that we have. Let's just remember, say, the developmental backlog of Prekmurje, and I won't say Primorska now, if there wasn't a highway from Kopra to Murska Sobota and beyond. This is not only important for transit, for links in these corridors, but also for the development of the economy in all these areas. I mention several times the case of an investor in a small municipality in Prekmurje, which came from the most backward municipality to the most developed municipality after income per capita. What did the mayor tell me? He said if there wasn't a highway, there wouldn't be an investor, we'd still be out there on the tail. It is similar to my view of the railway corridor, the railway infrastructure, this fifth corridor and, of course, this opportunity of Luka Koper, which we have and which, without any infrastructure expansion, can become a third-rate port, but if we allow this flow of rail freight, these are excellent opportunities for this natural resource, the coast, this infrastructure and the port that we have to become the most modern and one of the biggest ports in this area, as it is known to have great advantages over the northern ports. Of course, I would have remembered here historically again some decision makers in the past, but perhaps Kavčič, what the affair was then, had to fly away, who in fact decided to take one such bold step and in fact allowed the construction of this highway. In some ways, as I have already said today, I am very pleased with this bold decision by the government and the minister that we need infrastructure. If we talk about the second track today, it is undoubtedly a project that is of long-term vital importance not only for Slovenia, Primorska, but also for the wider environment. This is the opportunity for Luka Koper to become the largest port in the area and, of course, our railways become the largest carrier and freight forwarders in the area. The debate shows in this direction that consensus is unequivocally that we need it, and here I am optimistic. If there's a will, there's always a light at the end of the tunnel. I think it's the right way. Of course, when you look at the past, that's 20 years from the idea to today, a man, even as an MP or a Slovenian, worries. And now I see a new approach from the ministry, which, after one year of government, has been a little bit of a lookout for these projects, and after the cabinets and all sorts have come out. Among other things, it is likely that some overestimated project of a billion 400 could be rationalised and put into some more economic contexts. I would stress once again that I see the Minister's approach here as a way of project management. In the meantime, there are studies that are a little disturbing. I would not focus on this much here, but I would, of course, give my opinion on this study, just as an observer, more than a Member, to focus on this money as soon as possible on the start of the investment, in some way, as I mentioned earlier, I would revise these project costs. I am sure that I myself have led major investment projects for a long time, that there is a lot of "stretch" and that we can quickly be below a billion. Then I would stress this in particular – colleagues of the Primors, they know how to connect well, I think they can also be examples to other players in this game. But here are, of course, economic societies and the factors that may not want to go into this game, I don't know why, so at least I'm informed that together Luka Koper, railways, ministry and Members, politics, let's finally move this project forward, to actually animate everyone involved, that they will act synergistically in the same direction. As far as economic eligibility is concerned, I mean, these expressions sometimes upset me a lot. Sometimes some accounting view of some projects, sometimes I have had such experiences in my practice, when, of course, some content may have to go beyond some accounting view of some economic entitlement and can be assessed for a longer period of time, I will not say 20, 30 or 50 years, and I think that even if in the past the highway decision makers would focus mainly on economic eligibility, they would not have it today. I'd say here, it's the will, the goal is, let's all do it, and bury the shovels, not only on the second track, but also on the third development axis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor. Prepare Mr Igor Zorčič and Mr Jože Tanko. Here you go, Mr. Underpants.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u88	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister, both secretaries, colleagues and colleagues! I must admit that I was pleased when it was voted that this point would go to a meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Not because we're here pointing fingers at the minister, but because he did what he didn't do, but because we don't have this developmental second track built yet. Let me tell you, I'm coming from one valley, the Dravin Valley, and I was playing with a book this weekend, and I read it about the railroad. I want to say which direction I want to discuss that in 1892 they started building railways from Poljčan to Slovenian Konjice. This railway was 15 kilometers long and started to be built on 21 June, and on 21 December of the same year the opening of this 15 - mile [15 km] railway was opened. This was in 1892. But it was narrow, and I have to say it. I want to move on to today, of course. Surely we are already talking a lot about this very important investment in the Republic of Slovenia. A lot of words went empty in the previous term. And even today, when I initially said that I was satisfied that this point was at a meeting of the National Assembly, it seems to me that we are talking too loosely or likely, some of the debates may also be a little unrealistic, they are moving too far into the future to really want to put seed into this investment. It seems important to me that we are talking about such strategic points, of course we have more in Slovenia, today we are talking about this railway, today we have also talked a lot about Luka Koper, which is certainly a strong link between these two segments. But it seems to me and I am increasingly finding that we are too indecisive on these strategic points. Of course, I don't want to criticise it, it's indecisive here many times, I'm talking about strategic points, the government, ministers, we MPs in the National Assembly, and as a result, it's passed on many times to all the people working at the Ministry. This year, I don't want to comment on this statement, a lot of statements like that or other statements, but I think there have been a lot of unserious statements. Of course, statements between all of us, including the distinguished minister, have escaped, so that those who are watching us outside are certainly of the opinion that we are not serious about this project. I would sincerely like us to do this differently, to move more responsibly and to take on those strategic points that we are voting in this House with great responsibility, even if they hurt. I've been thinking a lot of times, like you have to go into surgery, and the doctor tells you it's gonna hurt, and then you decide not to go into surgery. I think we need to be more united on these important points, much more demanding from the profession, from the people we have employed in the ministries. Sometimes I find it a little unrealistic that we are talking in the National Assembly, whether this investment will be €400,000 or will be €4 million. I think we have enough experts in Slovenia, but it is up to us to ask them to put these things on paper and on our tables and to make these investments. Of course, I highly doubt that when we are looking for a strategic long-distance partner, perhaps through media statements, I think we will certainly be difficult to succeed in this area. It must also be today’s session to pour clean wine in this area, to say to one another whether it has passed this morning so that people can see and feel that we are talking about these important things or that we are serious. That's why I would like you to be united in the coalition first, to agree, and no matter if it hurts to go through with this operation. Our economy has repeatedly warned us that it requires or expects us only to create conditions. I think we think too many times and believe that only our domestic economists are warning us about this. Surely, in this segment, which we are talking about today, we are being accompanied in a wider region, Europe, also probably from which country. When they feel that we are indivisible in this segment, that we are not serious, I have a feeling that they are never deliberately helping for such an important project. Dear Minister, it is your job to convince your people who are sitting in the government in this area. From those who work and have already worked before you, before you come to these jobs, you demand much, much more. If you fail, then our discussions are our desire to build strategic projects in the future, certainly in vain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor to prepare Mr Jože Tanko and Mr Marjan Dolinšek. Here you go, Mr. Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u90	Vice President, thank you for your word. Dear Minister, both secretaries, colleagues and colleagues! A topic like today seems very important to me. This is not only because it is the second track that the Primors and the Slovenian economy expect very much from Luka Koper, but because it is also a debate on other infrastructure projects. Large State infrastructure projects have proven difficult to obtain some financial support from the country in this financial situation, so it is very difficult to pay them directly from the budget. Discussions such as today may provide an answer to how to finance projects such as the second track, such as certain roads, for the future. The third development axis is supposed to be built outside the budget, from Dars, and not least, the construction of hydroelectric power plants. There, too, the State is to a certain extent obliged to build certain infrastructure arrangements. It is very important to find in the future a key that will ensure this funding and enable the smooth development and construction of such an infrastructure. I wouldn't go into a debate about whether we need another track or not. It's more than clear that we need him. I say that for reasons we don't have it yet. There are three of them. The first is money, the second is money, and the third is money. For the first time in this mandate, there was an idea that it should to a certain extent be financed by private capital. I absolutely agree with that. However, I believe that this private capital will also want a certain risk elimination if I put it that way. So he'll want something in return, too. That someone would just give him money for not getting anything or having another track, and that money wouldn't come back, we wouldn't see it. So the matter as far as this is concerned is still very open. As far as budgetary financing is concerned, we can find that the country, as far as this is concerned, is quite inoperable if I put it that way. Now we have the current issue, the construction of hydro power plants on the Lower Sava, and we find that the country finds this money hard to secure some synchronized construction of the accumulation pool in relation to the construction of the hydropower plant itself. This is a figure that is 30 times lower than the amount envisaged for the construction of the second track, so it is so much more in place to figure out how this will first be built, which is significantly cheaper, and only then how these other major projects, which some say will be completely easy to finance from the budget. Mr Minister, I propose that this second track should remain your priority, while also finding with the Secretary of the Ministry of Finance the resources to build these issues, which we must do early on the action plan, are significantly cheaper, and may be the basis for this and the experience that we will find money for these larger projects than the second track. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor. He's not here. Mr. Dolinshek. No, no, no. Mr Franz Jurša has the floor to prepare Mr Ljubo Žnidar. Here you go, Mr. Jursha.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u92	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Maybe an introduction. This kind of debate then has no conclusion and no conclusion. That's right. It is true that this is a very important topic, which we are very interested in in in some way, and in some ways we all want the construction of a second rail track to take place in some way, because at the time of construction there would also be quite a lot of employment for our builders, who suffered in some way the collapse of all construction in Slovenia during the economic crisis. But in order to touch on some things, I have to say that these things that I'm about to say didn't really grow on my kennel, but I did collect data, and I hope that these data are also accurate. First of all, I'd say we can't talk about the profitability of the second track. That's not true. Of course, I would also say that it is possible to finance a second track. Of course, the most appropriate solutions must now be sought. When we started talking about this, I will not be returning historically now, but I will stand up this year when the call was made and when Slovenia signed up for this call, it has been decided that this investment will be based on a public-private partnership. It was not clear to me that because it was not in writing and we spoke orally, it was not clear to me how we would interest the private partner in investing in this project. We all say that we do not want Luke Koper to change ownership so that part of Luke Koper can be sold or given to that private partner who would be willing to invest in the construction of another track. A billion 200, 300 million euros is probably money, and the private person who invests in this construction would probably want to pay back the money in concrete terms and make a profit in this investment as any entrepreneur. If we go a little bit to look at the trend in how actual transhipment and then the transport of goods is increasing, we can undoubtedly see that the actual issue is growing. It is growing from year to year and it is expected that this growth will continue, of course, on one condition that we start to think carefully about getting to the second track of the railway, rather than staying in this solution. If we stay on this solution, then we can quickly find that the cargo will move to other ports, nearby ports, and some of this cargo will be transported inland by other means of transport, it is said on the road. This transport is significantly more expensive and then our competitiveness, says Luke Koper and the carrier will no longer be so interesting. I'd like to draw your attention to another matter that's kind of interesting. Luke Trieste changed ownership. 40% of Luke Trieste is supposed to be sold to one of the world's largest shipsmen. And this can very quickly mean that a large part of the container cargo – the new owner deals most with container transport – can then move to another port and arrange the transport of the cargo somehow to the extent of those who are or will be owners of the port of Trieste. In any case, our port or transport may be very interesting in view of our geostrategic position and may also be significantly cheaper than transporting through other transport routes. We must be aware of this in the preparation of the project and try to resolve matters in this direction so that the second track is built. During a period of twenty years, the project would bring about EUR 9.4 billion of additional gross social product, the combined impact of public and private investment in transport infrastructure on our section, namely the Balkan-Adriatic Corridor and the Baltic-Adriatic Corridor, which would exceed and bring in EUR 12 billion of additional gross social product and 5 billion at the time of infrastructure use. In doing so, we would create 3,000 new jobs, during construction and later in logistics around 6,000 jobs, assuming that the second track would cost around €1.35 billion, I could, now I will see this vision, say, could get 25% from the European Union, say 385 million and 75% from the European Investment Bank, and of course also with obligations. Annual annuity between €18 million and €51 million to be provided by Luka Koper. I'd still stop here. Some funds in the state budget are already being made available by Luka Koper and used for some other investments or invested in something else, the country is paying and, given the projected growth, this is annually between EUR 5 and 9.5 million, with the dividends of Luke from EUR 6 to 10 million, with the use of Slovenian railways somewhere around EUR 6.7 to 12.7 million and possibly with the petrol cent could raise 22 to 27 million, which would mean, in the worst case scenario, that we could raise for annuity investments at the worst option of EUR 39.7 million, with the best option of EUR 59.2 million. We still have untapped cooperation with Bavaria, but if we are talking about China, then we can somehow find out that this investment will be paid in some way. Finally, once again, this is my opinion, I got it based on the data of some prominent experts, it did not grow on my pupil, but eventually if we want the development of Slovenia, we have to invest in infrastructure facilities. The second track is one of the most important. Of course, I will not ignore other, the most important infrastructure facility at this time, if we want to employ, at the final stage of the second track corridor there may be a series of factories dealing with logistics and some things are also carried out for that cargo which has been brought to Luka and then driven inland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Žnidar has the floor, and Mr Minister and Mr Janko Weber are next.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The main issue in Divac-Koper's investment is how to close the financial structure on this project, but not only in this section, and how to modernise the whole section of the fifth corridor at the same time. From today's debate, I have come to understand that the coalition does not fully understand what a national envelope is and what an open invitation to tender is. I believe the Minister knows this very well, but this information needs to be provided, Minister, clearly there is no misunderstanding of the term as to the possibility of drawing. It is true that up to 85% of the eligible funding for the individual project can be drawn up. However, this project gives the wrong impression that the problem would be solved – we sign up for this invitation to tender – but it is overlooked that it is possible to draw up up up to 85% but only up to the level of the national envelope. And this one has its own limit, and it's only possible to draw 159 million here. There's a completely wrong understanding of what percentages can be pumped here. This is said to everyone, it is clear that what is above this value is the resources to be allocated exclusively from the budget or any other source. This is not good for the applicant, Mr Weber, because today, in your debate, when you said that the project should start, build, and then we will already apply for European funding below. That's not true. We can't and can't do more than the national envelope allows us to sign up. And the first rule is that we absolutely cannot start an investment if the financial structure of the project is not closed. That's two basic rules we can't go through. The former government, I am talking about the government of Alenka Bratušek, knew that in the new financial perspective the project, such as the second track of Divaca-Koper, would be up to date. However, only EUR 312 million was earmarked for the 2014-2020 financial perspective in the relevant OP ROPI for transport infrastructure. Of which 312 million for rail infrastructure and only 49 million for road infrastructure. The government of Alenka Bratušek has significantly reduced the national envelope, representing a total of less than 10% of the total resources from cohesion. We can say that the previous government has forgotten the second track, in the narration. Slovenia would be significantly easier to run for the second track project if there were at least as much funding as in the previous perspective. However, if we were to take the second track seriously, there should be at least 1 billion funds on the envelopes. This would be sufficient to allow the level of maturity of the project to begin at all. This is said to have been the case that the previous government of this importance or the second track was not aware of this importance, and immediately before the completion of the mandate from transport infrastructure to energy recovery with OPI ROPI, another 100 million of these 312 million had been transferred to energy recovery. This is said to have decreased by another 100 million. With regard to the evaluation of the value of this project itself. I would say that, Mr Omerzel was very misleading to the public and also to the government when he claimed that we could make this investment for 600 million euros. I must say that I very badly believe him if he could not plan his department's resources well for three months, because after three months he realized that he no longer had the money for his own operation. These estimates of the value of the investment are entirely in mind and without any basis. It is true, however, that all the target elements that we want to achieve through this project must be identified for a realistic assessment and accurate assessment. And once we have all these targets and key elements known, we will also know the investment in real terms financially and also give timeframes. Minister, I also have one question for you. We know what the possibility of investing with European funds is. They are minimal, by no means sufficient for the basic initial framework. We know that today it is not easy to find strategic partners for a public-private partnership. You have already thought about concessions, and I am interested in what your position is today on concessions both by Luke Koper, who could be awarded, or by Slovenian Railways. On the other hand, the Minister would appeal to you to prevent or to stop any possibility of privatizing Luke Koper. I don't know. I don't know what's going on here. We also know that the department has no actual influence on Luka Koper alone, because this is a management contract, I'd say, pretty bad. I appeal to you that no such unforeseeable things will happen here in Luka Koper herself. However, I would like you to be able to give an answer or an opinion on the award of concessions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr Peter Gasperšič, Minister for Infrastructure, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Chairman. Maybe we should just go around the back. I would like to begin with this question raised by Mr Ljubo Žnidar. In fact, I would also like to thank you for explaining very well and in detail how it is financed by European funds, the question is, what is in the national envelope, how big is it, how big can it be obtained in the open invitation to tender. I think this has been explained several times on my part, including by the Ministry, but it does not hurt to say it again, because obviously there are still certain concerns that we are not doing anything wrong, that there is some big money waiting for us here, 85% co-financing, but, as I said, only up to the amount of 159 million is this envelope. And this envelope was actually set out in the mandate of the previous government by Mrs Bratušek, who is unfortunately not here now, and I also wanted to explain these same things to her myself, as you have already. Also, the fact that my predecessor, Minister Omerzel, put the project in a drawer because he estimated that it was too expensive, that we didn't have a billion 400 million, but for 600 million he was going to publish or do some value check, and then he ran out of time. About our view of concessions. I think that we need to look at this in a broader context and ask ourselves how we are going to close this financial structure. We have more options, one option is to find a public-private partner. When we say we are going to win a private partner, the question immediately arises what we will offer him, what will the private partner have from this. There was also Mr. Vrtovac's question, who said that you would not let me out of this room until I said what we would give to the private partner. Of course, the private partner simply expects a return. The return may be obtained in such a way that the State actually covers the contribution it has made to a project by making payments over the years, while the other way is by allowing it to benefit from certain activities, by engaging in an activity from which it can then draw on that return. Here we come to the question of where a return to a private partner can occur in the context of this project. From business itself, the transshipment of the goods on the railway of this return is not to be expected because the use charged for the carriage of goods by rail is far, far too small to cover such large inputs as are necessary for rail infrastructure. In comparison, we collect 300 million tolls from 600 km of highway, and we collect 8 million tolls from a thousand 200 km of railway lines. This is the difference, therefore, where it is not possible to calculate from the usages to make any kind of profit. Of course, it is possible that this private partner who would be involved in this project could make some money in the transfer of goods to Luka Koper. And here again, the question is, are we ready to open things here? The National Assembly has already adopted a strategy for the management of state-owned companies this year, and it has been said in this area for Luka Koper that we are actually closing the door, that the company is strategically important and that some capital injections, more than 50 + 1 shares, which must be maintained by the State, will therefore not be released. It is also a very negative position on the part of the administration itself, Luke Koper, to discuss and open up the possibility of granting concessions. This was also suggested by OECD studies, in a way, where it was said that Luka Koper should actually be commercialised in some way. In this context, it has been proposed that the management of the port infrastructure, which would remain under the auspices of the State, could also be separated from local communities – such cases can be carried out by the majority of the European ports that operate successfully, using such a model, while operations are carried out by real transhipment and logistics through concessions granted by the State. This model is actually preferable to me. Thus, the State retains a hand over the infrastructure and, of course, then grants transhipment concessions to carry out activities from which the State is then actually receiving some revenue. But also for this change, some consensus will have to be reached if we are to make some progress in terms of commercialisation of activities in Luka. But now we're in a situation where Luke Koper doesn't actually allow anything, he's actually keeping it all to himself. We have already had discussions where we have tried to involve them in cooperation on this project, right at the beginning of the mandate, because there was also a question of cooperation, whether Slovenian Railways and Luka Koper are participating in the search for a financing solution. I must say that right at the beginning of the mandate we had a joint meeting on that ride when I took the train after this existing track to Ljubljana, and a meeting with the director of the SZ, the director of the Porta Koper administration, where we discussed the possibility of looking for common strengths within the country, with the resources we have available, this project, however, was financed. I must say, by the SZ, this initiative actually came, they even had a proposal made. However, I can say that the President of the Management Board, Luke Koper, reacted with great restraint, and also later, Luka Koper put herself in a position that the state must build this because they need it. There was no willingness to cooperate, although, as it is said, this cooperation could be highly desirable and we might already have a solution to finance this project today. Today, it has also been said that there have been some major changes in Luka Trieste, where 40% of ownership has actually been given to a shipping giant and where we are now afraid that some competition will arise in Luka Koper. Yes, if we do not think about such steps, we will be very difficult, Luke Koper will be very difficult to keep up with all these pressures, with all these investments that such partners will be able to make possible. We need to know that Luke Koper has a point ahead of him, now if we want to, today we are talking about the construction of another track, but we know that if we want the second track to have some sense, we will also have to make a few investments in Luka Koper – today this has been mentioned somehow – and these investments are not small. According to Luke Koper's plans, it is estimated that by 2020 400 million would have to be invested and, by 2030, 300 more, or all together, about €800 million over the next 15 years, investments that only allow the expansion of the first and second piers, and we have not even opened up the question of the construction of the third pier, which is then another few hundred million, could also be close to a billion. In short, even in Luka Koper, huge investments are needed and it will be much easier for the company to make this investment if it had a strong partner. Thus, from several points of view, thinking about opening this door to find some partnerships is useful; it is said to be the development of Luke Koper itself, as well as to seek a solution to the financing of this second track project. There was also a question of cooperation with neighbouring countries. We are also working intensively in this area, and the most intensive talks are held with neighbouring Hungary. As ministers, I have already made certain contacts with other countries, and these discussions will continue, because I agree that this is particularly important, that we have the support of these hinter countries, which are gravitating with their transfer to Luka Koper, that we have their support at least in principle when we look for them when we run for European funds. I think this is very important if we also have a wider coalition when we apply for European funds. Today, too, there has been a great deal of talk about whether we should look at economic logic in such infrastructure projects or, I will say, a project as much as is so important that we can in some way ignore economic logic and opt for a project because it will bring so many benefits to the country. I think that in a situation where we have to put this funding together, even through bank loans and so on, we need to make sure that the project is economically sustainable. Otherwise, simply banks will not participate in this project and compare that investing in some infrastructure or another track project is in some way similar to investing in education, health care in terms of spending public money, I do not think it is fair to compare, because we know that this is the end of the line of investment, of which companies, shareholders, Luka Koper, Slovenian Railways will have the key benefits. In short, here to invest in projects that will benefit businesses or invest money in public infrastructure such as education, health care and so on, but it is not entirely comparable. But all I'm saying is that all we have to do is look at things with economic eyes. In addition to where we will apply for the European invitation to tender, it has already been said that we will apply for the next open invitation to tender, where the remains of unused cohesion envelopes will be available, and this call will not be published this year. This year, as we have information from the European Commission, the open invitation to tender will not be able to run with infrastructure projects, but I will say the work on national envelopes, and we will run with projects on the rest of the network, i.e. for these 159 million euros, we have already announced one project, Poljčane–Slovenian Bistrica, which will now be followed by an application for the Zidani Bridge-Cele. This part of the 159 million national envelope will thus be reserved with applications for projects. We will also remain the cohesion funds available in this perspective, in the one that is now beginning, and the remaining cohesion funds up to 300 million, as has already been said, will be fueled by the project of the reconstruction of the Prague road itself and then by the modernisation of the Maribor-Sentilj track. As far as this national envelope is concerned, there is no fear, these funds will be spent; that is to say, with the second track, we must run on an open invitation to tender, where we will try to obtain as much of these funds as possible, i.e. more than 30%. If I may yet try to conclude what is meant to be the conclusion of this debate today. We have been saying so far that the government has decided on a public-private partnership and that this is how we will seek funding. Based on this OECD study, it has also been found that these procedures are very difficult, even long-term, and to this end we will make another round of searching for other funding options. If you want, we can also talk in some way about public-public partnership, where we want to re-examine the possibility of setting up a project company in which both Luka Koper and Slovenian Railways would participate and then through this project company, through appropriate mechanisms, acquire and engage also the ability to borrow, including the EFSI Guarantee Scheme. In short, this is our objective and, of course, to the greatest extent possible, to draw on these European funds, which is this primary objective, without which I think that the implementation of this project would actually be very difficult. However, in order to put it all together on some appropriate financial estimates around costs, the government will also decide to assess this value of the project, for which the tender documentation itself is now in the review at this European Advisory Centre. This will also be done on their part – i.e. the EIB's sides, if you want – the comments and proposals made to make the documentation as best as possible and then select this contractor to verify the value and also propose possible rationalisation and optimization of the project itself. So there will be no more of these guesses, whether the project is worth 600, or a billion, or a billion and a half. In short, in this way we will also be able to speak more with all partners and banks in a more sovereign manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber, the proposer, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u98	Thank you for your word. Perhaps the introduction first explained to Mr Ljub Žnidar, who was given by Mr Minister, is correct; therefore this 159 million is not the subject of a second-track debate at all, but of other investments. In fact, it is an open invitation to tender at the end of the envelope, and the fact is that this open invitation will certainly have a greater opportunity to obtain funds from those projects that will begin. Because it is the rest of the funds and the use of these funds must be 100%. And this is the opportunity and urgency that I have pointed out in the debate. Otherwise, it might only be a brief reminder of the following fact that if today we were talking largely about the biggest obstacle to the Minister, because he does not have a closed financial structure, he would only briefly recall the fact that we had a financial structure in our infrastructure already completed, this is, say, an airport. The airport's own resources, the European funds, but we decided to sell it, and today there is virtually nothing new about it. It's just a warning. Even if we close the financial structure, this does not mean that we will not be wise enough and successful enough to actually have this realization, because we must not blind ourselves even before there is not one very dirty scenario behind all these scenarios, from my point of view: if you do not have another track, of course Luka Koper has less value if you do not have another track, Slovenian railways also have less value. And yet behind all this is not some desire for the cheap sale of Luke Koper and Slovenian Railways and then we will get some savior who will of course say, for small money, yes, because then we will try to do something. This is just an opportunity for a warning, but I really think that in the event of a fact that is to a large extent indisputably indisputable; the project currently under way is a very good project and, in fact, a project that takes full account of all the criteria of this European track. Therefore, the highest standards are taken into account in this line, taking into account the highest environmental standards. So to expect the investment to get worse because of this is a minimum of expectations. Even compared to highways, when we look at highways, the problem was, of course, this is an extremely large investment, spatial, not all the documentation for all sections was produced, the land was not purchased and we met with auctions. Here we have another example where we have land in practice, the technical documentation is made, the deviations from environmental requirements are virtually gone up, because everything is fully taken into account, so we are on a very safe side, as this investment will actually stand at the end when it is, I hope, made. In doing so, we must not ignore this information, which I pointed out in the introduction, if the country is a financier, then the value added tax is automatically eliminated, but this is when we are talking about the investment value of 1.4 billion with VAT, immediately 250 million less and we are talking about a billion 150 million. This is the framework that will have to be provided both on this open invitation to tender for the envelope and in fact after closing the financial structure, either by borrowing or, of course, by selling the bonds. These are the forms that are also known in infrastructure. Here, however, I must point out that when we talk about economic effects and economic benefits, we should certainly not only talk about this 30km section, but we are talking about the entire network from Kopra, because this line is of course important, to Kiev, to the Hungarian border. This is the economic recovery that we must take into account in this investment, not just in this section. Taking this into account, the economic efficiency and eligibility of this investment are, of course, completely different and justified. Therefore, if we invest a billion in this section all the time, Slovenia will be able to get 3.3 billion out of this two billion and a half years, depending on the level of indebtedness or lending, in 30 years. But in doing so, it is necessary to re-emphasize the following. We have been talking this moment, or we have actually touched the possibilities of concessional funding, and it is certainly very important. This second track cannot only be considered as a second track: for the first time, of course, it must be considered as an overall rail network, and for the second time also as a major potential for Port Koper. If there is no other route, Porta Koper certainly cannot expand, has too few options and, of course, no one will invest in a port that does not actually have a promising connection to the ice or to the market. And when we talk about Luka Koper, it is certainly necessary to point out this fact that there will certainly be a greater opportunity and opportunity to talk about whether we will get investors, concession partners for Luka Koper or for the railway. There is certainly a significantly greater potential in Luka Koper for this method of financing than in railways. But first, we have to build the railroad, or there will be no talking with Luca Koper. This is a fact that, in my opinion, we are trying to draw very seriously today in this debate, which was also the key purpose of the debate. However, if I briefly touch on other financing models that do not mean an increase in public debt, it is certainly also a Swiss-Austrian model. In fact, Switzerland and Austria are building these major investments in a way that makes these investments within the infrastructure company on the railway; therefore, Austrian railways via their company, Switzerland via their own. And we could do the same in Slovenia, because in Slovenia we also have an infrastructure company within the Slovenian Railways, if I can call it that, which can also take over this investment and become a funder of railway infrastructure, because it can be committed without this being included in public debt. Of course, on the condition that we expect at least half of the funds to be created by this company on the market. And if Luke Koper grows, it is very likely that this traffic will also be created. As of today, we have such financing of Dars infrastructure. Dars also built this network for which he owed himself, but this is not the public debt of the Republic of Slovenia because it creates more than 50% of its turnover on the market. Today it has already been mentioned that highways or that Dars creates EUR 300 million per year on motorways for highway management. The fact is that it has the highest obligations right in 2014 and 2015 and then fall with the years of this obligation. It would certainly also be possible to combine both the infrastructure company in the railway, the merger with Darsa, as well as the form that has the knowledge to build railways and also sufficient resources to rent credits and not be included in public debt. In this public debt, I would like to point out once again the fact that the European Investment Bank’s assets can certainly be obtained at a 1 % interest rate, which is the lowest possible interest rate you can get. And in the fact that it is a very important project, which is tanning all countries from Ukraine or, if you want, the Baltica or even Russia to the Adriatic Sea, and this is a great potential, which would certainly also get a lot of support in all of these discussions, because if the North Adriatic ports fail to be adequately equipped with both infrastructure within Europe and maritime infrastructure, then they will become uncompetitive. However, the interest of the economy, the interest of capital in this case is such that it chooses the most rational route and the North Adriatic ports are clearly the most rational form of capital that flows across the entire land area if you want, because it is in fact a very broad interest to use this railway infrastructure. I would like, Mr Minister, to meet you at the National Assembly in the course of the debate when it is necessary to choose a model for the financing of this infrastructure. So, I don't even see the question whether to start or not, because if we don't start building, the Slovenian Railways actually become completely intolerable in the perspective and will be a huge cost for the country, Luka Koper will also not have its own development. And it is right to talk about funding sources in the National Assembly and then to make a final decision when and to what extent we can also, if necessary, with public debt, finance this extremely important and strategic infrastructure project that we can build in Slovenia. I would not want to, as I said in the introduction, that in all this chain from Lyon to Kiev Slovenia would become a weak member and that in fact all these flows would be diverted to Italy, through Slovenia to Austria. Last but not least, when we are at home here today wondering whether there is sufficient return, whether this investment is economically justified in the 30km section of the route, Austria is working the bypass of Slovenia, but it is not asked whether it is economically justified for them or not. In fact, they had already calculated that this was economic justification for them, just as the Austrian-Hungarian ruler had decided in the same time to build a southern railway from Vienna to Trieste, which was paid in 150 years, but in the meantime Austria – and hopefully Slovenia – experienced an economic revival. This is what we need in Slovenia – an economic rebirth. If we do not proceed quickly enough to build this track, then of course we will have very limited options in how we will perform the economic recovery in Slovenia. It has been proven in the last period that it cannot be achieved only through the cheap sale of our companies, because we are facing a very high number of unemployed people, we have a very difficult and hopeless situation and, on the other hand, it has been proven that our economic potential cannot be resolved in a way that we invest 5 billion in our banks and then these banks do not finance the economy. In this case, when we invest money in this infrastructure, it means that we have actually opened the door to the economy, the possibility to operate and improve the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. This is what is our duty as a politician, because 70% of gross domestic product, however, is created in foreign markets and why not also Luka Koper and Slovenian Railways would be involved in this very large market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Replica Mr. Ljubo Žnidar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Chairman. Only so, Mr Weber, can I really explain the lack of understanding of the possibility of drawing on European funds. The application for an open CEF tender, where this is not a cross-border project, allows for only a maximum of 30% of the investment value. National envelopes are a better way to increase the share of European spending. We know that the former government has underestimated or forgotten, not to say, on the second track and the possibility of drawing from the national envelope is only 159 million. It would also be detrimental to the transport system in the Republic of Slovenia to draw these 159 million with the second track, because projects on rail alone in the corridors are prepared for 2 billion and will be spent in the amount of 159 million and would be an irrational second-track spending because this part of the funds is also not a solution to the second track investment. None. The second track itself does not mean any traffic solution for the fifth corridor. So here things are clear, the possibilities are not actually here or are irrational because these values are absolutely too small. Here we cannot now deceive what the possibilities of drawing and so on and how much resources can be obtained here. These options and these options are extremely limited and there are actually no such options here.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u101	Thank you very much. There's no replica to the replica. Excuse me – the motioner, Mr Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u102	Thanks again. Emphasis, Mr. Žnidar. It was clearly found that 159 million is not available for the second track, but for other investments. Therefore, it is undeniably necessary to obtain funds from the rest of these envelopes from other projects, and this is what we need to start and secure, even if it is 30%. He doesn't play for me. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u103	Thank you very much. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u104	No role. [[…]] It's important that we get the money.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u105	You've all received your word. We have not yet spent our time and, under Article 71, we still have an opportunity to discuss. Anybody else want to discuss this? Then I'm asking you to sign up. If the motioner and Mr. Minister would like to, please raise your hand. They are notified: Mrs Ludmila Novak, Mr Marko Ferluga, Mr Marjan Dolinšek, Mr Dr. Franz Ducky. Everyone has two minutes to discuss. Mrs. Ludmila Novak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u106	Dear Mr. Minister, President, colleagues and colleagues! In listening to this debate, I must say that I was actually overwhelmed by sadness. Why? Because I can see how inconsistent we are in this country. First, the minister himself, as a candidate for the minister, brought unrest to the country when he said that the second track was not necessary, then they fixed it, different statements. In short, you, Mr. Secretary, have caused some disturbance, some uncertainty. Then I listen to coalition partners, where I also see that the coalition is not harmonised. I was even more concerned when you were talking about Luke Koper not being willing to co-operate or something like that, even with railways, it's not possible to negotiate. Then why is Luka Koper in 51% state property? Why are state-owned railways if they cannot be linked to a joint project? If I see a train from Maribor to Ljubljana driving for two hours, almost three hours or four hours from Maribor to Kopra, I will be even more sad; when I was in Madrid now and they said that the train from Madrid to Barcelona is 600 kilometers away in two and a half hours. And we're driving through a tunnel in Madrid, six lanes, two times three lanes, 12 kilometers long, made from European funds. And then I wonder why we are so foolish in Slovenia, but we do not know how to make more use of this, to make a decision and to stand behind those and money rationally. We're buying land, we've already got some permits, I don't know what's going on, and we don't know if we're gonna do it or not. Also this always echoes in my ears, Ptuj was a bigger city than Maribor before the construction of the Danube-Trieste railway. The bird didn't like the railroad, but Maribor took it. And what happened? Maribor has gone far ahead of Ptuj, unfortunately now it is a little different, but we must be aware of how necessary and important this is for the economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Marko Ferruga.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u108	Thank you. I'd like to point out once again that we're spinning around like a cat around hot porridge. Now is the time to start with the facts. But the facts are as follows. It is necessary to get a real review of this project because it is said that there have also been talks about some fine interferences in freight train tunnels that do not need to be reduced here as well. It is very important that all measures actually begin in this direction, so that physical construction begins. One option, as previously said, is that the state begins to be like this guarantee for initial start-up and then gradually applies to these European funds and thus somehow acquires this money back. This is also one of the options. It is necessary to look very wide, to find some variants, to get what the minister has already mentioned, some consortium of interested countries that exist here, as we have said, from Hungary forward and everything else, and also here to see what can be done. Normally, let's see if in exchange for some concession on the third pier or something, but we need to find some solutions to get this track out. Since it has already been found here hundreds of times that this second track is an aorta for Luka Koper and for the coastal economy and beyond for the whole of Slovenia. Once this aorta is broken, when this blood supply is no longer there, the economy is finished. So I appeal to you, Minister, that you are really trying to find these funds and that this construction begins. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr. Dolinšek Marjan has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u110	Thank you. I'll just be the last part 'cause the time's been pissed off before. I must fully agree with Mrs Novakova, with my colleague Mark, and also with my previous predecessors. Today we've heard a lot of facts and so on. I think that any indication that our government is not working on this project is a shame to talk about it. If any government has done something about it, that government is in this practically bad year. However, I think it is crucial that we find the right model, as has been heard from the proposer. I don't think we should just look at and focus on just one model. Why don't we have a choice of two, three models, of course clearly defined goals and so on, then we reach consensus and decide on the best option. Now that the track is, will or will not, I think the track must be and that the assessment of the value itself, which is supposed to now be put on the call for tender, will also show the price itself on this project or the value itself. However, I would like to point out here that I am a little concerned that Luke Koper and the Slovenian Railways are not actively involved in this story and are not actively involved; and even the opposite. And that seems incomprehensible to me, and I expect something to be done about it. Mrs Novakova warned, everything is owned by the state, this story is incomprehensible in this part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz Runk, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u112	Thank you for your word. Since there is little time, I will be in a hurry; if this debate has shown anything, it has shown that we need a public-public partnership. Why? As the Minister has already pointed out, since for rail infrastructure there is a much smaller externalisation of costs than for the highway cross; in short, you cannot spread to the final user. The questions raised are whether any other neighbouring countries will be included in this public-public partnership with some of those entities from Slovenia. Mr Weber has shown how they solve this in some other countries where you account for this from a debt country and such legal entities are mostly in the minus. Asfinag, an Austrian for example, who cares for Austrian roads, is also, of course, a negative because that is the purpose of this. Of course, as long as we have the logic of thinking: the car and as long as we're caught in this mentality of a fiscal person, it's hard to penetrate intellectually somehow further. You've all added a local, regional pot. You know, this topic is also related to the last airport in Maribor, where you threw some 10 million euros and now we hardly know what to do with them. It could be logistically entangled. If you are reading Work today, you are looking at 100 of the largest companies – 1%, which is spinning more than half of GDP, you also have inside, say, Krka in the first place – we still do not have electrified lines to New City, we have Renault there and so on, on this belt. In short, some serious consideration of infrastructure is needed, but of course opinion is not a natural state, as Alenka Zupančič says. If we don't think about it, it's going to be another fiasco, but if we think about it, we're going to make one euro two and a half or three, like some countries that can think do. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Dr. Peter Gaspersich, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u114	Thank you very much. To conclude, I would like once again to point out that there will be no more doubts about the priorities of this project. So, it's not a yes or no project anymore, it's how we do it. I think here the focus of today's debate has been on this direction. If I can sum it up in some way, I think that more or less we have all agreed that we need to find out what this actual value is, that means, to verify its value, to find possible optimization and rationalisation, and to focus our efforts on getting as much European funding for the project as possible, and then on the remainder, to close the financial structure, either with a public-private partnership, which we have found can be difficult and costly and long-lasting, or, as we have now put back on the table, the option of finding solutions within countries within the framework of the public-public partnership in cooperation with the two interested companies that will also benefit most from this project. I expect that this solution will then be feasible and that, in fact, once we have a building permit the second year, we will be prepared for the call for European funds and then we can also start talking about the call for a construction contractor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber has the floor to conclude.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u116	Thank you, Chairman. Notwithstanding the fact that we are not taking decisions today, I think that one important conclusion is precisely the agreement of all the parties who are in Parliament to build the second track. This agreement is certainly the most important right for the economy. If we can do something for the economy, it is that this important investment will happen as soon as possible in Slovenia. This enables economic development not only of the Primorska region, but also of all other regions to which Slovenian railways lead, because all transhipment, all cargo and life depends, especially the functioning of the economy in all regions, whether railways operate or not. If we do not allow them to move as many cargo as possible, they will also be interested to slowly close those lines that are least profitable. And again in Slovenia we will come to a position when the differences between regions increase and do not decrease. So, the impact of this investment is truly remarkable and I would like, Minister, to really reopen in a very short time the debate on the choice of the most appropriate funding options, because the technical aspect and the environmental aspect, and not least the land, all that is needed for this investment, is actually resolved at this level, so that it is not possible to invoke that we do not know something, why this investment would not start. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u117	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate and the 28th item of the agenda. We're moving to 29. Agenda item – Discussion on the response of the Ministry of Agriculture, Agriculture and Food to the business question by Dr. Vinko Gorenak in connection with the planned and used means of the representative. At its 11th meeting, the National Assembly decided to hold a discussion on the response made by the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnetic Nutrition. Mr Židan asked Dr. Vinko Gorenak about the planned and used resources of the representative. I give the floor to Dr Vinko Gorenak for further explanation of the proposal for a discussion on the response of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u118	Thank you very much. First of all, I should like to thank that at least part of the SMC has assessed my question as one that would be appropriate for the general debate at the meeting of the National Assembly; this is rarely the case, but it is obvious that sometimes a miracle occurs. So much for the intro. Otherwise, it must be said that in today's debate we will probably not be able to focus exclusively on the ministry run by Mr Židan, but this is one of the things we will probably have to look at more broadly in our debate, so at least I believe. But the old saying of the people is like this: first sweep before your threshold. Well, I'll do it in this opening part first. When I was alone in the role of Internal Minister in 2012, the Ministry of Interior, thus showing the latest data from Friday’s response to the Government – that is, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, on my proposal, has prepared a comprehensive response on my request, which has been talking about representative funds since 2009, although no one has asked for it. But interestingly, we have this information now at our disposal. According to those data, 12 000 € 840 was spent in the interior ministry at the time of my work for the needs of the representative. This is, of course, information that does not refer to the internal ministry, but also to the police and the Internal Affairs Inspectorate. These funds include, for example, the three-day meeting of the Ministers of the Interior in Brdo – the so-called Presidency of Brdo. By comparison, I can say that my predecessor is Mrs Katarina Kresal – she, we all know how and what – spent about 8 times that much; that is, she spent 78 thousand 154 euros according to the government. My successor, Dr. Virant, also spent more than I did once; in short, he increased it from 12 000 to 22 000 € 581 according to government data. I was also trying to find that bottleneck of mine, and I have to say I'm 19. 11. 2012, I found this in my archive, I asked for accounting if they're providing me with data on how much we spent until then in the narrower part of the Minister's cabinet. The data was as follows. Minister Zalar spent a thousand EUR 212 up to 19 days in a month or a half or a month, as long as he was head of the interior ministry. 11. I have spent €256 on my own as a representation in the cabinet, i.e. throughout the year, to make this account. And let's sweep the front door of John Janša for the introduction, and let's see the numbers. In 2009, a government spent 3 million 626 thousand euros on representation in total, in 2012 the government of Janez Janš spent a million 600 thousand and a few euros, meaning 2 million less than in 2009. The government of Janez Janša also planned funds and adopted a 2013 budget of EUR 478 000 and it must be said that the government of Alenka Bratušek, despite the rebalancing of this figure, has not corrected up. But in 2014 the thing exploded again a little bit, because the costs were a million 771; in short, they were already rising, which of course is not right. In this introductory part – of course I will perform later – in this introductory part I must point out the Ministry of Agriculture, which is headed by Mr Židan. €36 000 and some were planned in 2015 and €57 000 already spent in the first half of the year. This means that the overrun is almost 100% in the first half of the year. By comparison, since the ministry is comparable to each other, in 2012 the then agricultural minister, Mr Bogovic, spent 30,000 euros. All I'd say in the introduction is this. Today's debate, I think, should lead to some conclusions that this National Assembly will not accept, but it would suggest that the Government and things are going to bring them together, because some are really bad consumers, and some of them could not see that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u119	Thank you very much. For further reasons, I give the floor to the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magi Nutrition. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u120	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, a nice greeting! I must say that I am grateful to Mr Gorenak in some way that he has raised this issue, because the results of this issue are such that they should have been addressed before. I am only sorry that, when the finance ministry first sent spending through the ministries of Mr Gorenak, it did not at least inform the individual ministries, which would probably find that something with the original figures is wrong as soon as the number was established. You have also received a report by the government at the end of last week, showing consumption per sector, according to individual ministries, is slightly different than it was sent for the first time. The report also states that individual ministries, together with the finance minister or the ministry, sat together and watched individual accounts as to whether they were properly published and whether they were not properly published. What I'd like to say in the beginning is this. The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food planned 36,000 and a half euros for 2015 – if I round up. According to the data provided by the Ministry of Finance to Mr Gorenak at the time, the number was 65,000. If I am well-written or not well-written, there was a different number, 57 thousand, I apologize, and after these meetings with the Ministry of Finance took place, the number is lower or substantially lower — 18 000 867. But allow me to use these three minutes to describe only the Ministry. The Ministry, you know, has almost a thousand people watching the representation, watching only the Ministry and looking at three bodies, this is the Department of Food Security, which is significantly larger than the Ministry, watching the Agency for Agricultural Markets and the Agricultural Inspectorate, and we are looking at three other types of items: integrated, dedicated, EU funds and co-financing of integral funds, i.e. dedicated items. When it was reviewed, the following was found. It was found that, as you said, at the minister’s team, it seemed to me whether it was said that the ministry had written part of the costs of the Green Week Fair in Berlin. This is a fair funded by our ministry. The total cost is EUR 56,000. There we finance space, arrangement of space and activities lasting 10 days. We take Slovenian agriculture, the Slovenian food and catering sector to promote Slovenian food production and to attract them, as there is also a tourist organisation, to Slovenia. One part of these costs was also paid to the Ministry and an important part of this was removed. The second thing that happened is that you probably know that last year Slovenia was visited by one of the largest Chinese delegations in Europe, led by the Deputy Prime Minister, formally signed on the invitation as Deputy Prime Minister and part of the cost of visiting this delegation came to the Agriculture Ministry. This was not a project of the agricultural ministry, it was a government project and my signature as Deputy Prime Minister and these costs came to the agricultural ministry. However, there is something else I would like to say when I talk about it, it is clear that all the costs that have been written in one way or another have been incurred and have a cause from behind and then also have an effect. I'm just talking about whether they've been published correctly or not. Another thing, at the Ministry of Agriculture, was the book cost of the rural development programme, namely that part of the cost of popularising this programme, information materials, education and the like. This was a tremendous amount that was realized. The rural development programme, which is a big billion 100 must inform, must inform people, must refer to people, must organize events and in any event this cost arises as part of the programme, and the book was at the Ministry of Agriculture for Representation. So the real number at mid-year is €18 000 867 for all four bodies and up to now €26 000 487. But I believe that later I will be able to talk more about this.Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u121	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Matjaž Han will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Mr Gorenak, honourable Minister, honourable motions for this question, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! With the intention of clarifying the use of representative funds, today's debate could serve with a lot of useful information not only for Members and Members, but especially for the public. These, I hope, will not be presented as some kind of performance supported by many populisms in style, we have expensive ministers, a wasteful minister, where we are wasting our taxpayer's money. Why am I talking about this show? We have witnessed this on a recent parliamentary issue. The debate on the use of funds for representation at ministries would, of course, be, and again, I would like to point out, welcome if it were accompanied by a view to listening and, above all, to hear all the arguments or facts. I am surprised, however, that sometimes, but all Members, with the Minister's specific explanations, have pre-prepared scenarios with various popular submissions on various calculations of lunches, scholarships, minimum wages and so on not to mention. It would be good to discuss facts and errors today if they were, of course, done. After all, it's money, tax money. It's always too small, but it's always too much when it falls into a field of manipulation. And we know that to politicians with experience. So I am not overly optimistic that we will avoid today's debates, debates without listening and some clarifications. As one of the opposition Members says, the numbers are important. Of course, I also have important numbers, numbers, and these have been explained in some way. But I think we've all understood how much and why the Ministry has spent this representation. From here on out, it's like you don't speak the same language anymore. Some, of course, are not interested in the Chinese and all who come to us, but I do not understand that some do not understand and do not want to understand the promotion of Slovenia, especially when it comes to rural development or such large visits as Mr Židan said, visits from China. On the other hand, some Members of Parliament are announcing in some way the government's failure to respond, sharing some lessons about how things are served, teaching us what is cost-effective and what is wasteful. The hardest thing to do is look at yourself and put yourself in front of my threshold, but I must say that Mr Gorenak did it correctly in the very presentation of his position. In the past, however, we had some way of preaching how we can settle coffee costs from our pocket and how some deserve a commendation on this trip. I don't think that's the right constructive path. I am of course not well aware of the reasons, respected and respected, why representative funds are distributed through ministries as they are, why they are contraband or recorded in such a way. However, I believe that not just over the thumb, and I know that Minister Dejan Židan will, of course, be able to explain for his department every cent, every euro, for which the means were written on such or other accounts. In the end, however, I would like to say that in some way I will be interested in listening to today’s debate. I believe in some way, but don't be too naive, in the well-intentioned question, but I will try to react in the debate to any manipulation, to every speech that goes through some real basis that will come particularly close to populism. We are social democrats to pour ourselves pure wine, to say what, what and what resources are intended for, but we are not in favour of it, and we know that in this story we cannot win that Minister Dejan Židan, as the only minister in the government, will be pushed to the cross because of the misrepresented accounts or funds that have been in the past. I hope that this debate will go in the right direction and that the public in particular will be the one who can assess who is right and who is wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordish will present the position of the United Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u124	Thank you for your word, chairman. The data on the planned and actual use of money for the representative, provided by the Government to the National Assembly, show the exceptional use of these funds by several ministries. In the first half of the year, Minister Židan spent 157% of the funds on the team. This very poorly excuses with unforeseen costs such as visits by the Chinese delegation and participation at the fair. All of this points to very poor planning; planning, in which they practically set their own limits within the government, is obviously incapable of predicting events for six months in advance. On the one hand, the government advocates saving, sealing the belt and fiscal rule, and on the other hand, its ministers do not look at the restrictions they have set themselves. The short-sightedness of government measures, poor planning, inability to predict short-term measures, but only long-term measures are even symptomatic of this government, and we warn that in the United Left many times already – can silence be there, please, while I represent the position? Thank you. In addition to the minister of the Jews, they were ill-planning or ruthlessly spending money on the team, also Minister Peter Gasperšič, who had spent 295% of the annual allocation at that time. With 221% of its annual consumption, she is followed by Minister Juliana Bizjak Mlakar and 175% by Minister Maja Makovec Brenčič. These data are already worrying in themselves, and it is even more worrying that these figures are clearly bare for the government and that no one, especially the Minister of Finance or the President of the Government, is concerned about these data. As we speak of the representative, we cannot go beyond the enormous representation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which does not go beyond the allocations. However, according to the amount of resources allocated to the representation, it reaches a far-reaching peak of EUR half million per year allocated to the LAG. Reports on the abuse of these representative funds also came this year from the Ministry or more specifically from diplomatic representations. This year we have heard about the abuse of business credit cards, and in the past these funds have been used to buy unreasonable amounts of macola, hacks and other diplomatic tools. In the United Left, we believe that it is unacceptable to exceed the allocated representative resources of certain ministries in this government. In doing so, we wonder whether someone who spends so recklessly or even worse is simply ill-planning, at all, suitable for a minister's post. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u126	Dear President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues! A proposal by the opposition Member or Member of Parliament on the Minister's response to the question was rarely put to the vote. This time, the content of the question, or even more of the answer, is obviously so problematic that the Coalition Members have also attached themselves to it. Transparency is one of the important characteristics of a regulated rule of law. Good budget planning is a guarantee for the smooth functioning of the state and state authorities or budgetary users. The principle of fairness and proportionality can also be expressed through the well-planned budget. From the reply of the Minister of the Jews to the question of the mission, this is not to be seen. The Minister has already exceeded the planned funds for representation at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food until autumn for a total of EUR 20 000. We would rather not even think about how much the surplus at the end of the year will be. We are surprised that a visit by the Chinese delegation was included in the costs of this year's team last November. How is that possible? We Christian Democrats are not pleasantly surprised because these facts point to two; either very poor budget planning at the agriculture ministry or excessive waste. In today’s state of agriculture and forestry, this is, to put it mildly, unseemly. From the point of view of the whole budget, this is not a huge resource, but the budget order begins with smaller amounts. He who is faithful in a small way is also faithful in the great. How many minimum wages and how many farm pensions could we pay out of this spending? We believe that the Minister of the Jews must make the planning and implementation of the budget necessary for his ministry. Use should be clear, transparent and cost-effective.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Ms Urška Ban will present the position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u128	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I will also briefly present the position of the SMC Group on the subject under consideration, or on the agenda of today's meeting. By 2009, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia had already adopted a Regulation on the costs of representation governing the use of representation funds, the limitation of costs and the keeping of records of representation costs for all government budgetary users. In this way, an area has been regulated in a uniform manner, which has been very different before the adoption of the Regulation. The adoption of the Regulation was also one of the austerity measures aimed at reducing the costs of representation. On the contrary, these amounts have not increased since 2009, which has contributed to a more rational use of funds for the purposes of the representation. The budgetary users are those who are liable under the limits laid down by the Regulation to use the means under the pre-condition of adequate planning. The costs of representation for all government authorities at the level of the applicant of the financial plans were significantly reduced after the adoption of the already mentioned Regulation in 2009, as has already been said. If we look at concrete consumption over the last few years, we find out the following. In 2007, the total cost of representation was EUR 7.5 million, in 2008 EUR 12.5 million. In 2009, 2010 and 2011, €2.5 million, that was in the years following the adoption of the Regulation, and in 2012-2014 this expenditure did not exceed €1.5 million. What do these costs cover and include that we will talk about today? In accordance with the Regulation, the costs incurred by the Authority for cooperation with natural and legal persons are incurred as a result of the following events: frequentation at official and working meetings, working and official breakfasts, receptions, ceremonies and receptions, which are part of the preparation and implementation of protocol events as defined in the Protocol Rules Act concerning the President of the Government of Slovenia and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Slovenia; frequentation at expert seminars and conferences organised by the Authority; and the purchase of occasional gifts and other representation costs following a special and written explanation of the decision of the Head of the Authority. This spending must therefore be put into a broader concept, since it is not just a matter of spending and spending on budgetary resources, but it can be seen as part of economic diplomacy, which is also reflected in positive effects, for example, on trade change and consequently higher economic growth. The 2015 budget allocated €1.5 million to the state authorities for this kind of cost of representation; in the first half of the year a total of some more than €750,000 or around 49% of the planned funds were realised. Implementation therefore does not exceed the planned values. At the annual level in 2015, the costs of representation represent a low 0.02% of the total budget of the Republic of Slovenia. If I now specifically focus on the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, this was planned for the entire ministry in 2015 by €36 000,429, on the sub-committee for representation. Of these, some more than 17,000 euros and 19 000 euros in earmarked funds, and no expenditure was planned by the Ministry for EU funding and Slovenian participation. During the first six months, the Ministry spent just over €57 000 500 on the team, which exceeds the planned amount. Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food Magi. In fact, the high expenditure on representation was explained by two events, which were not or could not have been foreseen for objective reasons during the budget planning phase, but which took place this year, with the Ministry hosting a large visit from the Chinese delegation, and co-financed participation in the German fair. A significant share of the representation budget was also spent on promoting the Rural Development Programme, according to the minister's words. Certainly, in the SMC Group, we believe that the successful promotion of Slovenia and its great potential in agricultural activities is crucial. The promotion of Slovenian agricultural products increases the competitiveness of Slovenian agriculture and is also important for raising the level of visibility of Slovenia as a tourist distillation in the target public. The question is, however, whether the resources for the representation are being recorded and planned in accordance with the single accounts plan, which is an integral part of the Rules on the Single Account Plan for the Budget, the budgetary users and other public law persons, and the above-mentioned Regulation governing the use of representation funds, the limitation of representation costs and the maintenance of the record of representation costs for all government budgetary users. According to the Regulation, the costs of organising promotional events and promotional gifts for the purposes of presenting the Republic of Slovenia at home and abroad are not among the costs of representation. The Court of Auditors also notes and draws attention to irregularities in individual books in the audit reports of the final accounts of the Republic of Slovenia’s budget each year. What can happen, then, that the amounts on the accounts due to administrative errors in quotations do not reflect the actual situation, but usually show higher amounts than actual ones. In the SMC Group, we therefore expect from all budget consumers that the funds for representation and, of course, for all the other budget items will be planned first in accordance with the realisation assessment for the following year and then spent and recorded in accordance with the rules of the profession. In today's particular case, which is the main topic of the debate, we expect the Minister to answer all the questions and explain or provide a more detailed report on the use of funds for the representation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u129	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u130	Thank you very much. I'll continue where I left off earlier because I'm running out of time. But I was going to say the following. When a person reads these numbers, he wonders whether the government has any influence on a particular area — as I explained earlier to you about the use of these funds for representation. I had already explained earlier how in 2012 during the Janša government, as was the case in 2013 when Alenka Bratušek, the then Prime Minister of the Government followed and did not raise these funds, and in 2014 these funds had already increased significantly. But this year, if trends go as far as the first half of the year, the increase will be even more enormous. One more thing to say is, look, the foreign ministry is one of those who spends a lot, but interestingly, in 2012, when the same minister was there as in 2014 or in 2015, there was 476 thousand. But it's 550 grand this year. It is said that a single minister or the Prime Minister or government can influence ministers and let them land a little bit more or allow them to walk a little higher. An individual can also influence, a fine example of an individual’s influence is actually the president of the country if you look closely at the numbers. See, in 2009, it was planned there because Mr Danilo Türk, planned for 278 000 euros, was a year later the same, in 2011 as 345 thousand euros. With Mr Pahor's arrival, 200 000 euros will fall, 200,000 euros will fall, and 132 euros will go even to 107. Personally, I believe that in this year he has probably already fallen so much that he will no longer come with these numbers through. But I wanted to point out the following. Look, we have two structures that are quite comparable; an army on one side and a police on the other. One of them has 6,000 employees, one of them has 8,000, the police have a lot more employees. The police have this structure all over the country, you know that every former congregation has a police station and so on. Now look at the figures for this year: the Ministry of Defence 195 000 euros, the Ministry of Interior 17,000 euros, by the fact that the Ministry of Defence has actually spent almost everything, no, it has already gone half way, so I must say, but the interior hasn't spent half. I wonder what criteria and criteria we have. In the second answer to my question, the government interprets how the criteria are clear, how they are prescribed, how everything is clear as a day. Yeah, I don't! How, by what logic, someone can defend 195 thousand euros, and someone in internal affairs can have 17,000 euros for these purposes. It doesn't make any sense. I know that logic because I felt it on my own skin. Go take a look at the director of the Ljubljana Police Administration with 2 000 employees and he has no euro to keep us clear. No euro! If you come into the role of the Commission for the supervision of security and intelligence services to him and if he says, you will drink coffee, know that he paid for it himself or bought a kilo of coffee at the store and brought it to the secretary. What do I want to point out with these numbers? I would like to point out that things are completely out of proportion and out of order, and the government claims that they are settled – at least in response to the question from yesterday. I will, in part, respond to what Mr Jew has been saying right now in this performance. Look, 28. 8. The same government with the same Prime Minister and all ministers sat there like now, confirm the answer to my question and say that it was the first half of the year – listen to the number! - 751 thousand and some spent money. And then there's 23. 10. it is said that it has been two months, and the same government in the same premises, with the same ministers and with the same finance minister and with the same MFRAC, that we are on the clear side, that is, the programme that records these matters, tells my question, which I have not asked at all, but they have now announced once again that they have spent 776 000 euros or 25,000 more. So we have two responses from the same government, the same ministers two months apart, and the difference is 25,000 euros. Now I can't explain myself anymore. If I'm listening to Minister Jew now, then don't sit here with the right man. Then it would be better to say we'll continue the second time, and I've called a worse, more expensive minister. But the problem is in the government, not in me, not now, to watch me look fat if this same government reports different data twice. You, too, Minister, have been informed at first that you have spent 58 000 euros, and now there are 18,000 euros at once. It is difficult to say that we can continue the debate and are critical of the minister who is here with us, whether any other minister should sit here. I really don't know anymore. But you must answer that, which is in the coalition, you who make up the government, I have no influence on this government as an opposition MP. Minister, you know, what you said, and the green week, and the Chinese delegation -- eh, what can I tell you? Rural programme – it is a regulation. I'm not saying you guys ate those lunches with your friends or anything, that would be unfair. But I don't know, well, the rural program doesn't belong in the representation, well, it's a regulation that says it's lunches, business gifts, that, that, that, that. But it's specifically prescribed for abroad. And it's particularly specific what doesn't belong to the cost of representation, say. Then, say, rent a place. I doubt that's the cost of the team. Then the Chinese delegation, I don't know, the Chinese delegation was with us in November 2014. I allow the possibility that the accounts were sent creatively two months later. I don't know, it can be written in January, I don't know. But we don't have that information. In short, I have a problem with how the government communicates this. If the budget, if the number is 750 thousand, which is less than one million, is confused by 25 euros, 25 thousand euros, now give it to 8 billion. If you give it to 8 billion, you can get it wrong for 800 million — for one railway line down there, or how? So, we can have a closing account where a $800 million error — so what? This is not right, ladies and gentlemen. It's really not okay. However, from the point of view of the Group of Members I am in, I would like to say a few words. The government is kind of confusing. I'm not sure that we have the right minister to massage him and tell him that he was ill-planning or over-expenditure because we now have double data. Should somebody else be here then, or what? It would be dangerous to talk today about the minister who is with us, because others are bigger consumers, but less justified, in my opinion. Secondly, it would be very embarrassing to talk about percentages. If we were talking about percentages, the Minister of Economy should be sitting here. He's over 100 percent. But it'd be unfair again if he had three grand planned. My dears, if someone was planning 3,000 Euros for him, let's say. Yeah, how am I supposed to get through this now? So it would be inappropriate to attack him. On the other hand, on the one hand, we have individual ministries and individual budget consumers, and perhaps even those who are not ministries, you can look at in the government's reply from the 23rd month, published on the portal of the National Assembly, and you will see that we have on one side of the ministry that this government should seriously scrutinize to them on this item. On the other hand, we have ministries that behave, I won't say, too austerity. I've been so alone that I've asked people to buy coffee in the office themselves, and so have I. So the goal is some kind of unification, in my opinion. Only the government in this reply, which was forwarded on Friday, says that everything is fine, that the criteria and criteria are clear, they sent new numbers, they made a mistake for 25 euros, and they haven't apologized yet. If only they'd apologized that that information was wrong! So I don't know if I have the right data from July or if it's the right data from last Friday. At least if someone had written this, they would have sent such an answer to the National Assembly, and I'd say that the data was wrong. If I was evil, if I was evil, then I would now call the minister with all those parliamentary lunches and how many pensions he's spent, and how many minimum wages he's spent, and so on. In fact, the government signed all of this under an answer. And the minister has nothing to say about it. The government has signed. But the government sent another answer, which is completely different. So we have a problem. Anyway, we have a problem. Globally, ladies and gentlemen, this must also be said, in the global view, we have been severely reduced in the last six years. Janez Janša is the most ruling, and now the trend is up again. Now it would be very good if you paid little attention to these matters in the budget that we are about to adopt, and if you tickle some minister for about 10 or 20 grand on the team. In fact, for this year, look, for 2015, a million and a half are planned, but spent in the first 6 months of 860 thousand, I'm reporting government data. If it goes that way, if it goes as far as the end of the year, we will, you will, our ministers and everyone else will spend 189 thousand more than they are allowed, more than they are allowed to. And it's a good thing we're talking about this. I've got some standing out to pull out in this position. Look, we have very modest consumers who will be very ungrateful to those who follow them. For example, the President of the National Assembly will be unappreciated by his successor. Why? Since the President of the National Assembly has severely reduced spending and has nothing to report to him, we are in the National Assembly at 24, 25 thousand at that time, although the plan was 70,000, once in 2009, and 143 thousand. So this is a severe reduction. The same is true, say, for the Constitutional Court, in a few years it fell from 40,000 to 12,000 if you want; the same is true for the President of the Republic, it fell, it fell badly. Of those, I'm sorry, Mr Türk's snobbish times have fallen to this day. But on the other side, we have a rising upward. Now I don't know which are the most accurate according to the government's strange answers. The KPK, for example, there is no splintering, increased by 100 per cent from 2009, 2010 to today. True, it is small numbers, but they have increased by 100 percent. Sova, interestingly, if I say one percent, 700 percent went up from 2009 to 2014. But it's true that the numbers in common are small, that we're clear, and that's small, and that's true. Government Office for Slovenians – see, perhaps this minister would be suitable for sitting here. I don't, no, nothing, Mr. Prikl, don't sigh, there's gonna be some kind of microphone going to break. In 2009, there was consumption of €8,000 127 and in 2014 there was €15 000. Yeah, he's gonna have to tell him it's not gonna be okay, and that 8 grand will be sent somewhere else, like, during retirement, and it would be totally fine. And we could count it, and we could count it. You'll find as many numbers as you want, as many numbers as you want. To conclude this position; we will not vote, you know that we will not vote, but it would be appropriate that at least the leader of the largest parliamentary group that is not, perhaps the president of the National Assembly, who is also with us, who is also among those who are more stingy or unexpensive, raises the voice in the government a little bit and achieves that the government does not behave the way it does when it says, because it is okay, we have a regulation, we have a regulation for spending abroad, we have everything prescribed, everything is not arranged – it is not arranged! Ladies and gentlemen, it's not arranged! At the finance ministry, they must sit down as a result of this debate, in my opinion, and they must write down a new regulation and use a few more brains in the planning of representative funds in addition to the old numbers, in my opinion. Then we won't get into a situation where, as I said earlier, these two numbers, what you're going to have, I don't know, 195 thousand euros in defence, and 17,000 in internal affairs. It's unfair to those people working there. So, to all employees in internal affairs, it's totally unfair. With the Foreign Minister, I am fully aware, we are clear that I am aware that the costs of representation, ambassadors and so on and so on are counted inside. I am aware of this, but if every ambassador has money for the needs of the team, then let me tell you that the director of the Ljubljana Police Administration also deserves a party because now he has zero. Yes, in this context, I imagine this unification, but in this context I imagine some new methodology for planning representative funds, because the real defence is coming out, it has to be acknowledged, and we do not see any element by which defences should leave so much resources. They also stand out, if you want, foreign affairs, partly justified for the reasons they are, but for all others I no longer know, and not for the Minister who is with us at all, given that the Government sends such information once and for all. I think it would be good to continue with patience and to lead to a goal that will be called the unification of these criteria, so that there will be some optimal use of these funds, which on the one hand will not, I will say, individual function holders or whatever puts them in a position where they will be ashamed to receive any foreign statesmen, because we can also have this. On the other hand, of course, those who really have too much will simply delete and take it away from them. That would be the point, I think, of today's debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u131	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr. Franc Jurša has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u132	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greeting also to the Minister, the proposed colleague Gorenak and, of course, to all of you in the hall! In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we have always felt that the resources of the representatives of budget consumers must be carefully planned and used. This, however, is accompanied by the competent institutions, the services, but it is also appropriate for us to ask a question of the Member State every so long. We understand this because colleague Gorenak cut his ears when he read the data on the costs of the representative in the agricultural ministry, but at the same time I must admit that Minister Židan answered him very correctly and in particular precisely. He listed unforeseen costs that sometimes appear, but also discussed complications with individual sub-contracts and changes that would be necessary. It's all good and good. Unfortunately, there has been a populist implementation, which we have never, and we do not now support, in the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, because we believe that Parliament is a place for a calm and meaningful debate based on the facts, and we have witnessed a lesson from higher mathematics by our colleague Gorenak. He has provided us with calculations of how many lunches, scholarships or farm pensions represent the resources of a representative of the ministries. Comrade Gorenak, as you know, we pensioners, socially endangered, take very seriously. In the Member State of Common Desus, we strive to make it possible for them to live a decent life, which is obvious at the time of this year's adoption of the budget. We are also taking the Institute of State seriously, which means, among other things, how we represent ourselves abroad. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which you immediately raised in your question, is not in the country but is represented abroad. I'm sure you know that the costs of the ministry's representation include more than 50 diplomatic-consular representations. I am also sure that you have looked at the data showing that the Ministry spent only 39% of the funds envisaged over the six months. So why flip numbers like that? We voted against such a debate in the Member States' Common Desus because we know from experience where it will turn. After a severe blow to the first ball, we expected that in a desire for a quick goal, at least after some of the data presented, you would calm it down and create a field checkup. But no, now all of us here again are facing a painful game in the middle of the court and accepting a simulation of injuries. To think about all those who voted in favour of today's debate, do you really think that these conditions in which our country is located are suitable for political pingpong? In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we do not think so.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u133	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. First of all, Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word "proposer."
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u134	Thank you very much. I think I started off extremely correctly. I don't know, but now, Mr. Jurša, since you're screwing with the wrong people, you'll hear the following. The planned funding for the foreign affairs ministry is EUR 517 000, which is half a million. Horrible big. 228 000 euros have been spent. You, when you stand up for the pensioners, but not for the workers – we know what it is like, 900 minimum wages. 900 minimum wages. By the end of 2015 it will be 2 000 280 farm pensions. Mr. Jursha, 2,000 280 farm pensions is it! By the end of 2015, it will be 86 thousand 116 luxurious parliamentary lunches, those we eat down here. Six Euros for one. Sometimes they ask me if we have any foreign recognized chefs from France, but we know. But if you wanted to hear it, you obviously want to hear it because you attacked me, but you're gonna get me back. Look, you're Members, I've been counting on ten, I think you're eleven now. Look, that's 8 thousand 611 lunches on Member Desus or 32 years can all eat for free down here. All members of Desus can eat for free for 32 years down here, spending so much on the foreign minister's team. Unfortunately, I had to tell you this, despite being able to tell any other minister, but they were others, I think they're more correct in these performances. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u135	The Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magi Food has the floor. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u136	Thank you, Mr. President. I just want to answer, earlier on, the question was whether the ministry had planned to participate in the Green Week Fair as a whole. The entire amount was planned by the Ministry, as part of the plan is participation at the Agra and Natura Fair here in Ljubljana. But it was all on the line of the Public Relations and Promotion Service, and then it was published, I think, 12 thousand -- now I'm talking about something -- under the Ministry. But it's a project that's planned, and it's not one we didn't plan for. Similarly, as regards the Rural Development Programme. We are also aware here, we have to plan here under the regulation, but it is true that it was planned only at the end of the material and service, not on the right sub-contract. Well, it was planned, but I've already said that the mistakes that have happened have actually improved now. In fact, in the books themselves, I have had quite a conversation with our people, who both at the Ministry and at the authorities then wrote on the sub-contracts and on the basis of this was also my request, asking for the direction of the competent director at the Ministry of Finance to be discussed, so that we will have the same or similar opinion on some matters. On this basis, this table, which was forwarded and which is different than it was transmitted two months ago, is also available. I admit that, the only thing I would want is for the first time to get the ministry a table in sight, where we would find a logical error that somewhere, if 36,000 euros were planned and then the table shows 60,000 euros in use, you would immediately wonder what happened. Was it really wasted, or was everything well written, as it should have been? I regret that, in fact, the Ministry of Finance did not send us, as did some other ministries, in order to respond in a timely manner, and I believe that even today's debate might not be possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u137	Mr. Zvonko Lah has the floor. Prepare Mrs Ludmila Novak and Mr Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u138	Thank you very much, President for your word, a nice greeting to the Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I would like to join Mr Gorenak's debate, given that not EUR 58 000 has been spent on this ministry, but EUR 18 000. We have nothing to report, and we would not be able to go against EUR 58 000 if it were used according to the ministry, which the Minister is leading. I have said several times in my discussions that if we fail, let's go look at why the neighbours are doing it, and it would probably be useful to use some means to make the ministry more operational or send some officials abroad to see how the neighbours do it. Therefore, it is not an obvious use of the funds itself if the funds are usefully spent, they are also economically used and I do not think it would be difficult to justify them. That's what this is about. It is very difficult to plan at the beginning of the year when the budget is drawn up, how many representatives will be spent by a specific ministry regardless of previous years. And then spend as much as was planned. I think we have already left that period of the planned economy, but we need to behave rationally and also today's situation in the country. The period of fat cows has passed, and this is how it must be done. At the Ministry of Agriculture, however, I think that the ministry is slightly different. We also had a few visits to agriculture committees from other countries, and we were invited ourselves, which I think is very useful for the work of the Committee and Parliament. [[…]] Although there is no such practice in other ministries, it could also be on a large scale, with a view to seeing a little abroad, as it is no longer forbidden to go out as it used to be, but to see something. I think it would be very useful. Even when I was active in local self-government, we went to see how municipalities, local self-government works in those countries that have a 50- and multi-year tradition, and we were very excited about how quickly, in a few years, on the right path and also doing a lot; but the thing stopped for the past 25 years, and we didn't do much. Therefore, I think that any such allegations, if really justified, are not justified, even if so much more money has been spent. However, it would probably be necessary for each minister, not just for himself, but also for his officials, to plan these funds in a timely and cost-effective manner. And if a report is made, if the results are from these visits, then there is no problem with these funds spent. I think that the government also has a procedure or some appropriate way to control or control this and that the planning of these funds is also substantively determined where these funds will go. That's it. That's it. I don't see any money being spent if it's useful. Of course, it is the responsibility of the Minister himself and the Prime Minister, where these funds are spent and how much they are spent.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u139	Mrs. Ludmila Novak has the floor. Prepare Mr Marijan Pojbič and Mr Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u140	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Mr. Secretary! I tell you a lot about our field visits. Well, I remember at least three things that I'd like to point out today. I was in a chocolate shop where my owner complained that he had been visited by inspectors, had taken samples of chocolate, and because two chocolates didn't contain all the ingredients, he got an 800 euro bill. Can you imagine how much chocolate he has to sell for this money? When we visit the cheese shop, the owner tells us, you know, we sold on the market, and a few euros didn't count – I don't know, €4.5 or what she said – I think she said they got a thousand euros in fines from the inspector. I've been to a fair, and I'm sorry to hear that lady who's curly doughnuts, that she's afraid of having an inspector come, because people leave her 10, 20 cents, and not everything is the way it should be in my cash register. Can you imagine, Mr. Minister, what punishment would you get if you were visited by inspectors and punished by these criteria, as punished by these poor people? I think we could've gotten to almost a million, given the amount of money. I believe you haven't eaten too much. I hope you don't mind me saying many times that you've lost weight. I believe you didn't put that money in your pocket either, and I believe that our visits, our guests, should also be properly served. I agree with all of this, but if we have €36 or €37 000 planned for this, but we have to be careful if we use more than once, then the whole balance is needed. And if your officials have written so wrongly, then I think we'd deserve some punishment, or the rules aren't all right, or they don't know exactly how to deal with it. So, at least, things need to be arranged so that they will be accurate, that there will be no need to say what was wrong, but above all that funds will also be used rationally, cost-effectively and indeed for the purposes that are necessary. Then I ask you who and what we promoted at the Grüna Woche – that is, I am asked by a citizen. If you explain this and the number in the delegation is not limited. Look, we're getting to the big absurds. I once replaced our member in the Foreign Policy Committee, where they decided whether he would come from another country in a delegation of two or three because only two were from our delegation in another country. And they wrote that they would pay their own costs, and we wanted to say no. After I receive an invitation from one of our local organisations as a member of the Slovenian Commission and the former Minister to go to a major event, I do not get any transportation, I have to do it at my own expense, because it seems good and important that I attend such a meeting because of the Slovenians, not because of myself. Is that not specified, or is that not limited? Was it some kind of party exchange if he came? It is true that China is a great country, including a strong economy, but that there is a 150-member delegation, and we honor it, and I don't know why. Do we not have any limitations? Of course, every ministry does not have the same tasks, so one ministry needs more money than the other, and I understand that. Sometimes we compare the impossible. I remember well the comparison that I traveled abroad several times as Minister Erjavec, but I am sure that one of his journeys cost much more than my trip by car to Trieste or Celovac, even though it was part of my work. So we can manipulate things like this. I want you to make order in your ministry as well, or the government to adopt some uniform criteria for this area, because I do not think it is acceptable for them to be able to export at least – and it is right that we are rational and cost-effective – but somewhere the use of these funds is not over. So that you have some uniform criteria, uniform criteria, and above all, that you plan to participate in this Grüne Woche fair in Berlin, then we probably knew that and we could plan it. If the delegation were 150 members, we probably did not know, but we should also set some criteria and restrictions. This is how I want to establish order in this area and then there would be no need for such debates.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u141	The Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magi Food has the floor. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u142	Thank you. Let me answer you, Madam Member, because you specifically asked me about the Green Week in Berlin. The Green Week is fully planned, but I said that within the Public Relations Service, the amount of money that was planned did not go too far. The Ministry there finances an exhibition space of 150 square meters, including just the arrangement of the exhibition space, guests are due to Slovenian food, but there is agriculture and food production itself; different years, we take one year along with, say, beekeepers, as a promotion of beekeeping tourism and bees in Slovenia, then tourist farms, then food companies that want to be present. The total cost of this is EUR 56,000. However, I would like to point out that this is essentially the 10-day fair, the largest such fair, and it is attended by half a million people, especially Germans, as well as many others. This may also cause us to increase our food exports to Germany from year to year for a few million. Maybe that's why we came to 10 billion mutual trade last year, but I think there's still a good billion services. Allow me, but I would like to read the opinion of two participants from this year's presentation. First is the Milky Way Celeia. Let me read: "For us, attending the fair was another positive experience. We had the opportunity to communicate and sell to final consumers, and in this way we have come up with very useful information about what a German customer is actually looking for on shelves in stores. We have also received the contact of the Kaiser Chamber of Commerce, which we will contact in the coming days and agree on a meeting. From business to business meeting we promised ourselves much more, but it has to be said that this, though, was the new Grüne Woche project, which has not yet come to life this year, and here were our disappointments. As far as we are concerned, the Slovenian exhibition space is well arranged, and we have all been able to represent our country, at least as far as we are concerned. In addition, Pivka and Delamaris were present, which is now a kind of joint venture. Let me also read their opinion: "We were very pleased with the seed, what we were looking for, we got, and this is the feedback of ordinary people. As far as the Ministry is concerned, there are no comments. We would like this enthusiasm to continue even after the fair, in particular in the search for new contacts and events throughout Germany and across Europe." So, the fair was a unique experience. I have to tell you, I hope there will be no obvious, I am leaving in a week with a delegation of 33 Slovenian companies to China, also where the ministry finances participation in the fair and exhibition space. I believe that, also because of our activities, the food exports last year amounted to, I think, a million 700, a year earlier, a million 200 this year, I think, almost 4 million in six months, and ambitions, in particular in the field of winemaking, are very large, and also the dairy industries, which we have now opened up to them the market. But I'm going right after them to Montenegro, again with the economists, because the economy wants, so the food sector, to help them open the door through these activities. By going to Montenegro, this ministry does not finance participation in the fair because it is not, but the economists are going to do a business to business conference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u143	The replica of Mrs. Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u144	Maybe you misunderstood me. I have nothing against promotion. It takes promotion, but the representation is something else. That's why these things need to be separated, as you've already figured out.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u145	The word has magic. Dejan Židan, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u146	We're actually talking, Madam Ambassador, too. I am also aware that the financing of the fair, in fact, is a promotion, this cannot be a representative of the Minister or the Ministry of Agriculture. But it was written in the amount that Mr Gorenak was talking about, 57 thousand, and that was also inside. That's why I'm saying that I'd rather have a future finance minister send the data to you before he sends it to you, despite all the departments in the field, because we don't need to check the accounts. When we see individual numbers, we will know whether there is a logical error or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u147	Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the floor as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Well, some misunderstandings need to be cleared up. Minister, you say you didn't get the data. That's not true. I would have believed that if I hadn't been a minister, but I was, but I know that every answer to the question of the message is confirmed at a government meeting. It is said that the rule of the agenda, from 1 to 63 normally, also confirms this. This means that if you didn't object – I don't know, I wasn't there at the government meeting – that means that you voted in favour of my first answer and then you voted in favour of my second answer now. We need to be clear that something's not going to be right here. It's not the finance ministry that owes you an introduction, but I'm aware that the minister can't – I was, I know what it looks like. I know the Minister can't read 260 agenda items. Well, we all know that, but in government it's like, from 1 to 60, it was against, it wasn't accepted. That's right. But you do, we do, or we do, or you still have officials to do that, but you can study any text that's in the government, and you have an official to warn the minister. That's right. That's what we have to say. It's part of that thing. You know, we're completely out of touch with this now, and those, and they're costing China and Montenegro and so on. For this reason, we should read this regulation – a single article in fact, the cost of representation is "increasing at official and working meetings" – I know that I have never benefited from it, which is clear, and the police chiefs from all over the country were "working and official breakfasts, lunches and dinners..." It's all in there, but I know I never had it. Further, "acceptances" – frequencies at receptions – further "fested meals and receptions which are part of the preparation and implementation of the protocol events defined by the Act..." and so on and so on. Then there are frequents and lunches at expert seminars, conferences organised by the body. I can see that all the police chiefs could go out and buy lunch, but I never did, and I don't know what they thought of me. Furthermore, the purchase of opportunities for gifts and other costs of representation following a special written decision of the chairman in advance. So, if we're very correct, there are very few things in here, very few things; it's called frequentations, some receptions, snacks, some lunches, blah, blah, flower arrangements, and we're done. This belongs in here. Now I understand even less why the Minister for Foreign Affairs spends so much, even less! He spends half a million dollars on frequency. Yeah, I don't get it. I'm sorry. Now I understand even less. And then he says exactly what's not the cost. However, the costs are not the costs of protocol gifts defined by protocol rules – this is more of a matter for the President of the country, I do not know, probably Parliament or anything else, the Government – the costs of organising promotional events and promotional gifts for the purpose of presenting the Republic of Slovenia at home and abroad. This does not belong to a representative and probably to the Ministry's material costs, I think. Furthermore, the costs of representing representatives and representatives to international institutions and so on and so on. In short, if we're very honest with each other, let's put it this way: it's more like a sacrifice than a sacrifice. Yeah, that's what we say in Styrian, it's a sacrifice! Well, whatever we take it for granted, that's how it is. It is true, however, that if ministers or ministries and other consumers of state money stick to all of this, then for me a million and a half I know how much was planned, 2 and a half is used in last year's very big, forgive the expression. That's a hell of a big one. If this is happening, as the minister says, to have difficulty in writing and so on, I cannot control it, but I resent the Government, which sends completely different data to the National Assembly within two months. What, then, should we think about the budget and the final account? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u149	Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor. Prepare Mr Franz Jurša and Mr Jan Škoberne.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u150	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. In opening, I must say that I am pleased with this debate, and I think that all those who voted in favour of this debate have done so honestly and responsibly, especially for this reason or this aspect. All of us, I am sure, who are sitting in this national assembly, regardless of any political affiliation, are still aware that in Slovenia the public sector is spending more than practically in this country. If we are aware of this, it is logical that we are all responsible for the operation of this country, and I am sure that what we are discussing today has a broader context, but it is also not a detail. However, if we compare this with the fact that the Slovenian state is in charge of EUR 30 billion and that we are paying an annual billion 200 million interest, then this is very little compared to this; but it is extremely important when we talk about how to manage the costs of this country. All of us sitting in this House are still aware that this is absolutely necessary and that it is not possible to do so, and that it will be easier for all of us who are sitting in this Parliament – regardless of who is in power and who is in opposition. Dear colleagues and colleagues, for this wastement at this point, when in some part we extend the measures from the ZUJF to those most vulnerable groups, on the other hand, let us afford one such as my colleague Vinko spoke, rich lunches, rich receptions and so on. I have to say here, and that is right to say, because I also think that colleague Vinko said that here the National Assembly is performing its function extremely rationally and, Mr President, I also commend you. I appreciate that. If we are in a critical situation, if we are in a difficult situation, such, economic and social, it is right that all structures in this country behave rationally and responsibly. But after what is evident from these documents that we have here before us, some ministries live like little gods, act like little gods, speak plainly: we misread the matter, we did it wrong, we did it wrong. That's an excuse. Then they act here in Parliament as if they were victims of a process against them. That's the most amazing thing I've ever seen. That's what's driving me crazy. That's the most amazing thing I've ever seen. Slovenian citizens and citizens, I am sure that these tricks of such gentlemen will no longer sit and sit down, because they will repeatedly and repeatedly pay for these bastards of these people who are finally trying to get out of this story as a victim of some attack by some quasi opposition and so on. Please! Responsible treatment of taxpayers’ money must begin, regardless of which party, who is and so on. One more thing, we are discussing 2015 today, and we are not talking about 2008 or 2009 or 2010 or so on. It is right that we are talking about this year and the problems that are here today, because what has happened in the past, none of you can change anymore. But what is today can be adapted to the needs and solutions of our future together. Dear colleagues and colleagues, in the 2015 budget, EUR 1.54 million is allocated to the national representative bodies. If I convert this into minimum wages, that's 2,000 gross minimum wages, 5,000 600 social assistance and 7 thousand 700 minimum pensions. Dear colleagues, if this does not mean anything to you in this House, these figures mean nothing to you when we have more than a third of the people on a minimum wage and half or more pensioners on these lowest pensions, if that does not mean anything to you – and here, of course, I challenge and urge Desus to start thinking rationally and because he sits in the government, not only do they have their ministers in the government, but also appropriate in such situations of action. It shall act and not allow such high projected expenditure in the budget when the budget is adopted. You have all the legitimacy, you have all the votes, you're in the coalition many times. If you did not allow this to be almost 1.6 million funds planned to be spent for representation in these state bodies, this would not be the case. It would be 800 000, 700 000, 600 000 and the rest would be distributed to those who have 220 euros in pensions. Then it would not be, and those who have 220 pensions, perhaps 280 or 290, might at least be able to pay checks out of it. The most urgent ones necessary. That is why I ask you very much that no one in this House is moving. No one's cheating! We are in some state, in some situation where there is an urgent need to respond thoughtfully, responsibly and rationally. This is what citizens and citizens expect from us. We can't and can't excuse what happened yesterday, the day before yesterday, I don't know when, because we can't change that, I've already said that in the beginning. We are here today, people expect it from us today; today, how they will live tomorrow, tomorrow and so on. We are also very well aware of all those sitting here in Parliament. Back in this refugee crisis, where we spend almost a million a day on refugees. We all say that everything is O.K. and that the government is doing well and so on and so forth. How long do we have to hold on to this? No one's asking. Our poor people, those who work for a minimum wage, cannot survive from month to month, and those with these small pensions and those with social assistance. We look at it as if everything is running normally in this country, and all these ministers of this government, and so on, I listen every day, there is no problem, we are super controlling this situation, we are super controlling this situation. Come to Shentyl to see, I'm from Shentyl's home. Dear colleagues, come and see how we control all things. We control in sayings, but we are far from real reality. And when the brains of everyone sitting in this House and the government representatives, the ministers responsible, are lit by a light in the brain, they will only understand the real situation in this country. Only then will the moment come when they can start to think real and act accordingly. I think the Slovenian people deserve that. We are obliged here to do everything to ensure security for the normal functioning of the Slovenian people. It's our job, all of us sitting here, whether you're in the opposition or in the coalition. Dear colleagues, for the end. I hope that all those who are responsible and responsible in this country now that you have authority in your hands, the ministers who run the individual departments will be so much more careful that the taxpayer's money will be used as rationally as possible and that we will reduce costs where they can be reduced. That we don't spend more than what we're producing, and that we once lower these interest rates, a billion 200 a year, in the sum that these citizens and citizens can survive. Entrepreneurs, craftsmen and all that, can also function normally in this society. When we all understand this together, we can think that we will all step forward together. If anyone thinks that one of us is accusing one another here today, the other defends that we have achieved what we have achieved — no, we need to get to the bottom of the truth, we need to clear things up and realize that we must all find the right solutions that will be acceptable to all of us in this country. That we will not have on one side a narrow group, those, as I say, banditry that have robbed this country – they do not answer anything today. When will it take time for these bankers and those thieves who stole our banking complete system to block a few billion so that they can afford their assets, theirs, all the nearest ones, and so on? Let them prove where their assets come from, or they can't touch it, and the money has to come back into the budget and then we won't need to bother and fight for every little thing here and look at every euro, even though it's in every normal country and every household. But we would not need to do that if we knew each other in a timely and rational manner — when that possibility was still there. Now that you owe this country up to 30 billion there, this situation is now significantly, significantly more difficult. Do you know what €1 billion 200 million means if you converted it into minimum wage? Does anyone know how to calculate that? Let him figure it out, please, and that's what the number says. Then it is better for us all to hide and run away from this House, because we must be ashamed of ourselves here, in a way or another, because it is untasteful what we have done with our country. What we've done to our nation, what we've done to those who live from month to month who can't even pay the bills. And so on and so forth. Mr Židan, it is right that you do not really speak from a level there from above, and you are playing that the person who is number one in this country in the agriculture ministry is also committed to the development of agriculture in Slovenia, as we expect from you, all those, including farmers. You wouldn't have been hit by farmers for free right now. Mr Minister, I am sure that you are more involved in the agricultural story than in Panvita and the establishment of political-land enterprises, because I feel that you already know that you will no longer be in Parliament in the next term and that you need to build a story where you can hire your own staff. [[…]] Mr. Minister, that's not funny, that's the truth, that's what the farmers told me, Slovenian farmers. It's a long way from democratising this country, it's going in a completely different direction, because you know which way. Slovenians aren't stupid enough to fall for it. Farmers know exactly who the defender of this Slovenian state is, and how well they will act in time, believe me. They know what is crucial to Slovenian survival and how they are aware of it. No politicians will lead them past that, believe me. That's why I'm warning you to start thinking with your head, not because the uncles in the background are taking you and the lobbyists are taking you and so on. Stay away from this Panvita of yours, stay away from it, because the entire universe of Slovenia is talking about it. You think all Slovenians and Slovenians are clean so they don't know they can't see anything. I'm giving you a good warning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u151	The Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magi Food has the floor. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u152	Maybe just one piece of information, purely well-intentioned. Last year, perhaps, honourable Members and Members, you know that as far as agricultural production growth in the European Union is concerned, there was a decline, growth was the largest in Slovenia in eight countries. I think that for 13%, as far as quantitative is concerned, and it's worth less because prices have fallen, I think, by about 8%. Even such a figure used, this is a factor income, has been relatively favourable. This year – it is true; throughout the European Union we have protests from farmers, meetings of farmers in all neighbouring countries. The main reason, you know that, in fact, is that there has been an excess within the European Union due to the Russian embargo. Also due to the decline in quotas. It is interesting, however, that in Slovenia, despite all the production of raw milk, which is most important, unlike the European Union, where growth is only 1%, growth is 3%. As the latest information, we have taken a very good look at all these seven requirements, which farmers have presented, because they have made seven demands to me, to the Ministry, to the government and also to the country, because some are what must be done together, and believe me, to the maximum extent possible, in agreement with the farmers, these requirements will be met, and many of these requirements are already in the stage of implementation. But once again, I stress, in this way, that we are dealing with farmers, which is what is most beneficial for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u153	Mr. Franz Jurša has the floor. Prepare Mr Jan Škobrne and Mr Bojan Podkrodšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u154	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I understand, even if I were you, I would probably discuss it this way. Probably in the same tone and with the same content, of course someone is a bigger rhetoric and some things can be more plastic, others we may be smaller rhetoric, but this matter is slightly different and worse presented; or not. Rational, transparent, responsible. I think we've all said that this is what we should do when we use taxpayers' funds, and especially the representative, it's a very sensitive topic. Now tell me which government all of the parties we are sitting here – the ones on my right, the ones that are not here by chance – have sat in some government and all the governments, all the ministries, all the organisational units had their own representation. [[…]] Comrade Gorenak, I resent that you did not try to get the most responsible and the first man of the police this opportunity to have a representative to benefit from this at a given time of need. When this is needed, it also benefits. You know, I understood what you said the last time you asked that question, literally: I threw you a ball, and you grabbed it. Are you a wise politician? That was exactly when we first discussed the matter. I don't blame you, I tell you again, you threw away, we grabbed and responded to some of your claims, but we didn't have enough data to be able to answer this matter more specifically. Of course, now we have some information; I must say right now that I am not any foreign minister's lawyer, but I asked him to get some information because I wanted to be informed. For my personal information, and even today I want to say this in front of all of you, and also in front of the public, how much money was and was spent in 2014 and 2015 to 29. 9th of this year in the Foreign Ministry. In 2014, a total of EUR 550 000 129 was used in all organizational units of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and in all 52 diplomatic missions abroad, and in 2015 it was used, as I have already mentioned, up to 29. 9. 325 thousand 514.23 euros. For all activities financed by the representation. I will also say later how much this means for each diplomatic consular office if we break it down to 52 diplomatic consular offices. Specifically for 2014: total expenditure for 52 diplomatic consular offices amounted to EUR 423 000 011. The use of a regular representative for Directorates at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs involved in the sectors for protocol presentations amounted to 67 000 687.41 euros. The Foreign Minister's office spent just over €800. So Minister Erjavec spent a little over €800. However, when we talk about 2015, 257 000 719.68 euros were spent on diplomatic consular missions, representing 4 000 956 euros on individual diplomatic consular representation, if you take a lump sum. So if we take a flat rate, that means multiple euros to the diplomatic consular office. [[Incomprehensible]] We have all been abroad and we all visited our diplomatic consular missions, I think that the majority of the Members we are sitting here and we know in what way diplomatic consular representations are preparing various events and how individuals from diplomatic consular offices are engaged to make these events as cheap as possible. It would be unfair and unfair for these diplomatic consular offices to be told that they are wasteful. Finally, if this is how we are going to talk about the number of pensions to farmers, then the number of social transfers, the number of pensions, then finally I have to say that the diplomatic consular offices of Slovenia do not need them abroad and we will not have them or will not lead any activities. If there is no activity – then why would representation abroad at all? And today, without money, you can't possibly organize any events. I think, Comrade Gorenak, you agree with me as well. Now, who and how much he spent, that's the other side of the medal. Some may not need so much, but others do have less, and they would need more to be able to carry out their program and activities successfully. I think I was able to say the numbers I got, and I estimate that the funds were used rationally.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u155	Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Mr Jurša one, two, three, four seats from each other see what the tactics of performing in the National Assembly are, and I will not teach you, that is your business. Why are you attacking me? Think about it! Okay. But I have to answer you, of course I'll just answer. You said Minister Erjavec spent 800 – himself, for his own needs. I'm gonna count how much he ate, I haven't, I have a feeling he was at lunch every day at the expense of the state. Yeah, sorry, 6 euros will go down here and you can figure out what it is. I've spent 230 euros in my time; I can tell you again that I've spent less, and that's why I take the moral right to criticize you, you know. Chief of Police. The chief of police has his own part of the team, don't worry, I was talking about the director of the Ljubljana Police Administration, Maribor and so on, I was talking about them. The chief of police, however, has guests, for example, foreign police chiefs, you probably can't imagine him taking the chief of foreign police to his house half a sausage. Would that work? No, no, no. Probably not. And then we'll understand that he has his share of the team. Where did you hear about the ball? We are really in a time of martinis and similar things; I don't know, maybe you thought, maybe I showed up to you, but you know, because I didn't tell you. But it's true that you wrote your defenses. You probably thought I'd show up somewhere else. That's not what I'm talking about. [[…]] Of course, you're not Mr. Erjavac's lawyer, but it's typical that you're subordinate to him, that's even worse. Yeah, of course. He's your political boss. So the situation is even worse. Look, however you turn these numbers — let’s be a little serious, for at times a person really has to start laughing, but let’s be serious. Whatever you're taking these numbers - now the agricultural minister will come through nicely because you have good tactics. But look, if we're talking about hospitality, it's just food and drink, the other doesn't count. We're talking about breakfasts, lunches and dinners, I'm reading this regulation, then reception costs, then we're talking about dinners, receptions, etc., dinners on professional excursions, conferences, etc. – we call it food and drink. Let's put it that way. Is that right? If they spend 547 thousand at your Ministry of Foreign Affairs – sorry, it's too much. That's too much because it's food and drink. You don't belong in there, do you? See what doesn't belong in there; it's too much anyway. I've been abroad a lot. A lot of times. Not as many times as many others, but many times, even at some reception with a foreign ambassador — our ambassadors abroad. Such acceptance can make it very easy, but it can show up, show up, and I don't know what, but it does not make me know what kind of festive lunch, but it can also be a cheaper option. I still think – I will be correct to you – because at the foreign ministry it went from 700 000 and several euros in 2009 to 500 000. It worked. Let's be correct, but 500 grand is too much. Because after all, you know, the President of the country, look how much he spends. [[…]] Its function is protocolable in its entirety. Whatever he opens his mouth, it's protocol, in fact, every act he does is protocol. He doesn't have any material costs, and I don't know what to write there, but he hides things, just like a lot of other ministers can do: he can't do that. But he came for 60% under what his predecessor used. 60% came under that! Yeah. From 350 he came up with a good 100,000 euros in representative funds. It's a very similar situation. Look, now it's a little funny – I'm thanking you. I don't know why I should be bragging about you. But that's the situation. Even with the President of the National Assembly and with the President of the Government, it went down in numbers, I say as a percentage, Mr Jurša, as a percentage it went down much more than in the Foreign Ministry. It went from 700 to 500 and something. For all other consumers, as well as 100% and more. The defense is still questionable. There'll be something else to say, but if you're going to attack me, the battle will be lost. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u157	Does he have a word as a replica? [[...]] Mr. Franz Jursha has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u158	I have no intention of attacking, but at least the neighbor of Gorenak. I'd still answer. Comrade Gorenak, Mr. Erjavec is not my boss. In our party we also have in our very title the Democratic Party of pensioners of Slovenia and the leader of the parliamentary group is not subordinated to the president of the party. Of course, but he has to work with him in a creative way. For some it's funny because you have a different practice, but I'm not going to get into it. I'll tell you one more time. We could talk a lot of time about the size of the team, but we could talk about the government. In which we were both, you were the Minister, I was the Member, then in 2012 I could reach a height if you said that in 2009 there was a dramatic increase in the representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It could then be substantially reduced in 2012. Why didn't we do it?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u159	Mr. Jan Škobrne has the floor. Prepare Mr Bojan Podkrodšek and Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u160	Dear Mr President, the esteemed Vice-President of the Government, the esteemed proposer, colleagues and colleagues, which still insists on us in this Chamber! The nature of parliamentaryism is simply that the opposition has to control the government's work and that it has to ask questions that are sometimes more, secondly less pleasant. In this situation, of course, the question arises whether the budgetary resources have been properly accounted for and, if not, why not, and what is crucial, whether they have been properly spent and efficiently. And if not, why not? Legitimate questions to which it is important to answer both opposition Members and Members of Parliament, the proposer, as well as citizens and citizens. Of course, it is imperative to ask in itself the question that would be raised by those who come from the economy, what was the direct effect of the money spent and what the economy actually has today and what it will have tomorrow. If it is one of the questions whether there can be administrative errors in writing, misrepresentation, non-compliance with the regulation, the answer is clear. It can't come to this. If we find out that this has happened, we need to fix it. There is no need to carry out a specific debate here and there is no need for further debate. And here is not only the expectation of the opposition, but also of us, who are coalition Members and Members, in that it will be more transparent in the future, and that we will not ask questions in the future, whether material costs fall under the representation, or whether we are also hiding the representation on the basis of material costs. This is an administrative issue that is, in fact, relatively easy to solve. What is a matter of substantive nature and is even more important, although I share the view that without adequate accounting and spending, the question is whether the Ministry of Agriculture has been using the money it has spent in line with the purpose of achieving the effect that farmers, food processing industries, citizens and citizens expect from the Minister and the Ministry of Economy. Days ago, weeks ago, we even had a protest against farmers who, at seven points, made their demands and warned that everything happening in the country and the situation in agriculture, not only ours, but also Europeans, especially in relation to large trading chains, is not as ideal as it should be, and that for the work they are investing, they expect a higher yield or more of what they need for their operation and an existing stable minimum, if not more. And then on the question of how the 150-member delegation of the People's Republic of China can come to Slovenia, we have to ask whether this is a good or bad nature of such a visit. If you imagine the number of regions, economic operators, as well as key political representatives operating in this context in the People's Republic of China, Slovenia, as such, must take the honour and great achievement of such a strong delegation coming to Slovenia, because these people have not come to the occasion. They have come to establish economic and political relations that are necessary in order to strengthen mutual trade in goods and services. We should ask ourselves if it is good, especially if the Chinese delegation represents only two political officials and three supporting members. That would be a key question. If such a delegation is supported by the economy, supported by representatives of the regions, supported by industry representatives, the purpose of the visit to the Vice-President of the Government is, of course, clear and must be taken as good. Especially if we can see from the statistics we have, that trade in goods is increasing, that we have growth in this area. Thus, the activities of the Vice-President of the Government in this area produce direct results, both in higher tax revenues and in enhanced economic activities carried out by economic operators and economists in this area. Here we can see that it was an appropriate and purposeful use of these funds. When we had this warning protest days ago, I wonder what it would be like to leave the Berlin Fair if the possibility of Slovenian agriculture and rural development at such events could not be represented if the Ministry of Agriculture did not provide such support. In such a situation, there would be even greater pressure on critics who would, of course, be justified. For the country is here to open the door, to allow the possibility of providing basic infrastructure, to present Slovenia as a destination on the map, that our economists can network and that the economy, with the support of the country, is based on its objective: to create added value, which of course benefits the entire community. With higher added value, we can also create more support infrastructures, we can ensure an adequate level of social state and stability, and we can ensure as high a standard of living as possible for people. If, for example, the misrepresentation of these things left behind the promotion of a country's hard-won rural development programme, in which case we would have to ask ourselves what is wrong with this country, not to inform people how to access such an important fund and how to draw on the resources available to them here. That was done. The direct effects of promotion and action towards empowering the Slovenian countryside to draw on these funds will be known and visible, but they could not be or would be significantly lower if this move did not take place and if such activities were not taken by the Ministry. We are talking a lot about a representative who may even have been wronged in some cases today as something bad in itself. If it is part of representative hospitalitys, dinners, gifts of activity that promotes Slovenia, which has positive externalities, secondary, tertiary ones, such as the decision to promote world bee day and through this Slovenian beekeeping industry, Slovenian honey products, and thus have increased economic activity, increased revenue in the state treasury, then all this is meaningful and welcome and we can ask ourselves more about what would happen if this segment were not fully cut if it were not left to itself. This morning, I spoke of the fact that not only is promotion but the scope of this promotion a key part of the debate on the vision of the development of this country. And all the countries that are on the map of the most successful tourist, industrial, manufacturing forces in the world are investing in the promotion. I can't imagine how to convince people within the European Commission, but within the European Parliament, that the Slovenian territory is something special, if they weren't willing to invest some money in preparing a promotion of this. I do not imagine how to defend that Slovenian dairy products or dairy products or directly raw materials are capable of entering and supplying such an important market as the Chinese without adopting a delegation without preparing bussines to bussines meetings of the economists of both sides. And of course, it is extremely important that all these questions be answered. Not only is the question answered that the following activities on the government's side are also followed, that similar questions relating to whether we are able to properly place representation and material costs in line with the rules of the profession will no longer have to be asked. And that those rules, which are, of course, self-evident, as such, we take. Since much of the debate has been more or less properly linked to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we, of course, have very high expectations for this ministry. Whenever we talk about what the Slovenian economy needs, we talk about internationalisation, we talk about accelerated economic diplomacy, we talk about expecting even more from our diplomatic missions. The experience of all of us who have ever been to any of these representations is such that these representations, as a rule, are, of course, exceptions for which appropriate supervision and appropriate measures are appropriate, extremely rational to try, within a given framework, to do what is possible to continue to represent the interests of the Slovenian economy, of Slovenian taxpayers, of taxpayers and of these countries in a dignified manner, and at the same time not to cause an excessive burden on the state budget. However, in order to increase some funds for promotion, such as those in the budget of the Ministry of the Economy, we take something that we welcome not as a burden, but as an investment in our development, it is clear and understandable to all of us. With these discussions that we have today, at least my conclusion is in two directions. If I may say so, the Vice-President of the Government has made a prudent and efficient use of resources, including a clear impact, a positive impact on the economy, on employment and, last but not least, on the treasury of this budget. In a way, I hope to say that, together with the President of this Assembly, we can also set him and the President of the Republic as an example of people who manage it rationally and in line with the purpose. My role as a coalition Member is to commend him, when necessary, and to play him when he does. Therefore, my appreciation, on the one hand, and at the same time the expectation from the Vice-President of the Government that within the possibilities he has in this function he will also do everything to ensure that administrative errors in such important stories will no longer arise. In view of what has been heard and presented today, I can also believe that this will be the case, but of course I am looking forward to all further discussions, especially on the impact on the money we are spending. Because there is no problem in 100 euros for representation if we get 1,000 euros of positive effect for them. The problem is for lunches, snacks or drinks, the effect of which is not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u161	Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor to prepare Mrs Iva Dimic and Mrs Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u162	Dear President of the National Assembly, thank you for the floor. Honorable Minister, Colleagues and Colleagues! Today we are talking in the National Assembly about two points; the first point was proposed 14 days ago by the coalition MP, this point we are talking about right now by the opposition. Let me say that, in my personal opinion, these two points have only something in common. In the morning, we all saw together when we talked about a very important strategic point, this is the second track, of course, we have identified Members and Members in these benches, and we have also seen this before us, whether this investment is worth EUR 600,000 or EUR 1.5 million. I have already spoken in the debate this morning that it is a very difficult task for Members and Members to keep the profession and the people who are in charge and employees from doing so professionally. We are now talking about a total of 1.5 million. We're ahead of the fact, and that's also Minister Mag. The Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food said and some other discussers that these accounts were not exactly published. I have to be a little surprised how that's even possible. Let me say that 15 years ago, I was president of a small local community, and every account that was not in line with me was immediately rejected by the accountant who ran it in the congregation. And there was another function that I had, and very rarely, it could have happened that some things weren't exactly published in accounting. When I was at the morning session earlier, I also need to conclude now that some services are not doing their job as they should. That's a fact. And I find this as a national constituency throughout the year. It is very rare for ministers to call their services under their control to account. However, since the legislation is such, it is very difficult for someone who does not do his work as he should to to be fired. Certainly not in the economy. Today, we often find in one ministry that it is too planned, too used, that we are very cost-effective in other segments, there were two, the President of the State and the President of the National Assembly. We now also note that there is very little planning at the internal ministry, but also no use. But in some segments, I think, especially in the interior ministry, that things that are financially planned are certainly not well planned. Let me tell you what we're talking about today, about taxpayers' money. Recently, I was at the police station in Shentil, and they showed one of the vehicles they were carrying 24 hours a day. Of course, one can imagine, but I don't want to get this mixed up in this representation today, and one can imagine for sure how many needs there are in different areas in Slovenia, and we probably don't see them. My colleague, or colleague Dr. Gorenak, as an opposition Member, seems to me that this, at least for the last time, has presented itself quite correctly, with the surprise of some that this has also been voted on. I think that he has certainly been corrected today, he has presented these things to Members and Members of Parliament, to the Minister and has also taken account of the explanations made by the Minister of the Jews. However, I may be disturbed by things on the segment by my colleague Jurša, who may have been a little incoherent throughout the session, that this point was voted at all and that this point is here today in the National Assembly. Of course, it is a fact that I must admit that most Members and Members of Parliament have not gone as far as the moment that Comrade Gorenak pointed out this, but have not deepened into this document as much as money is a representative throughout the segments and how much money some are spending. Of course, it is very inappropriate that we, as non-experts, want to get all things from the left and right. I think that the rules and those that work in accounting, economists, that's not any science that belongs to the team. My call goes in two directions to those ministries, especially in the Foreign Minister's mind, to certainly consider whether there is anything else in which segment, as it were, to be said at home. Respected Minister of Agriculture, on the issue of agriculture in Slovenia, problems of farmers, but above all problems in the field of the sale of agricultural crops, our farmers are, of course, warning this every week, and I appeal as a member of state to all those farmers where I come from, that these agricultural policies really get you even more excited. I will not personally tell you if you spend 1,000 euros more on representing, just to reach the goal and to insist on our farmers being able to sell their crops. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u163	Mrs Iva Dimic has the floor to prepare Mrs Anja Bah Žibert and Mr Matjaž Germany.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u164	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In view of the original or from the position of the New Slovenia Group, I can say that the Minister explained why there were wrong amounts on the team. However, it seems to me that there is further evidence of what it means to be employed in public administration and what it means to be employed in the economy. If a craftsman, an entrepreneur, were to be charged with tax evasion if the misrepresentation had occurred, he would have been charged with tax evasion because there was a different rate of tax in the accounts for the representative or for promotion. I hope it's not a state in the country, and it's not the state authority itself who wanted to cheat the state itself on the tax. And lastly, I speak a little faster because I have a little time, I must say this, that recently you, dear colleagues and Slovenian public and media have been releasing administrations due to high wages. But today, here in the National Assembly, I heard in the debate that some ministers have this as a representation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u165	She has a word, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, to prepare themselves, Mr Matjaž German and Mag. Dušan Verbich. Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food Magi. Dean the Jew, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u166	Just a little information. We're only talking about one account all the time, and this is an account Material costs and services, so you won't feel like anything is going on outside the account. We're talking about the Material Costs and Services account, and then we're talking about intra-accounting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u167	Now Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u168	Thank you for your word, chairman. The minister tried somehow to justify all the complications surrounding the team in his responses. Some of you think he did it, some people think it's all very unfortunate. The truth is one thing: in the country we still spend too much on representation. If you look at the individual items of the ministries, you will see that some actually follow the recommendations to reduce these costs, and some somehow what they give away. Of course, the minister tried to respond by making a mistake in writing or in writing and so on. Minister, if that's true, then I believe it's not just your ministry. Then I seriously wonder what's going on with our closing accounts. Because if such errors are found, so on the basis of the question of the Member State, that things look a little bit more and things are noticed that we don't write things properly, the question is, do we really know how much someone spends? Where are all these mistakes? Mr. Scoberne is surprised, but I think you should be surprised. You know, the minister was also trying to answer that there was a misreading error, and you were justifying the costs of advertising. Look at your debate, you were basically talking about half of your debate on promotion. Promotion is not the cost of representation. And that's the problem. It clearly says what the cost of the team is and what it isn't. And it will be clear, when it was somehow explained, that we are not aware of the size of the Chinese delegation, which counted 150 representatives, something like that. The Minister-General, Article 3, of the so-called Regulation on the costs of representation, clearly speaks for how long a representative may be used. Talk about individual, so I'll say, fruit and some minorities, which amount to 4 euros or even 2 euros per person. And only in exceptional cases can more be spent. Previously it was said that when we were talking about a representative, we should look at the effect. You know, it's been a while when countries put everything they have on the table, and even if they empty all the bars, because it doesn't matter what we eat tomorrow, it's important that we see today that there's a big guest at home. You know, this delegation, the economists, nobody appreciates that anymore. This mainly points to the attitude towards his own country and also to the self-confidence of those who offer something and conclude business. If you go abroad, I suppose you travel a lot, you know that, for example, within the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, there are no more. There are no major occasions left, but there are government presidents there, and there are the presidents of the national assemblies of different countries. Modesty is the one that's worth something today. And what you're saying is that it took so much to spend on the Chinese delegation, I think it's irresponsible. And that we've said a lot about ourselves, especially if we've really spent so much. But the sums, €57 000 was spent together by the Minister of Agriculture, while the other function in the country, the President of the National Assembly, spent less than 50% of that value. Now it will be difficult for you to tell me that the President of the National Assembly has no protocol obligations, no representative costs. It's hard. True, today we are talking a lot about the Minister of Agriculture, but also in defence – €133,000. Why, Your Honor? I have a serious interest — why? Given that the costs of representation are clear. 133 thousand euros in half a year. Earlier, I think Mr Jurša said that today's debate seems irrelevant to the situation in the country. Unproductive. Worse. She's so productive, my dear fellow! We are talking about tax money, and it is important that we open the subject today, regardless of which minister it is, but to see if we can reduce these costs in this area as well. That's what this debate is about. Just for that. If we all look at each other's items, we can figure out that there's definitely a lot more to save. And that is why we will also be successful and will also present our ideas and products at different fairs, and we will also be able to make very quality business deals if I say so. And presented themselves with dignity in the international public. The full table can't handle it. Plus, he turns someone away, because he thinks there's nothing to show for you but a full table. You know, there are times when such things had to be demonstrated with various gifts and with various rich tables. We know individual presidents from the past who have handled this very well, even though the nation did not consider them bananas. Earlier, Mr Han had said nicely that he hoped that this debate would not be somehow populist, that it would not be intended for some populist accounting. I agree with you, Mr Han, and I think our debate today is not focused on this. She's not focused on this. But why compare, for example, scholarships, farm pensions? So that someone in the light who can't even imagine these amounts, because he'll never see them in his life, even less earn, knows what that means. For example, the Ministry of Defence spent a thousand 900 scholarships for a team member in six months. I think it's a big deal. The minister spent 814 scholarships. Now, given that the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs comes from your kind, I seriously wonder whether she or he will resign. In view of the fact that he is likely to work every day to ensure that as many young people as possible receive adequate amounts and that parents will be able to train their children. Grants are necessary for some. However, it is urgent that we begin to behave in this country that a representative is an urgent evil, which must be to some extent, but not to show greatness. Because the final result is that we're still kind of small. Dear colleagues, the Social Democrats, I believe you do not want today's debate to be populist, neither do I. But let me remind you of your record, "the ideals and values of the Social Democrats we want to establish as the most important guides to responsible social action." [[…]] And now, as Members, if I exclude the Minister, I ask whether such a waste of tax money is primarily on items that are charged with various taxes, indeed what you wrote down. Where's popularism now? What we're saying today when we're saying that there was too much money for these kinds of needs, or what you wrote on the website? If you feel that this debate is not necessary and a few steps forward need to be taken. However, the government, which is of course not present today, I seriously call for such matters and others to be reviewed, because from now on I do not believe in final accounts. And you'll find it hard to convince me whether any of that information is holding. 'Cause, like I said, the minister said they were reading errors, and that's all. No, that's not all, Your Honor. This is just the beginning of the story. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u169	Replica, Mr. Jan Škoberne.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u170	Thank you very much, Madam President. My colleague, of course I can't blame you or report you if you haven't fully listened to me or heard me. I believe it's been a long day. My main thesis was that the debate was necessary. That there should be a separation between representation, services, material costs and that this is also the basis for this debate. And in this debate, the basic question of what was the representative, what were the material costs and services. As already explained by the Vice-President of the Government, of course some activities are representative and some are not. What is not a representative is, for example, the promotion of the Rural Development Programme. If they didn't do this to me, I think they would have the least resistance if people didn't know that there was a fund in which there were hundreds of millions of dollars and there was a chance for rural development to draw from it. Furthermore, I think it would be totally irrational not to invite the Chinese delegation to pay dinners for EUR 2 000 100, if we find that exports from one year from a million 700 can increase to more than 4 million. That would be irresponsible. It is also irresponsible, of course, that we do not listen or hear ourselves on purpose. And what has been said, once again, on my part, and you can read it back on the tape, is that we need this kind of debate to have a clear distinction as to what representation is, what material costs are and what services are. However, it is also clear in today's debate that the ministry, which you are reading has spent €57 000 on representation, has not spent this on representation, but that it is a total mass of representation, material costs and services. And if anyone can explain why we should not support the Slovenian countryside when performing on the German market and why we should not support it when performing on the Chinese market, then it is probably a champion in logic and rhetoric, not a champion in what the Slovenian economy needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u171	Mr Matjaž German has the floor [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Gradually, Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u172	President, my colleague Scoberna insulted me. I listened to him very carefully. He said I didn't listen to him. And because I listened to him very carefully, I was just talking to him. But look, that's what the government wrote. This is the government's latest response – €57 000 was a representative. If you say it went 2,000 euros for the Chinese, then something small for the representative at the fair – where is the money? Then something's really wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u173	Mr Matjaž German has the word to prepare himself for the Mag. Dušan Verbič and Mrs. Susana Beautiful Šimenka.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u174	Thank you very much, President. I believe that today, although we have been here for the seventh, eighth hour, there have been relatively good and constructive discussions on both subjects. The first, which I think is extremely important, which was proposed by Mr Janko Weber when we discussed the development of the second track, and also this. In particular, because, as we have all observed, certain areas need to be regulated in some way, which have so far been relatively unclear. I think that, in the majority, and even after the debates and presences, we have somehow been satisfied with the answers of the Vice-President of the Government of the Jews, and in some ways he has clarified a vague picture. I hope that we will be able to see a similar picture with other ministers, so I must say that I am also relatively agreeing with the audience across the hall, but only to clarify a few things. But I have to say, if I come from my experience, the feeling is that in our government, no matter what it was, whether it was Pahorjeva, Janševa, Bratuškov or Cerarjev, in some way, some sense prevails in the last five, six years, concerning the reasonable use of budgetary resources. Not a single government, and not even Yanshev, I don't think she allowed herself to spend tax money headlessly. However, it seems important to me that some anomalies have already been observed, that the area is regulated to make it more transparent, so that we can also better interpret the functioning of individual ministries. Just like the Vice President of the Magnificent Government. A Jew explained the matter, we can see that for some euro invested we get more back. I say, it is a matter of interpretation as we see it, it is also a matter of little political opportunism, but I think the debate is pointing in the right direction. I would also like to mention, in a way, that in the past, when we felt worse than today, the country itself could not afford even more intensive visits by a delegation like China. But not to get involved, but this story has spread this way, that we are now returning a visit to China, which is, I'm going to say, a positive story. I hope we can talk about her in a positive light. Let me get this straight. I think that the debate is productive and constructive, with the hope and with the desire that we will arrange for this to be discussed in the future, but with a different tone, in terms of resolved anomalies and lack of transparency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u175	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dušan Verbič, get Mrs. Susana Pretty Šimenka ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u176	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Members, Members of Parliament, Minister, what a lovely greeting! I must admit that at this time, when there was quite a bit of a lively debate, I have looked at the reality of the national team over the past few years, and I am glad that such items are somehow falling significantly, except the exception is that now in the last two years it has somehow stood at a dead point. But what bothers me is that we have another debate about everything that is related to the word of the representative and something else, which means that we are moving away from the content of the question. And I will point out that it bothers me to talk about everything, not what the question of the Member State was asked. I myself voted in favour of the proposed decision of Mr Gorenak. I have done this mainly because of the following fact, for the first time, whether the executive branch of the government, in this case the department, has been adapted to the financial state of the country in which it is located. In other words, whether such costs for a representative are a reflection of non-spentness and mean as much as a reasonable spending of tax money. And secondly, whether the minister of the department follows consistently the principle of the legality of the ministry, which is run or entrusted to him. I think, above all, whether the consumption of representative costs is in line with the Government's decision on height as well, and I was actually even more interested in it, and I am also interested in whether the presentation, which includes the recording of such costs, is in line with the legal and sub-legislative acts. I certainly have in mind both the regulation and the regulation which is in charge of adopting the Ministry of Finance. With regard to the answers to the question put by the Member States, I believe that it has been clarified by the Minister, and I am sure that the assessment will also be made by taxpayers. However, I have to touch on the length of the envisaged debate on this point, because I am aware that the National Assembly is an institution which, apart from its legislative function, also has a political dimension, which is absolutely right. However, I wonder why this item has five hours and 25 minutes of scheduled agendas, and when the answers to the questions of the Members can also be obtained, if I say in an indiscreet manner, in a good 25-minute period. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I ask whether we really have more important work to do than the legislative branch of power. It's over. If there are derogations in terms of spending and publishing a representative or other budget items in a more or wider public administration, then it is high time for the competent authorities to act and act. I have in mind, above all, the competent inspection bodies within the ministries. Ladies and gentlemen, why do we even have an internal audit service in the public administration? Do I modestly expect them to carry out their mission? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u178	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would suggest that you warn Mr Verbic that he voted in favour of the debate on the Minister's response to this debate and that what he is now asking himself should be asked earlier. However, if he has any problem with procedural matters in the National Assembly, he should continue to address his leader of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the floor. A replica? It's procedural. There's no replica here. He has a word, Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u180	Thank you very much. I hope Mr. Jurša doesn't meet me in the hallway. I'm not here yet, but I hope he doesn't say he met me and that I told him something. Mr Verbič, yes, because you voted in favour, but then you should know, Members' groups have, I am very grateful, and I also thanked all the Members who voted for this in writing by e-mail. That's not classified information, I hope not. Then it is probably a matter of fact for the Group of Members, because you know that the Group of Members is deciding how long it will take for a matter to happen. There's one part, and then the other part I agree with you, and here you're probably right. Look, we have no idea how many inspections, each ministry has a specific auditor who is directly linked to the minister, must not be anywhere else, to what subordinate, which secretary-general and so on. He must be directly attached to the Minister, which means he should be completely independent and so on and so on. But look, all these people didn't see it. What's even worse is that within two months, the same government with the same president and the same ministers sends information that is different for 25,000 euros. They sent one data to July, and they sent another data on Friday. And here at 700,000 euros, things vary by 25,000 euros. For example, with Mr Židan, there is a difference of 30,000 euros to the minus. Look, this is insane, this is not normal. As I said at the outset, I am then afraid to confirm a final account of 8 billion, and the government will be mistaken for 700 million or 500 million. Because then you can. In this part I quite agree with you, and I think you are right, but perhaps a little attention given that there is no Mr. Jurša I will be squandering, and there are other consumers that need to be looked at. Look, the Office of the Slovenians in place and around the world, and again, it's Desus, but I have no intention, but that's it. See 12,000 euros planned, 9,000 spent in six months. All right, if it's by the end of the year by 12, there's no readings, but there's a big surplus in the middle of the year. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia service for development and European cohesion policy, a thousand 700 euros planned, spent nearly 8 000 euros in half a year. If I take this comparison now, then if the first numbers were to hold on to the Minister of the Jews, we should knock on the lady's sleeve first and ask her what she's doing. And if you take this as some kind of government service, I don't know exactly how many people he has, but I suppose it's not too much -- and why does he need 8 thousand euros in six months? And even the interior ministry has 3,000 half a year. It doesn't work together. One more thing is interesting, the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, is that there were few ministers here, that's all true, but look, 12 thousand planned on integral funds spent 20 thousand in half a year. I'd count another minister here, but there are no ministers here. Then at this service of the government, which I mentioned earlier, I was talking about integral resources. Now, if you take other things along, say EU funds – how can they have the planned 85,000 EU funds? I have no idea. How can EU funds be earmarked for representation? I don't understand any more. Does Europe know that? I don't know, I'll say. Once again, what I wanted to say earlier was part of what I was able to say. I agree with you all. There's no particular point in defending those ministers. It would be wise if, at the end of this debate, when there will be no vote, as the Rules of Procedure are such that the Government, Mr Verbic, may indeed be involved here in this debate, please note that it would be wise for the Government to draw up a completely new regulation in order to make this work within some normal framework. I'm sure some deserve more, and we should get more, a case of internal affairs. One bad, one bad, one bad, one bad, one bad, one bad, one bad, one In general, we need to say that the funds have gone from 2009 to today, especially in the time of the government of Janez Janša. We also need to say this to the public. This is approximately objective data if the government has communicated the correct data. Because in government, you never know what's true and what's not true.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u181	Thank you very much. The replica has a mag. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u182	Thank you for your word. Vice President, I must respond to the words of the distinguished Mr Tank because he obviously didn't listen to me or he didn't understand me. The fact is, I have made three very clear.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u183	Mr Verbič, there is no need to speak on a procedural proposal, but you can talk about Dr. Vinko Gorenak's debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u184	I was going to say that Mr. Tanko was commenting on time itself. And the fact is that their parliamentary group has foreseen for an unreasonable long time that the debate will spread across the breadth and is not the essence of the question of the mission itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u186	Thank you so much for saying that. I expected you to react because our Group of Members has announced time precisely within the framework of the rules permitted by the Rules of Procedure on individual agenda items. If the Rules of Procedure did not give me time, the President of the National Assembly should intervene. I very much ask you, Madam Vice-President, to remind Mr Verbic that, in the case of procedural matters, he first turns to his Group of Members, to his leader to clear up these dilemmas there. We did the right thing, just as it was written in the blue book. The new Members have gray, but they write the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u187	Thank you very much for your proposal. Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenka has the floor to prepare for Mr Simon Zajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u188	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished Minister, welcome! First, something about the debate that has just taken place. The 12 SMC members were confirmed and discussed. It is not our fault that you took advantage of only 20 minutes, but I am glad that at least one of those who wanted to discuss this debate today in this National Assembly also had a debate. Now I'm going on to the debate. Businesses or independent entrepreneurs often meet with various tax inspectors when they are very fond of reviewing their tax accounts themselves, which is normal. And then what are the inspectors looking for? Irregularity in the issuance of travel orders, in the case of ratings, in the case of costs relating to the life of business owners, in the case of cancellations, in the case of promotion costs and very often also in the costs of representation. Where we are today. In each of the minimum irregularities identified, entrepreneurs or private individuals must therefore exclude the costs of the representative from the tax accounts and must also be liable for their error. Clearly, it is quite different when taxpayers’ money is spent. If we just look at the first half of the year, what we got, and if we believe this data, then we spent about 750 000 euros on the team. And I'm going to apply what that actually means, because these are big numbers and people sometimes have a very hard time imagining them. That's a thousand 360 minimum wages if we look at net amounts and 3,000 700 farm pensions for a better show. It's big numbers here. Let me remind you that in 2009 the government adopted a regulation on the costs of representation. This Regulation regulates the use of funds for representation, restrictions on the costs of representation and keeping records of the costs of representation with budgetary users. In order not to lead to a variety of irregularities for all to apply this Regulation in a uniform manner, they then issued an explanation further in July 2009 for the interpretation of this adopted Regulation. Dear Minister of Agriculture, at this time you were part of this government team, or you joined it a little later in 2010, but given that the government was then led by your former party president, I believe that in 2009 you were very actively monitoring the work of this government and that you knew this regulation and also these additional explanations to the regulation itself. Many authorities point out that there has been a misrepresentation of expenditure, including the Ministry of Agriculture, that other expenditure has been accounted for among the expenses of the team and that these translations are now being made. It's not really that big of a deal, you're making a little mistake, and then you're going through it – in the public sector. It is very different if such a mistake occurs in the private sector. In Germany, the inspectors are very kind and say, 'cause it's okay, you've made a little mistake, so let me get this straight. But that's where it's one other money than in this case. These errors occurred in 2015, i.e. six years after what actually applies to this Regulation. Six years is a period for me to believe, and the employees of the ministries should also somehow get used to, in what way and what the costs of the team mean. But there have been such mistakes. If this happens in a private company, we can imagine and know what the consequences are. I want to know what's gonna happen in this case. Among the representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, the Green Week, the arrangement of space, the visit of the Chinese delegation, then some information material for the rural development programme and so on. Personally, I regret that there are no special expenses here intended for the Haloz area, for which we all strive to obtain them, but, of course, this cannot go between the costs of the representative. However, it is right that I remind you in this place little of this area that in these last days there will not be only illegal crossings of migrants across the green border, which is happening daily, but the media report very little, at least not from that end. Of course, I am really wondering how wrong writing could happen, and I would really ask for further explanation, but if this was actually a mistake, what sanctions would be. Will someone be responsible for this, what will happen next? Will you simply cross over these costs or will this have any major consequences for those responsible in this area? It is more than obvious that there was only a question sent on the spot. In fact, this has revealed that wrong books have also occurred. I really ask for an answer as to how this error could have been made, how you would have acted, and who would be responsible for it. This would certainly happen in the private sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u189	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dejan Židan, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u190	Thank you. Allow the honourable Member to read to you what our accountant wrote, too, but it is quite technical. But you won't mind. There is no account of promotion in the single economic classification plan. It's the country's single master plan. Promotional activities also include representation expenditure, which has led to some transparency showing something on the team, while the second choice is under 402099, that is, Other General Material Services. All together, it's an account of Material and Services. Did these references actually result in misrepresentation? I have to tell you, although I have already told you this, as soon as I have known the information that Mr Gorenak warned about, clearly, the first step is that every look, I think you said, in your vicinity, some other expression you used. Clearly, the first meeting was with the accounting of the house and then the three other bodies shown. When they explained what they explained, I even sent the group to the competent Directorate of Finance to conduct a serious interview there on individual accounts. Not that we want to do anything for ourselves, but to just look at what it's like to actually be doing individual items. What I want to say is, say, we talked about China, we talked about Green Week, we talked about the Rural Development Programme. These are real costs, no one denies these costs. I can also explain why they were created and what effect they have. And these costs, even if you are not booked by the Representative's sub-account, are entered within the entire account Material and Services. It is not a matter of denying the costs, simply asking how they were written and whether they were properly published or why they were mispublished. I personally estimate that the only damage caused by this bookkeeping is, of course, damage to me. Or not. This allowed me to be here with you for five and a half hours. Other damage I can't see right now. Because these aren't costs we're denying, these are real costs. €56 000 is the cost of the ministry when financing Die Grüne Woche or Green Week. The costs of the Chinese delegation were, as they were, the costs of the Rural Development Programme or promotion, information and printing of all the materials that must be, are real and are here. And we don't deny these costs. The question is only in the essence of their writing. But I don't see any damage, and that's what I have to say, except for myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Mr Simon Zajc has the word to prepare himself for the Mag. Andrej Shircelj, followed by Mr. Uroš Prikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u192	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, Members and Members of Parliament and all those who accompany this meeting are welcomed! I also welcome, in fact, that we have this debate today, although I would like it personally, quite frankly, that it might be half shorter, because most of the things we have just said to each other, one side or the other. Now we're all gonna squeeze a little bit more and turn things around, but good. The good thing about this point may be in what the minister has now said in the end that it will finally figure out why these wrong books have occurred, because this is obviously the main problem. Costs were essentially incurred, they were justifiably used, and if there are any other results, I believe they will, then, as far as this is concerned, be okay. It is not okay, though, that we do not know what to write or that we cannot put them under promotion and so on, which is possible that one thing in the future will need to be deepened very soon so that such unpleasantness and irregularities will no longer occur. To know exactly where to write something, especially because it is a cost that will benefit citizens in the long run. I personally think that the costs of national representation are no longer too high since 2009 when this regulation was adopted, they have fallen drastically, but now they are somewhere in a million and a half. But they're important. It is true that arrangements are made officially for one table, but it is already clear from the history of mankind how we have developed, that the connections, which are in the process of making some arrangements, are the easiest and best to deal with food and drink, if I can make it very simple. This team may be modest, but it's good that it is. Although you use only a function, you are still a person who needs to get in touch with another person who is in another function, and in this way things may be easier, faster, and in the interest of everyone. As far as this is concerned, I welcome the fact that costs fall mainly in terms of abilities or the situation in the country as it is. In this sense, I will also conclude, because I would not like to spin again what everyone else has already said. I hope that the conclusion of this meeting will indeed be that there will be no future problems such as to prevent them from knowing in accounting which eligible cost to put under which account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u193	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Šircelj, prepare Mr Uroš Prikl, Mr Mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u194	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The more we talk about the team, the more complicated things get. Here I am primarily referring to this last reply given by the Minister concerning accounting. It is simply here that, on the one hand, the government itself says that there has actually been a misrepresentation of expenditure. The Commission shall examine the final accounts of the budget each year for the supervision of public finances. This is how it dealt with the final budget account for 2013. And in this final budget account, the Court of Auditors has found a number of errors. Not only in bookkeeping, but also in content. Any material error is then also revealed when you are writing. You know, only bookkeeping is never the source of a mistake, unless it's really a matter of having a person write under column 5 instead of under column 3. But it's just an administrative mistake. Everything else that concerns representation here is actually a substantive reason, and this is just a consequence. The first substantive reason is already in the Single Concise Plan. Maybe this is where the wrong minister sits. I think it's wrong for the Minister of Finance to be sitting here because the Minister of Finance is setting up a single account plan. And if it's not in the single account of promotion costs and now it's all mixed up, then it's a complete mess. From what has now been said, on the one hand, we have a regulation on the costs of the team, which accurately describes what a representative is, but does not say that it is a promotion. On the other hand, we have a one-stop-shop plan where we don't have any promotion. And now the promotion isn't a representative, if we have written here what a representative is. Once again, it's not just the wrong book. This is a misdefinition of content. And there aren't many of these things in the budget. And the Court of Auditors actually finds them in the final account every year, says them, and then nothing happens. I must say that the only thing that has happened now was that the law has changed, which sets out the costs associated with the SID Bank and we have at a previous meeting or even at this meeting changed the law that talks about these costs of the SID Bank. Otherwise, there are many mistakes in these reports by the Court of Auditors. But nothing happens here. And that's the main problem. On 3 November, the Commission will consider the final budget account for 2014 for the supervision of public finances. And what's she gonna find? Look, it's already clear that there are the same mistakes inside. And this one and the same mistake, here I tell you, Minister of the Jews, here you have your representation in writing, in this regulation you have a substantive statement of this regulation, what is a representative, here it refers mainly to frequents, solemn dinners at receptions and casual gifts. There's no promotion in here. Promotion is something else. And even in accounting standards, in any standard, promotion is something else entirely. But the single billing plan doesn't have a promotion receipt. I don't know why not. Tell the Minister of Finance to change the one-stop-shop plan. It's not some science. Don't let them tell you in some department that it takes three months to do that. It takes three hours to do that. That's the main problem with all this. I don't mean to talk here about the height of the team, whether it's too much or too little and so on. I don't think I'm going to talk about it. But I'm talking about the country's finances being unregulated in this regard. And second of all, what I'm trying to point out is that poor planning, bad planning for the whole government. Here my colleagues have actually said how much more than the cost of the representative of the planned expenditure. And then it's done in the budget opposite by giving money from one item to another. In all budgets this is happening, the question is how many. Finally, we find that, in fact, in one year, up to half of that initial budget can be changed by pouring money from one budget item to another. In fact, in the National Assembly, we get a result that is half as different as the one that was planned. You can ask the Minister how many transfers were made from one item to another within one ministry and how many between ministries and between budget users. We have different methods of how this is done, including who is responsible, easier within the Ministry itself than between ministries and so on. Here are the main problems that I actually see in this subject that we are talking about today. And this planning, which I think should actually be more exact, should actually know how much money will be spent on the representative according to the Ministry's plan, according to the government's plan. Minister, I understand clearly that the Chinese delegation should be visited. But I think such a Chinese delegation has been announced for at least six months in advance, three months in advance. Look, this is very unusual if it's three weeks. Very, very unusual. Usually such visits are announced a few months in advance, so that from this point of view I would suggest that all the costs are planned, not just those costs, in a way that actually looks at the content, but not to take up the previous year, but perhaps some general increase of 5, 10, 15 %, if there is more revenue in the national budget, and then this is actually rounded up. These are the substantive things that I think are important. In fact, I would not like to go ahead with the 2014 budget, which will be addressed by the National Assembly, and I will propose that the Commission pay particular attention to this once again. Since we discussed the previous budget and the same things last year, I am afraid that I will be now. And then there's the reading and the billing plans, and so on. And one more thing, accountants don't run this government. It can't be if there's something in the context of not having services like that or doing things like that. The content sets the scoreboard, not the other way around. So from this point of view, I call on this government, ministers to make order in this area, and that perhaps we will discuss other things another time, although these things are still important, not only because of errors in the planning and accounts of the representative, but also in other matters, including other items that are larger. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u195	Thank you very much. The Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magi Food has the floor. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u196	If you'll excuse me, there's only one information for the Member of Parliament. Indeed, such visits, when asked, are planned for six months and sometimes even a year before they occur. What happened on this visit is that the Chinese delegation came to one European country, I think to Finland, and then they agreed a few weeks before the visit that it would also come to Slovenia along with the Vice-President of the Government. That's why I was squawking, so I said I thought it was three or four weeks alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Mr Uroš Prikl has the floor to prepare Mr Jože Tanko, followed by Mrs Urška Ban.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u198	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues, distinguished colleagues, nice greeting! Also a nice greeting to the Minister of Agriculture, who I believe feels like he's on a sad bench. It is very unusual that there are fewer Members in the Chamber than they were then voted in favour of this general debate on the issue of representation at the Ministry of Agriculture, which is very significant. I, of course, have to say in the introduction that we in Desus have always been, we have, and we will, carefully plan and also carefully spend all the budget resources, as well as the budget resources for the representative. Let's be clear, I'm splitting up, and I don't have any problems with that, between the cost of representation and the cost of promotion. But let me tell you what I'm thinking. By definition, the school definition is half of the funds to promote discards, and no one has yet identified which half of them are, so the funds for promotion are always and everywhere, planned in each working group. It's very similar, if not identical, to a representative. It is necessary, it needs to be planned and, as I said in the introduction, it should be used carefully. I understand the opposition, I also understand all those who have debated that the costs of representation are too high at this point. If there were 500 euros, someone would say that they are too high, that they might be 400 euros. But of course that's a theory. Why I was so incoherent and probably also made some grimas, which some Members found and tweeted. Of course, I was indignant because I had heard all these comparisons four times, and this mathematics, how much this representation would mean cash social assistance and children's allowances and lunches in this national council of minimum wages and so on. Of course I'm unproven because it's, my dears, demagogy. Believe it or not, that's the demagogy we listened to. It's not that easy to say, yeah, but now we're going to turn this show into some kind of social transfer. In fact, I have always been sensitive and will always be sensitive to pensioners, especially those with 500 or less euros a month, and Desus has always been sensitive to the socially disadvantaged population of this country. But there is no way to try to interpret that for a few thousand euros, and if you want a few tens of thousands of euros, this situation will improve. We try to solve these situations daily, to find solutions daily, how to provide additional means of payment to those who have spent 40 years in retirement and health care and any other cash and budget through taxes, but not in this way. And that's a worrying thing when people hear it three times, four times, five times, and I'm not saying it's a lie. I'm not saying it's a lie, but it's sort of a demagogic interpretation of what a spar action in the field of representation means. Of course, he was mentioned many times by the Minister of the Jews, and he explained some things to you. Of course, I am saddened that due to some of the techniques, accounting errors, or misrepresentation, we need to discuss these matters today. Also mentioned was diplomacy, the foreign ministry. I don't know if I'm properly informed, but around the first nine months, about EUR 325 000 is a nominally huge amount earmarked for the foreign ministry. But these 325 thousand euros are for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the entire network, I think 52, but certainly over 50 for the representations, either consulates or embassies. And if you recalculate it very easily, what this means for a unit per month, it's the cost of a team of 682, allowing the possibility that I miscalculated here, but it's about 680 euros. And if the diplomatic consular network wants to function normally, I fear that these 682 euros are relatively small. I was told diplomats about how these things go around. Since I was uneducated, I asked if they were banquets themselves or not, I'm not going to say luttering, but somehow evening receptions and so on. And they told me, of course, there are receptions where we talk about this and that. Now this embassy is preparing a banquet, and the second embassy is preparing a third party, and then it will turn into Slovenia, and of course it will have to be done if we want to play a role with some position in the world of diplomacy. To remind you, this country's foreign policy strategy has been adopted, where our so-called economic diplomacy, which opens the door to our economy, plays a major role. And that's right. We are promising from every euro spent for this purpose, the multiplier effect, as one of the ministers, can always re-emphasize what will be the income in our budget, the income for our economy. I don't know what else to say here is that it will carry some extra weight, except, of course, that I agree with all those who have spoken. Not that it's not necessary, but that it's not what we're talking about today, which we're talking about today, that it's not productive. Of course that's true. In the final stage, what will be the outcome, as no decision will be taken. Of course, we should also discuss these matters. And it is true that perhaps this only positive valence from this debate is that all those who will be preparing budgets for the coming years are keeping an account of this and that they are properly preparing proposals for a representative and even more carefully and more Spartanly also spend these funds. But it's very interesting at the end of my debate, because I'm really not going to tire you anymore. I was on three committees, where I am a member, where we talked about the budget for the next two years plus, of course, on the working body. Believe it or not, we discussed many things, many issues, but not on the Committee on the Economy, not on the Committee on Finance and not on the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs, the issue of disabled persons was not representative. So you would understand that this representative is not such a key issue. And that's all there is to it. Once again, all budgetary resources — including for representation — must be carefully planned and carefully spent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u200	Thank you. I just don't have things written in advance, and I never write shows in advance. Just some points of resistance, so I can adjust them to my interview. I believe the Minister of the Jews had a bad night's sleep because he was a little afraid of what would happen. Now, as we can see, he'll get out of this perfectly fine, even taking his skin away. One of the other ministers is less. But it's a matter of your tactics now, not mine, I have to tell you. Look, Mr. Jurša has now gone, probably looking for me, but earlier he was talking about 800 euros spent by Mr. Erjavec. Yeah, that's 133 lunches. That's a big one, too. Okay. But we're moving on. Mr. Prikl, you're talking about demagogism now. I have a different view of demagogism. The demagogue is that you're pushing against my debate, which is what you've pressed. This also applies to all your Members. At the same time, you know your minister spent half a million or he'll spend it. Yeah, that's the number, because I'll tell you exactly if you want. 517.451 – this is the correct number by the end of this year. The demagogue is that you say, "I'm against the debate, I won't let this be discussed in the National Assembly." At the same time, you know you have a minister who's spent a lot of money. And if we put the other minister with us, the Slovenians around the world and the locals, then the picture on the parliamentary group is a bit of a black one. For you, it's demagogy. But now I'm going to be the way I need to be. You can call it demagogy, but half a million and something over is not demagogy. Half a million and something over is a lot of money, a lot of money. This is, you know – you're for workers, pensioners, regressions, all that. I'll calculate your regression if you call back. 900 minimum wages are for sacrifice. It's a sacrifice, not what the regulation says. Yeah, sorry, that's it. 2,000 280 farm pensions is it. Well, say it's a demagogy. It's not. That's half a million euros. That's 86 or 32 years. All of you downstairs can eat for free. That's how much he spent. These numbers should be displayed in such a way and nothing else. However, it is a representative who is listed in the regulation, where the cost of eating, drinking, narrating is incurred. So let's get this straight. And that's got to be clear and nothing to say about demagogies. You've now calculated this as a unit, it's a diplomatic consular embassy, you said it's 680 euros a month. Do you have any idea how much this is in the police force? 2.32 euros. The police have about 140 units, say in Ljubljana, in Brežice you now have a whole god, but in normal conditions I don't know exactly what it is. Or, say, Ljubljana Center, about 150 police officers, that's a pretty strong unit. And this unit deserves 2.32 euros for the team. But he doesn't really get anything because they're using the noodles. They've already got a little. Then there's 680 euros on your unit. Let's just share what we have. I think that's the point. This should be our goal to come to a situation when we are justly sharing what we have. While not saying that I am demagogos, it is important to make it very clear to the Slovenian public that all our consumers of state money have come from 3 000 600 per million. In 2009, we spent 3 000 600 and now a million and a half, a million and a half this year, now it's going up again. You have to admit that things are going better, but you can't defend things you can't defend. I don't think some things can be defended. If you think you're successfully defending them before the public, that's your personal evaluation. Mine's not like that. But it's not my intention to go into demagogy. Far from it. My purpose was very clear, and I said in the beginning – our goal is for the government to decide and make these things unified and make order in this area. This is my goal as a proponent. And nothing else is my goal. But if you've decided to hit Gorenak with a tactic, yes, then I'm defending myself. And that's what I'll always be because I know myself and a little bit of police time. A little bit of your rhetoric. So, your business. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u201	Thank you very much. He's got a replica, Mr. Urosh Prikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u202	Mr. Gorenak, I don't think I can mate you in rhetoric. You're a great rhetorical man, of course you have to admit that. But when you repeat something so many times, I'm not saying it's a lie, but when you repeat these minimum wages so many times. I am pleased, inter alia, that in two days' time, we will all agree on the redefinition of minimum wage. Here I am grateful that you, as the opposition, will give your voice for this because it is right because it is fair because it is decent. But once you do it again, I can't help but repeat this demogoic phrase, how many transfers are there, how many wages are there, people are really going to get this idea, but if they don't spend something on a 150-member Chinese delegation at the Ministry of the Economy, they could give the poor people so much and so much more. However, we are all working hard to prepare the budget for those key ministries, where the Ministry of Labour is also, we have tried resources for an active employment policy, funds for compensation for the unemployed, children's allowances, not to list, increase or ensure as much as is estimated that it is necessary to get those on or even below the existential edge. And that's where I think the focus should be focused. And now you're comparing, you've correctly found that by unit the consulate, the embassy has been used so much and so. And then you compare it to one police station. These are incomparable materials, if we know what the task of individual police administration is and what the task of one consulate is. Mr Gorenak, you know this very well, you certainly know the work of the police, but you certainly know what the job is, what the purpose is, what the profession is in the essence of diplomats in our foreign representations. I said earlier that in some way they are opening doors to our economy into the world and bringing business with which, last but not least, this budget, which has the task of redistributing revenue and then, of course, spending on the other hand, will be filled. I don't think it's appropriate that you present this matter all the time, how much you, you and you would get from saving on the team. We are trying, and I am speaking this categorically can, in fact, those people who are below, at the edge of social existence, the social minimum to obtain more resources. For a few tens of thousands of euros, please, and we will not solve this situation and this problem. It's not the right approach. And I stress once again, it's not unnecessary, it's not just this debate, it's obviously not productive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u203	Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Look at why I did this comparison when you said 680. Because you're making bad comparisons and you're giving me a chance to give you better. That's what I think the real game between the coalition and the opposition is if I give better comparisons than you. Yeah, that's how it is. Besides, you know what the problem is? I'd rather say ten times how much Mr. Jew spent lunch on this one, that one, that one, but you're not giving me a chance. But in a wise way, he said that there was only something wrong and that the end was wrong. And I don't want to praise him. I won't praise anyone from the government. I'm in the opposition. That's right. And it doesn't make sense to do that. I'm trying to expose demagogy, and this is your client's demagogy. Look, just for example, one sentence. In autumn 2008: all pensioners will receive the supplement, all pensioners will receive the supplement, was your motto in the 2008 elections, namely, that supplement that was already, I don't know how it was said, let's leave it, then after the elections you forgot about it. The proposaler was SDS and we wanted to give the allowance to the pensioners exactly as your president had announced before the elections. And what happened in 2009? Your predecessors all voted against it. You know, it's demagogy. And it's not just demagogy, it's the weight of the people, it's the weight of the people. Sorry, that's right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Mr Jože Tanko has the floor to prepare Mrs Urška Ban for her, Mr Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u206	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr Gorenak succeeded in proposing a debate in the National Assembly. Here we should actually thank the 12 votes from the largest coalition party and the vote of Violeta Tomić. These were the votes that, in addition to ours, decide whether or not the debate will take place. This is what needs to be said correctly. Why did this happen? It's just another question. I hear here that this debate is irrelevant because there are no conclusions. Those who say this and feel that it is necessary for the National Assembly to take decisions should suggest them. You have every opportunity, like all other Members. Do not accuse anyone who has succeeded with the proposal, but improve it, complement that it will make the thing enjoyable, binding on those we are discussing today, and these are the ministers of the government coalition. Power is a simple thing. Those who talk about how we should discuss and base the matter are prepared in such a way. The government is still the same. For the next meeting of November, you can make a point of the agenda, prepare proposals for conclusions and recommendations, and we will discuss precisely these things, Mr Pikl, which you are talking about, in the way that you will make the basis. No problem. Nothing at all. And you have professional services, you have the services of the National Assembly, which will, if necessary, correct anything about the recommendations, content and so on, and we will talk about it because you obviously have an unknown desire to talk about it in your own way. Do, and this is how we will discuss it. Next thing you know, there seem to have been a number of problems in this debate. One problem is budgeting. If you made a budget cut on the Hill through the ministries, it means you waved at the railroad because you just shared: so much for one resort, so much for another resort, about the same as the previous government. There is nothing essential about taking away the differences that have arisen in European funds and perhaps some small place. And then the minister sat down with his team and cut the cut for his department. Some kind of technical procedure after some pattern that was made. None of you wonder how many deaf items your budget has proposed in the National Assembly. However, the number of items from which funds should not be redistributed are too many items, just so that these reservations can be made for the implementation of the budget and that ministers can do what they do. That's the way it is. Take a look at the budget, look at the explanations, use some healthy farmers' minds or you have to feel it on the bubble, and you will see what is such as that reserved exclusively for reallocation. A key law in this area is the Law on the implementation of the budget. There are legal powers of the Minister as regards transfers, and of the Government as regards transfers. If you are willing to improve your powers, it is right to tighten the conditions for redeployments and reduce percentages, then you will do something in this specific sense if you are willing to do so – you are a coalition. On Brdo you have adopted a budget cut, probably also the Law on the Implementation of the Budget, which went into procedure, and do so. See what is in the explanations for individual items. This is where it starts. We propose amendments to this budget. Do you not find it strange that no amendment to the budget is appropriate and appropriate for a coalition or government to support it? Believe me, we know that there are some completely useless items in the budget with high amounts for the purpose that I said earlier. Mr. Minister of the Jews is Minister, I think it's the third time. Thirdly, he's a minister, and thirdly, he's faced with a budget audit as a minister. But since he was several years old, he met with this several times, it was with the Court of Auditors' audit and also with a balance sheet analysis probably like that of his colleague Gorenak. It's probably no secret. If the minister does his job, he should have regular briefings and regular checks, and he knows exactly where the items go, for what purposes or not, whatever we look at. No problem. And if the Government wanted to settle certain things, then it would have come with a rebalance or a change of budget, as we call it, in order to harmonise the explanations, purposes, objectives and what has subsequently emerged with what the Minister will actually need to implement his part of the state budget. That's probably no problem. No problem at all. Given that there is something in the National Assembly that we ourselves have had this happiness or bad luck, that we had to implement budgets as mayors or in any other role, we know how it works. Sometimes we are better, but in the early years when the Law on the Court of Auditors came, then this needs to be improved and practice upgraded. But we always face the same problem of unintended consumption, consumption and so on. The key act that we will now have once before us is the final budget account. With such large deviations as this budget, the Government should place a trust on it. That's a fact. The Minister, who shall be found to have done so in the audit, should, if he so wishes, make a statement of resignation and then accept it or not by the President of the Government. Look, this isn't how it works. We adopt one fairy tale act called the budget. At the end of the year, when you look at it, you get a win that has absolutely nothing to do with items at the beginning of the financial year. What's the point of this budget? What is the meaning of macroeconomic data for this budget, what is the meaning of the photo-terms for such a budget, which ultimately has a smaller coverage than, I don't know, 50%? It doesn't make any sense. I think that every minister should do the work he does, not only on the substantive side, but also on the budgetary side very precisely and precisely. The fact that someone remembers something and books something, and then when they get it, they say it's a mistake, it can't go like that. It can't hold. If this is how public property is managed, then it is no wonder that Factor Bank and Probank are created when the Government comes along with Banka Slovenije with the idea of being thrown into each of these banks 400 million when it is sufficiently cleaned up and a decision is taken on the programmed liquidation. So we've given 400 or 800 million like this. And here it happens exactly the same, just the nursery is a little bit smaller. Nothing else is going on. Because that's how you feel about all these things. And until there's some serious approach in the coalition, some attitude towards what we're doing and what we're saying, until it's one-on-one, but it's going to depend on the interpretation, free by Mr. Prickle, then we don't need any things in the National Assembly. This budget, if I may be frank with you, Mr Pikl, is meaningless, which you bring to the National Assembly. Because 40% of the funding will be redistributed for things that will fall back. Look at history. And that the matter is even worse, there is almost no debate in the closing account. And an additional problem, it's marked by some degree of confidentiality. So there's probably going to be a closed session when we discuss this. Just to hide the matter, hide the bad work. We're in this situation now. And then we face some of the obvious about what someone is talking about and how someone is discussing what they would do and what no one would do and so on. It is hard for me to listen to some of the debates when Members discussing 8, 9 billion of the budget do not even separate whether they are talking about material costs or about the representative. There'll be investments and so on. They don't even separate, and they're gonna have a debate in 10 minutes. Look at one of them, and you'll see how he's arguing. I think that this comparison made by Comrade Gorenak stands and is in place is effective because this is the most plastic way you can see all these differences between the individual departments and you can see what it means in the end. The effects are difficult to measure in the manner presented by Minister Židan. Indeed, agricultural production may have increased by 8 %. Prices fell by 15 at the time. This means that there are some problems that are due to the functioning of the market or whatever, we also understand this because things are fluctuating. But the problem is that the consumption of the team is difficult to argue with agricultural production and growth. This probably does not have a large direct link, because these costs of representation we talked about are related to other activities, including some schemes and similar things, but the schemes are difficult to operate in our environments, especially because they are poorly distributed. However, keep what Shircelj has also said, our Member, that matters need to be settled, adjusted, but in addition to the things related to the implementation of the budget, it is necessary to commit responsibility to those who have been given political responsibility, political responsibility and professional responsibility to those who have been given professional responsibility. After all, the Court of Auditors is always available for information, for consultation and so on, because they also teach these things. And it's much better than facing data that's misrepresented or recorded and so on and so forth, to have these things checked beforehand. But it is therefore necessary to monitor what is going on with the budget, whether it is agriculture, foreign affairs or any other sector that has a budget line and has a cut there. I am waiting for the November session to propose a debate on these issues with recommendations that will be linked to what you have read to us, because there is no recommendation at this point in the so-called point and the recommendations voted. But I expect you to do this because you obviously have a great deal to do with it. I am also counting on you not only to discredit the proposer of the point that he succeeded in the vote, but also to do something proactive yourself, so that we will not only wait and wait for the next proposal, and once the next proposal comes, there will again be some kind of surface of accusations, clues and so on. You have every opportunity, and I suggest you take advantage of that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Mrs Urska Ban has the floor to prepare Mr Matjaž Han, followed by Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u208	Thank you very much, Chairman for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today's debate is slowly coming to an end, and I will conclude with some of my own conclusions when I have listened to this debate on the costs of the representative. As has been found and repeatedly said, the cost of representation for all public administrations has decreased considerably over the last eight years and has not exceeded the spending of €1.5 million since 2012. This represents 0.02% of the budget in 2015. And I look at the representation myself from a very positive angle. For this reason, there is only one key question here and on the ground, and in particular, how much of this €1.5 million has contributed or contributed to an increase in, for example, foreign investment in our country, to the positive effects on trade, to economic growth and so on. These are the key questions for me. The costs mentioned under the regulation for registering these items are intended primarily for the promotion, as the Minister has already said, of Slovenia both at home and abroad. For me, these answers would be concrete as to what this representative has contributed to this, the most on-the-spot, so that we could assess or, as Mr Gorenak said, it is a sacrifice for no reason or they have any objectives or they want to contribute to certain purposes set by the ministries. My second conclusion here, I am pleased, on the one hand, that we have also reached this conclusion at the meeting of the National Assembly, and this is the one also highlighted by my colleague Shircelj. On the Commission for Public Finance Supervision, we monitor the implementation of the budget, we monitor the final budget account, including the audit report by the Court of Auditors, where they identify one and the same error in the bookkeeping of individual business events each year. So, I can rightly say, indeed, some of the budget lines can be distorted and do not show any actual situation. The decisions we take on board and the recommendations made by the Court of Auditors to the Government and within the Government of the Ministry of Finance have to date not been taken into account. I therefore hope and wish that, after this debate, all the recommendations made by the Court of Auditors and the Commission for the supervision of public finances at the time of the adoption of the final budget account for the past year would then be taken into account, and that the debate we are accompanying today would not be necessary. And maybe this one-stop-shop plan. Yes, it has to be respected, it has to be taken into account, it is an integral part of the Single Account Plan Regulation for all budgetary users. I believe that in some account, perhaps not just in the word of promotion, there may be marketing, pyar activities, and a possible publication of such activities outside the representation within this single account plan. I do not have it in front of me to look at which item this belongs, but I am convinced that somewhere outside of the team the background plan also allows for the publication of such pear activities, promotions, marketing and so on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Han has the floor to prepare Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u210	Thank you very much. First of all, let me say that I am glad that my fear was too great for this session to be resolved in populism and the collection of cheap political points. On the contrary. And I think it's good that we've come up with this meeting, that we've somehow explained some things. First, let me say that Mr Vinko Gorenak's question was on the ground and after what he had received from the Government, and when he looked at the indices, how some of the departments did not spend money, it was clear that we should go into the question of the mission. I'd do the same as the opposition. Then, in some ways, Minister of the Jews explained why these indices were so prominent that there was a miscontainment. But here it is, in a way, I am stopping, and yet I say that someone has to answer for it: whether it will be the Ministry of Finance or whether it will be the accounting of the Minister. But if not, politics in the sense that we do not have things transparently arranged. Therefore, at least what Mr Šircelj said has to be debated at the Commission on Public Finance Supervision in some way, in my view, so that the framework plans begin to change according to the content of the programme. Because it is clear, then, that those officials are simply writing some of the things in the accounts for which they are written. Mr Dejan Židan made it clear that these funds were spent, he said what they had been used for and did not escape from this responsibility, but they were miscontaminated. That's why I think it's good that this meeting happened, even though I say frankly, I, as a party man, voted against because I knew, given the experience that this means, when politicians start talking about the representative and the public, of course, is allergic to us Members, to ministers, to the government, to sing too much anyway, to waste, to have too much pay and there is no political defense here. But there's one thing I do know that we didn't all eat one of the steaks, we didn't drink at the expense of this National Assembly, we didn't drink any juice children or children's wine. This is all we have Members and Members of Parliament, I will say, from this country and from this team, for which the President of the National Assembly is so successful. Here, Vinko, just one thing, you are very much praising him, but if the Colleges did not agree with the budget, this budget could probably be higher. But Members of the Left and Right are not eating or drinking at the expense of the State. However, another observation is important. Look, in all this system that's in this country that has to run, there are some unpredictable situations. This country only spends a million 600,000 money on the national team. It is true, however, that if you spend one euro on non-relationship, it must be recalled, but I think that less than this means, but it is already difficult to use the state in some way. Because then we ask ourselves, so we see the President of the State, driving with eight years old cars, with old tires, because he doesn't have a country for tires, but if he accidentally buys a new car or a president of the country, the Prime Minister, the President of Parliament, of course, will be hilarious in this country, how does the President of the State or the Prime Minister think of a new car, while we know that he represents this country's institution, and sometimes we have to be careful. I know that these discussions are not good for me and that the people watching will say that we drink too much, we sing too much, we are too expensive. But I don't think so. At least what it is, we will also propose in our party that this debate should correct these underlying plans, so that it is clear how to book. And this is an absolute task of the Ministry of Finance. But I'm gonna say one more thing, and maybe even my minister will blame me now. I was watching TV the last time, and on POP TV was a contribution to Perpetuum Jazzil. The Perpetuum of Jezzile sang to these Chinese, as I saw then. And they were very excited. If nothing else, if we all measure what is good now, this same Perpetuum Jazzil, because they sing so beautifully and because Perpetuum Jazzile has a million views on YouTube, now goes to the invitation of China to tour China. If nothing else, I have to tell you, given that I love music and that I think it is a top ensemble, it is also one plus for the promotion of this Slovenia, perhaps even more than any policy where it goes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u212	Thank you very much. I'm happy for everyone, I'll say, patient and good debates. We've just heard one of these. There's nothing to add here. But the other is assault. I'm just adjusting. Since we're talking about the budget in general, I just have a few minutes of time and I'm going to take advantage of it, I'm going to say this: we're doing a lot of stupid things. I don't understand, maybe someone could explain this to me, but I don't know why the state budget for each ministry has to have four items. It's just for the representative. See, integral funds, earmarked funds, eu-funds, which I do not understand at all, and then the integral means of Slovenian participation. All of this is for the team. Why? Why don't we say "representative," bye-bye, and there'll be one item. Because we have very clearly in the regulation what this is. I've never used the word "sacrifice" in the negative sense of the word before. In Article 2, point one, of the Regulation on the costs of representation, six items are listed, in fact, food and drink. That's all. That's why I used that term. And if the six points that are in here were correctly written all over the country, then that million is half as big. Mrs. Banova, I wasn't talking about the promotions you were talking about. Far from it, for a basic reason, because it doesn't belong to a representative, it just goes somewhere else. Where, I don't know, they know the accountants. They also know those who misrepresented them, as the minister now finds out. It's perfectly clear to me, you understand that you can't, I don't know, accept a foreign minister, say, listen, and into a half-cranian fire, and you take your wallet out and you pay on the counter. Yeah, how? No, it's not. That's clear as day. Some kind of delegation with a hundred people. I can also believe in some positive effects, most likely, such and different. They're often gone, but sometimes they are. But that's not a representative. That's something else. That goes somewhere else. In this country, they're just going to have to teach these accountants how to book according to these items, and that's it. However, while I am on the budget, the following must be said. A colleague said to me a while ago, "You know, now in September and October I really don't have time to come visit, but now I have a government office." She's selling computer equipment. I said, "Yeah, but I don't understand what you're saying to me." And she said, "You know, now that the budgets are closing -- September, October, the entire state administration is coming to me and telling me to give them the bill for 200 euros, 300 euros. "What are you gonna buy?" She asked. And they say, "We'll make a deal next year, you just give me the bill." Isn't that interesting? If I compare this data with other data, the budgets of that ugly Slovenia, Yugoslavia, those socialist ones, all from municipal to state, had the following provision: The rest of the funds on each item at the end of the year are transferred to the same item in the coming year. This is no longer in the budgets today. What did that mean? Each budgetary user has been committed to saving. I can give you a practical example. When I took over the police station Celje in October 1984, there were nine twelve money left over from last year, and I still had all the running money in stock. Everything was still in stock. One dinar, or whatever it was back then, didn't spend my predecessor. And I was at that moment, there was no public procurement, I could tell three of my four cops, take the money, raise the money, buy four golfs in Sarajevo and bring them in. Yeah, and we brought them in. And that's exactly what we're doing today. We force ministers, we literally force them to spend as much money as possible. But they're forced to do it. Look, I'm asking students what's the difference between one minister, whatever it is, and what's the difference between some CEO of a manufacturing company. One is competition, but we don't have it that way, and the other is what? In the money. What is the objective of the director of the production company? That he's going to make a profit. And the more he has at the end of the year, the more successful the company will be. Is that Mr. Jew's goal, or was that my goal in 2012, or is that the goal of any minister? No, no, no. The minister's goal is to "shoot" everything. And the smart minister of September is ordering his services to empty as soon as possible. Is that right? Yeah, let's just say that's what we all did. Now you're doing the same thing. Why? Because when the finance minister tells you then, it's a blockade, and now you can't pay any more bills, but you're done. And if you didn't spend your money, you won't get it next year. Not only are you not going to get it, you're going to get it less because you're told you didn't spend it last year, then you won't need it next year. See, it's a system that's the wrong system, it's a system that's a stupid system if you want. And this system needs to be changed in my opinion. It also applies to the representative, because the situation is clear with the representative anyway. If, within two months, the Government communicates a variety of data relating to the same period of time for 25,000 euros, then you know something has happened. Now I have no proof that this is true or not true, as Minister of the Jews says they misspoke. What can I do? I have to believe him. But I think it's wrong in the government that it's so superficial that they can't count these few numbers, because then it would be completely different. And what I think is very important is that the means of representation are the means of food and drink. End, end, end, end, end, end, end, end. Everything else is not a means of representation. Yeah, that's what the regulation says. And if we take that into account, then this consumption of ours is still questionable. But I'm going to conclude, because I think I have four more minutes to go on as a proposaler. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u213	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food and the proposer will be given the floor. The Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magi Food has the floor. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u214	Thank you, Madam President. Once again, welcome to the honourable Member and Members! Let me end up repeating two or three numbers. The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food planned €36 000 429 in 2015, realisation up to 30. 6. was 18 thousand 867 and up to 18. 9. Twenty-six thousand. In any event, I would also like to say that today's debate, as well as the developments of recent weeks, has in fact provided information on what it means to plan on a four-digit account, which is also planned for the purposes of the National Assembly when the budget is adopted, what does the difference between the guidelines and the continental plan mean? And these are the areas to be settled. I'd also like to say the following. Our ministry, as a whole budget, also revises the Court of Auditors every year. As far as our ministry is concerned, we did not get any recommendations for 2014 or some warnings about some major irregularities, which I considered to be the success of the ministry and the financial service. However, this debate has shown that more attention should be paid in essence not to recording, but then to the allocation of accounts to individual sub-contracts. All I can say is that from the first question forward, we are paying extra attention to this in the ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the floor as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u216	Thank you very much. This debate was simply because the Government of the Republic of Slovenia reported that the Ministry of the Jews had planned EUR 36 000 in the first six months and that it had spent 57 000 and some. That's the reason for this debate. On Friday, the government said it wasn't true that $18,000 was spent. If $18,000 is spent, then it's within normal limits. However, it is necessary to ask for the conclusion of how this is possible and how the Government of the Republic of Slovenia gathers this data together, because then you can no longer believe it in any matter. Now globally to conclude this, the funds for representation have been falling since 2009 and in fact dropped from 3 million 600 per million to half or more at this time, I stress most in the time of the government of Janez Janša and in the following by Alenka Bratušek. That's what you have to say. In the end, there are some, Mrs Banova, I think she said it was about a million and a half. No, it's not. A million 700s is last year's annual consumption. So the consumption is rising again. If such spending were to continue this year, it would not be a million 539 but it would be much more – there would be more €189,000. If our debate has encouraged ministers to see these items now a little bit lower, and to be careful that they are within the framework that they must be, then I think we have also achieved our purpose. Minister, I hope that those who are writing things will be drawn to your ears, I would, in the conveyance of the word, that no one will say that I encourage violence. That's one thing. The other thing I would like to say is that I would like a coalition, the leaders of the SMC Group are not here all day, but I hope that they will find out from you who are here, Mr Verbič you have every opportunity to tell her that you would like to simplify the use of funds on these representation items. It is not sustainable that, as I mentioned in the debate, the defence ministry has 195 thousand and the interior has 17,000. It's not about anything in the world. I can allow some possibility that Mr Erjavec has a specific issue with external matters, with diplomats and I don't know what to do, this has to be acknowledged, because you encouraged my performances to you. That's right. However, the comparison is absolutely between the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior. But here you have to admit it's a comparison. And the difference is too great: 17 internal and 195 defensive. This difference is definitely too big and shows it in the period that comes to balance somehow. However, there are consumers, who are even more unusually luxurious, education, as you know, the Service for Slovenians in place and around the world, this cohesion service with the Government, or what it is already called for EU funds. These are also the services we may have missed today, and they are very large consumers of this money. It wouldn't be right to let them go. Finally, I thank all those who have made this debate possible. My purpose as a proponent was not what some of you might have expected, but it is true that I was a little more keen on those who have been deceiving themselves and trying to justify a state that cannot be excused. If we draw some lessons from this for the future, which means a smaller use of these funds, a more accurate use of these funds, without keeping the ministries at their disposal, then our aim is likely to be achieved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-26-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u217	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. However, since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 12th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Good night.
